Report No. PIC3943
Project Name                      Zimbabwe-Rural District Council (@+) ...
Pilot Capital Development Project
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Economic Management
Project ID                        ZWPA45029
Borrower                          Government of Zimbabwe
Implementing Agency               Capacity Building Unit (CBU)
Department of Administration
Ministry of Local Government, Rural
and Urban Development
17th Floor, Mukwati Building
P. Bag 7706, Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Attn.: Mr. Ramson Mbetu, Coordinator
Telephone: (263-4)707428
Facsimile: (263-4)791441
Date this PID Prepared            February 11, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date          November 1997
Projected Board Date              May 1997
1.    Background. The Rural District Councils Act was passed in 1988
and became effective, through local elections, in 1993. This Act
created 57 Rural District Councils (RDCs) and replaced the former
District and Rural Councils. These former Councils were organized
along economic and racial lines, with Rural Councils administering
predominantly white-owned commercial farm lands and District
Councils the indigenous, communal lands. Amalgamation of these
former Councils into RDCs represents an historic reform. Zimbabwe
now has a representative local self-government structure that may
respond more effectively to the country±s development needs in
general, and to local communities in particular. This presents
high potential for efficiency gains (enhanced supply response in
local infrastructure and services) and for equity. The overwhelming
majority of Zimbabwe+s poor (88 percent) live in rural areas, with
communal farming areas containing 76 percent of the poor and 82
percent of the very poor.
2.    There are two parts of Zimbabwe+s basic development objective:
(a) generating more rapid and sustained growth and employment
expansion; and (b) expanding indigenous participation in the
economy to ensure that the benefits of development are widely
shared. To advance both of these parts, especially the second, the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD)
launched the RDC Capacity Building Program in November 1994. This
Program seeks to enhance the effectiveness of public sector reform
at the local government level, and the Government has requested
IDA+s support in its implementation.



3.    Rationale for IDA Involvement. IDA participation at the RDC
level is particularly timely. First, there are strong indications
that the Government plans to decentralize increasing expenditure,
and perhaps also financing, responsibilities to local governments,
including critical areas such as health, education and
infrastructure. Without the institutional and financial capacities
to absorb new responsibilities at the local level, decentralization
initiatives may be inefficient from the perspective of service
delivery efficiency, as well as destabalizing during a period of
fiscal retrenchment. The proposed project would provide an
opportunity for IDA to support not only RDC capacity building and
infrastructure financing, but also to contribute to the dialogue on
decentralization and intergovernmental fiscal policy across sectors
and between levels of government in the context of fiscal
sustainability. Second, the project would enable IDA to support
implementation of an interesting RDC planning and implementation
process that has the potential for strong community participation
and accountability. The RDC Act mandates a committee structure, and
each council must have, among others, a Ward Development Committee
(WADCO) for each of the Wards (generally about 20-40 wards per
RDC). In turn, each WADCO has representation from each Village
Development Committee (VIDCO) within its jurisdiction. The WADCO is
responsible for preparing and submitting its ward development plan,
incorporating VIDCO and other interests, to its RDC. Finally, the
RDC is responsible for consideration of all ward plans, and
preparation and implementation of district development plans. RDC
capacity building should strengthen this process of community
participation.
4.    It is important to note that the Government has already
launched the Capacity Building Program and is committed to its
expansion. The effort has attracted significant donor support
(UNDP, UK, Netherlands, Sweden). The project identification mission
(February 1996) reviewed the overall Capacity Building Program, and
it is sound. IDA therefore has been invited to participate in an
on-going effort. IDA+s support to the program is viewed widely as
critical to its success, primarily for two reasons: (a) to provide
investment funding as an incentive or +reward+ for institutional
and human resource strengthening (financed by donors) on a broad
and substantial scale; and (b) to bring international best
practices to the policy dialogue on decentralization and
intergovernmental fiscal relations, a dialogue that currently is
fragmented on a sectoral basis and is not grounded in sound fiscal
policy.
5.    Link to the Country Assistance Strategy. In order to achieve
the basic development objective noted above, the Country Assistance
Strategy focuses on four basic groups of implementation
instruments: (a) macroeconomic management; (b) incentives and
support to private sector growth; (c) infrastructure to support
growth and expand economic participation; and (d) human resource
investment, safety net provisions and capacity building. The
proposed project would support capacity building and infrastructure
financing in the newly formed RDCs. The Government expects to
expand the role of local governments in public service delivery.
- 2-



IDA+s support to the new RDCs should strengthen the breadth and
depth of its assistance across several sectors over time.
6.    Project Objectives. The overarching objectives of the project
are: (a) to promote efficiency and equity in the delivery of
sustainable RDC services; and (b) to promote enhanced local
governance, especially with participation of the poor. The project
would be the first involvement of IDA with RDCs and the first
substantial support by IDA for rural infrastructure in Zimbabwe.
Thus, it is expected that the overall credit will be relatively
small, and that each individual investment to be financed will be
simple and modest so that the project may quickly promote
operational lessons learned for future projects. These lessons
learned, combined with the policy component (see para. 7), should
also support the objectives of other Bank initiatives.
7.    Project Description. The Government+s RDC Capacity Building
Program currently comprises three components: (a) institutional
development; (b) human resource development; and (c) capital
development. The Government of the United Kingdom already is
funding the institutional development component. The Governments of
Sweden and the Netherlands are expected to provide partial funding
for the human resource development and capital development
components, with support beginning before July 1997. The Government
has requested the Bank+s support in providing more substantial
funding for the Capital Development Component. This IDA-financed
component is expected to provide grant and loan financing to
eligible RDCs, and it is considered instrumental to the overall
capacity building effort, as benefits of institutional
strengthening include RDC investments (e.g., water, roads,
community facilities) that would not have been possible without the
Capacity Building Program. Finally, the IDA-financed project would
introduce a critical policy component to the Program. The
Government and IDA have agreed to include an analysis of
sustainable financing of local government expenditure
responsibilities (current responsibilities as well as potential new
ones). This study should include expenditure responsibilities, tax
(and tariff) assignment and rate setting authority,
intergovernmental fiscal flows, and sustainable financing of local
government capital improvements programs.
8.    Implementation Plan. At the national level implementation
responsibility will rest with the MLGRUD, and at the local level
with eligible RDCs. Implementation arrangements will be detailed in
the Project Operational Manual. This will describe the relationship
between the MLGRUD and the RDCs, including: RDC eligibility
requirements for access to funding from the Capital Development
Component of the RDC Capacity Development Program; appraisal
procedures for RDC funding requests (including environmental
analysis, where necessary); financing and flow of funds
arrangements (including linkages to the Public Sector Investment
Program, if required, and onlending terms and conditions when
appropriate); procurement and auditing requirements; the Ministry±s
institutional arrangements for implementation, monitoring and
control of the project; arrangements for: the project+s Special
- 3-



Account, including disbursement procedures; and monitoring and
reporting requirements of the Bank. Preparation of the manuals
should be facilitated greatly by the experience of the MLGRUD under
the Urban I and II projects (see next section).
9.    Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience. The proposed
project would be the Bank+s first involvement with rural
infrastructure in Zimbabwe. However, the Bank has a long track
record of support to Urban Councils, beginning with the Urban I
project (Ln. 2445-ZIM, approved in June 1984) and continuing with
the ongoing Urban II project (Ln. 3079-ZIM, expected to be
completed in December 1998). A key lesson learned has been that
Zimbabwe+s local governments have the capacity to respond to
incentives and support to improve their performance. In the case of
the newly formed RDCs, the current capacity level is fragile and
must be strengthened over time.
10.   Project Sustainability. The sustainability of RDC investments
is at the heart of the Government+s Capacity Building Program. The
proposed project will seek to support sustainable RDC service
delivery capacity in two basic ways: (a) the policy component noted
in para. 7 above; and (b) RDC participation eligibility
requirements to be laid out in the project+s Operational Manuals
(para. 8) to serve as instruments for structured learning over the
medium term.
11.   Program Objective Categories. Capacity Building; Policy
Reforms.
12.   Project Financing.   Total project cost is estimated at US$ 19.75 million, with the
following sources of financing: RDCs, US$ 0.50 million; IDA, US$ 12.25 million; and
Cofinancing, US$ 7 million.
13.   Environmental Aspects.   The project is expected to have neutral or positive
environmental impacts. Rural infrastructure investments to be financed (e.g., water
supply, sanitation, roads, community facilities) are expected to be quite small, and
focused on rehabilitation or expansion of services that generally improve the quality of
life, and environment, of the rural population. However, the MLGRUD+s project
implementation unit should have the capacity and authority to screen proposed investments
for environmental impact, with impact assessments required where necessary.
Annex available upon request from the Public Information Center
Contact Point:             Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily
be included in the final project.
- 4-



Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 28, 1997
- 5 -



