Document of
the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
Report No. 16046-ZIM
Staff Appraisal Report
ZIMBABWE
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
May 5, 1997
Country Department 3
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of FebrUary. 1997)
Currencv Unit - Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
USS 1.0   = ZS 11
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC         =     Association of Rural District Councils
CAS          =     Country Assistance Strategy
CBCC         =     Capacity Building Coordinating Committee
CBU          =     Capacity Building Unit
CSO          =     Central Statistical Office
DDG          =     District Development Grant
DDL                District Development Loan
EIA          =     Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR          =     Economic Rate of Return
GoZ                Government of Zimbabwe
HRD          =     Human Resources Development
ICB         =      International Competitive Bidding
IDA          =     International Development Association
IEIA        =      Initial Environmental Impact Assessment
IRWSS        =     Integrated Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
LGDP               Local Government Development Project
MET          =     Ministry of Environment and Tourism
MLGRUD    =        Ministry of Local Government Rural and Urban Development
MoF          =     Ministry of Finance
NGO          =     Non-Governmental Organization
ODA                Overseas Development Administration
PA                 Provincial Administrator
PDC         =      Provincial Development Committee
PDSP         =     Pilot District Support Project
PSIP               Public Sector Investment Program
PST          =     Provincial Support Team
RDC          =     Rural District Council
RDCCBP    =        Rural District Council Capacity Building Program
SIDA        =      Swedish International Development Agency
TC           =     Technical Co-operation
UN,DP              United Nations Development Program
VIDCO              Village Development Committee
WADCO       =      Ward Development Committee
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
1997/98: July 1, 1997 - December 31, 1998
1999 and thereafter: Januarv I - December 31
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo, AFR
Country Director:    Barbara Kafka, AFC03
Technical Manager:   Jeffrey S. Racki, AFTU I
Task Team Leader:   James Hicks, AFTUI



ZIMBABWE
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. INTRODUCTION .............1.I
II. THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SECTOR                              .2
A. Zimbabwe's Local Government Structure                  .2
B. Roles and Responsibilities of Rural District Councils (RDCs)    .3
C. RDC Financing                               .4
D. Key Issues                                .5
E. Strategy for the Local Government Sector               .6
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement                     .7
G. Linkages to the Country Assistance Strategy              .8
III. THE RDCCBP PROGRAM AND THE RDC PILOT PROJECT                      .8
A. Program Origin and Participatory Design Process           ..8
B. Objectives                               ..9
C. Program Description           ..10
D. RDCCBP Program Implementation    ..16
E. RDCCBP Program Costs    ..20
F. RDC Pilot Financing Plan         ..22
G. Project Disbursements          ..22
H. Procurement    ..25
1. Accounts and Audits .26
J. Economic and Financial Analysis .27
K. Environmental Analysis          ..29
L. Poverty and Social Impacts        ..30
M. Risks and Safeguards          ..30
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .31
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.    LogFrame and Key Performance Indicators .33
A. RDC Pilot Capital Development Project
B. RDC Capacity Building Program
2.  Project Implementation Schedule .53
3.  Environmental Analysis .55



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                           Page No.
4.       Summary of Costs and Financing Plan ...............................................    65
5.      Draft Table of Contents for Project Implementation Manual .................................. 67
6.      MLGRUD's Policy Letter on Decentralization ...............................................   71
7.      Proposed Auditing Arrangements ...............................................           95
8.      Selected Documents in Project File ...............................................      100
MAP  IBRD #28388
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions that visited Zimbabwe in July/August 1996 and
November 1996. The missions comprised James Hicks (Task Team Leader, AFTU I), Claudia Sadoff
(Economist, AFTUI), Shobha Shetty (Economist, AFTU 1), David DeGroot (Local Government Specialist,
Consultant) and Chris Banes (Municipal Engineer, Consultant). Negotiations were held in Harare during
February 1997, with the Bank Team comprising James Hicks, Claudia Sadoff, David DeGroot, Chris
Banes, Steve Gaginis (Disbursement Officer), Raj Soopramanien (Lawyer), and Colleen Butcher (Local
Government Specialist, Bank Resident Mission in Zimbabwe).



ZIMBABWE
RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL PILOT CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       Zimbabwe
Beneficiaries:                  Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban
Development (MLGRUD);
All 57 Rural District Councils (RDCs)
Poverty Category:               The project would contribute to poverty reduction
by enhancing the quality, quantity, and cost-
effectiveness of basic services (e.g., improved
transport and access to markets, improved health
and education, and access to water and sanitation) in
rural areas.
Amount:                         SDR 8.9 million (US$12.25 million equivalent).
Terms:                          Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
including a 10-year grace period.
On-Lending Terms:               RDCs (for District Development Loans only):
Prevailing Public Sector Investment Program onlending
rate, currently 13.5% p.a., to be adjusted annually;
payable in up to 12 years (for plant and equipment); 25
years (for infrastructure); and 30 years (for community
facilities).
Financing Plan:                 IDA - US$12.25 million; Dutch - US$3 million;
SIDA - US$4.0 million; RDCs - US$0.5 million;
Economic Rate of Return:        Not applicable.
Memorandum of the President:   Report No. P-7057-ZIM
Map:                            IBRD 28388
Project Identification Number:   ZW-PA-45029






Staff Appraisal Report
Zimbabwe
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01  The project presented for approval is part of a larger and longer term program.
This program is the Rural District Council Capacity Building Program. Henceforth, this
larger program is cited as RDCCBP as it is widely referenced within the Government of
Zimbabwe. For purposes of presentational clarity, the project presented for approval, the
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project, will be cited as RDC Pilot.
1.02 As will be explained in detail below, the RDCCBP is an ongoing Program
composed of three components: Institutional Development; Human Resources
Development; and Capital Development. The Government has requested Bank support
for funding of a part of the Capital Development Component which will begin a five year
program of investment in July 1997, corresponding with the beginning of GoZ financial
year 1997/98.
1.03  Because of the mutually reinforcing nature of the three components of the
RDCCBP, this appraisal covers the entire RDCCBP for the full five-year implementation
period. At Government's request, the RDC Pilot is dimensioned to finance part of the
Capital Development Component for the initial period from July 1997 to December 1999.
The Government has requested that the Bank then provide unified support to all local
authorities in Zimbabwe through the proposed Local Government Development Project
(LGDP), building on the lessons learned and policy dialogue to be achieved under the
RDC Pilot and the ongoing Urban 11 project (Loan 3079-ZIM) which is scheduled for
completion in December 1998. The LGDP is expected to provide investment financing
for about five years and will provide a vehicle of broad support to promote
decentralization and reform in all of Zimbabwe's local authorities.
1.04 In Chapter III, The Program and the Project, Sections A-E present the RDCCBP
Program, including Origin, Objectives, Description, Implementation Plan, Costs and
Financing Plan. Sections F-I present specific arrangements for the RDC Pilot, covering
Project Financing Plan, Disbursement, Procurement, Accounts and Audits. Finally,
Sections J-M analyze the Economic, Environmental, Poverty and Risk aspects of both
RDCCBP and the RDC Pilot Project.



2
II. THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SECTOR
A. Zimbabwe's Local Government Structure
2.01 At Independence in 1980 Zimbabwe inherited a system of local government
sharply divided on racial grounds. The system consisted of, on the one hand, Rural
Councils and Urban Councils for the white settler population and, on the other, African
Councils (later District Councils) for the majority black population. Furthernore, the two
types of local authority had different parent ministries, with Rural and Urban Councils
coming under the Ministry of Local Government and Town Planning, whilst African
Councils came under the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
2.02 Since independence the Government has been committed to the establishment of a
unified local government system, to replace the racially based dual system inherited from
the previous regime. The 1988 Rural District Councils Act provided the legal basis for
the amalgamation of the two previous types of councils into a Rural District Council. The
amalgamation process involved various changes in administrative boundaries, in council
structures and procedures, and also the amalgamation of the two local authority
associations into a single Association of Rural District Councils (ARDC). In
implementing these changes both the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban
Development (MLGRUD) and the ARDC received considerable donor assistance,
particularly from the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), in the field of
training and consultancy.
2.03  The intention of Government in establishing the RDCs was not only to
amalgamate the two types of local authority but also to strengthen the role of local
government in rural areas. Therefore, as part of the preparations for their establishment,
MLGRUD, with financial support from SIDA, set up a special consultative body known
as the Forum for Rural Development, to facilitate 'strategic dialogue' between major
stakeholders concerned with amalgamation and rural local government in general. Over a
three year period (1991-94), the Forum addressed a number of key policy and legislative
issues and sponsored several studies on ways of increasing both the functions, resources
and capacity of the new RDCs. The Forum commissioned consultancy studies for: Road
Planning, Construction and Maintenance; District Health Provision; Education Service
Provision; Financing of RDCs; and a Strategic Plan for RDC Capacity Building.
2.04  The reports of most of these studies are still under discussion, although the
Strategic Plan for RDC Capacity Building has now been adopted by the government and
forms the basis upon which the current national RDC Capacity Building Program has
been designed.



3
2.05  The creation of a unified system of rural local authorities was formally achieved
in 1993 with the implementation of the RDC Act, five years after its promulgation. The
amalgamation of all the rural authorities into Rural District Councils signals an important
attempt to decentralize the system of governance, opening the door to a major shift in the
management and provision of local services in rural areas from central to local
government.
2.06  Each RDC falls within the territory of one Province. There are eight Provinces
with RDCs within them-- the ninth and tenth Provinces are special cases of the national
capital, Harare, and the second largest city in the country, Bulawayo, which have both
City Council and provincial status. Provinces are territorial jurisdictions of the Central
Government. Provincial Governors are appointed by the President, and each has a seat in
the national parliament. The provincial administrative structure includes offices of line
ministries, with these under the overall supervision of the Provincial Administrator who
is appointed by the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
(MLGRUD). Some line ministry offices extend down to the District level, and these are
supervised by the District Administrator, also appointed by the MLGRUD. The District
Administrator chairs the Rural District Development Committee (RDDC), and this
Committee is charged with the responsibility of preparing and monitoring annual and
long-term district development plans. The annual district development plan is approved
in a joint session of the RDDC and the RDC. Although the RDC holds a prominent
position in the RDDC, the RDDC also includes all district heads of sector ministries. At
present, there is some debate about the role of traditional leaders in the RDDC.
2.07  The RDC Act mandates a committee structure, and each council must have,
among others, a Ward Development Committee (WADCO) for each of the Wards
(generally about 20-40 wards per RDC). In turn, each WADCO has representation from
each Village Development Committee (VIDCO) within its jurisdiction. The WADCO is
responsible for preparing and submitting its ward development plan, incorporating
VIDCO and other interests, to its RDC. Finally, the RDC is responsible for consideration
of all ward plans, and preparation and implementation of district development plans.
These plans are the primary input of the RDCs into the annual district development plans
approved by the RDDC. I
B. Roles and Responsibilities of Rural District Councils (RDCs)
2.08  The RDC Act provides a legal basis for RDCs to assume responsibility for a
number of key service areas. These include: overall development planning, education,
I     Additional information on the planning and administrative structures of Provinces and
RDCs may be found in A. H. Helmsing, "Transforming Rural Local Government: Zimbabwe's
Postindependence Experience", Environment and Planning C: Government and Policy, Vol. 8
(1990), pp. 87-110 and in The World Bank, "Rural Community Infrastructure: Building on the
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program", Report No. 11096, June 1993.



4
health, water supply and sanitation, housing, roads and bridges, natural resource
management, commercial development, and urban land planning and management.
However, it is not yet possible to state precisely which functions RDCs will be
responsible for in the future as the division of roles and responsibilities between central
and local government is still being negotiated. The likelihood is that rural service
provision will continue to be the dual responsibility of central and local government.
Furthermore, even if RDCs take the lead for those functions listed above, many of them
lack the skills and resources required, giving added impetus to the formulation of a
national capacity building program.
2.09  The current capacity of RDCs to tackle the 64 tasks which the 1988 Act enables
them to undertake is extremely varied, reflecting the different human, financial and
physical resources inherited by RDCs from their predecessors. Moreover, the natural
resource and economic bases of the RDC areas are extremely heterogeneous. Therefore
needs, and the ability of RDCs to meet them, also vary significantly. However, on the
basis of evidence from field experience and consultancy studies, a number of key
weaknesses and gaps common to most RDCs can be identified. These can be classified
into two groups: first, financial and human resources, as well as lack of vehicles and
equipment; and second, organizational characteristics, involving leadership qualities and
the organization's sense of mission, management systems and structures, and the degree
of discipline, openness and accountability within the organization.
C. RDC Financing
2.10  The financial base for RDCs is currently as follows.
a) Central government grants which include a per capita grant from the
ministry of education, an expenditure grant from the ministry of health and a
small administration grant from MLGRUD. RDCs also receive small grants
from the Natural Resources Board for activities related to land conservation.
b) A range of local revenue sources including development levies, unit taxes,
license fees, service charges, beer levies, royalties and revenue from income
generating projects.
c) Various public sector programs channel capital investment funds to RDC
areas through sector ministries.
d) Various loans are available, including from the National Loans Fund, the
Central Rates Fund and the General Loans Fund, but these are not easily
accessed by most RDCs.
2.11  RDCs are generally dependent on government grants, although the picture is
variable. In some cases grants make up more than 60% of total RDC income, although in
most cases the figure is around 40%. Administration grants, on average, make up about
35% of RDC administration expenditure; education grants make up about 50-60% of
education expenditure while health grants make up almost 90% of health expenditure.



5
2.12  In recent years central government grants have decreased as a proportion of total
RDC income, implying an increased importance for local revenue. However, RDCs are
far from assuming fiscal autonomy and this situation will not change in the near future.
Fifty percent of RDCs surveyed for the Strategic Plan for Capacity Building had local
revenue of less that Z$3 million in 1993/94, and 56% did not have sufficient local
revenue to meet recurrent expenditure.
2.13  There are several reasons for this. First, the revenue raising powers available to
RDCs are limited in number and in terms of their revenue raising capacity, since most
significant powers rest with central government rather than local authorities. Second,
central government exerts considerable influence over the level of revenue raised by
RDCs. Third, many RDCs do not use their existing revenue raising powers as effectively
as they might due to poor understanding of their rights and poor financial management.
Finally, in many RDCs the scope for increasing local revenue is limited because of few
opportunities for economic development and therefore low levels of income for the
majority of the population.
2.14  RDCs should play a significant role in implementing capital development at
district level. A survey by the consultants engaged for the Strategic Plan for Capacity
Building found that in 1993-94, 19% of RDCs surveyed spent no money at all on capital
development while a further 43% spent less that Z$0.5 million. Furthermore, 36% of
RDCs spent no money on road maintenance while another 47% spent less than Z$ 1.0
million, and this includes RDCs with commercial wards where local authorities are
responsible for road maintenance.
2.15  This low level of capital expenditure is due to the fact that although funds for
RDCs are available from a number of sources, the amounts given tend to be very limited.
Most government and donor funds for capital projects, with the exception of some
Integrated Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (IRWSS) projects, are channeled through
line ministries rather than RDCs. Few RDCs have the resources necessary to fund capital
projects; indeed many cannot finance their own recurrent budgets. There is no access to
loan facilities, other than housing development loans which have sometimes been beyond
the capacity of poorer RDCs to repay. Some RDCs have been granted borrowing powers
by central government mainly for housing schemes at growth points, Rural Service
Centers or small towns. However, the majority of the RDCs have yet to qualify for these
loans.
D. Key Issues
2.16  The key issues confronting RDCs derive from two main sets of circumstances.
First, the reorganization of responsibilities and authority inherent in Government's
decentralization program present RDCs with a variety of ambiguities related to
manageable priorities for service delivery. Transfer of responsibilities and resources to



6
RDCs and other levels of local government should be undertaken in accordance with a
coherent strategy founded upon a broad consensus. Government has taken significant
steps during the past 12 months to establish such a strategy, but the multiplicity of central
agencies involved in the decentralization process--and the obvious vested interests
inherent therein--necessarily entail a gradual approach to consensus building. Therefore,
a key factor in clearly defining a national decentralization strategy will be the degree to
which RDCs can accept new responsibilities and provide required services on a sustained
basis.
2.17  This raises the second set of key issues relating to RDCs' capacity to plan,
implement and manage delivery of infrastructure and services. In the general absence of
such capacity, consensus is unlikely to form among central agencies that meaningful
decentralization should be undertaken. On the other hand, the installation of such
capacity within RDCs in the absence of significant resources would be both a fruitless
and frustrating enterprise. Further, given the diversity of existing capacities and priorities
for local development among the country's RDCs, a monolithic approach to capacity
building would be inefficient and, in many cases, nonresponsive.
2.18  Thus, the key issues are to link tailored capacity building within RDCs with
access to resources in order to establish the strategic areas upon which a responsible
program of decentralization should focus. In turn, these efforts at the local level must
feed into the national consensus building process in order that transfer of central
responsibilities, authority and resources is carried out in a manner which will lead to
more equitable, sustained development.
E. Strategy for the Local Government Sector
2.19 MLGRUD and the Bank are in full concurrence as to the appropriate assistance
strategy, given the key issues as discussed above. This strategy explicitly recognizes that
RDCs are a key target for capacity building in support of the decentralization process, but
that continuing support to other local authorities must also be provided in order that the
entire local government sector is empowered to play its fullest, most efficient role in
promoting national development. For this reason the overall sectoral strategy emphasizes
coordinated support to all local governments in Zimbabwe, including capacity building,
access to capital resources and policy reform. The proposed RDC Pilot project will, as
explained in Chapter I, provide capital to complement capacity building over an initial
two year transitional period. During this period, the ongoing Urban II project will be
completed and the proposed Local Government Development Project (LGDP) will be
designed, with implementation initiated to provide continuing support to the entire local
government sector in Zimbabwe.
2.20 The proposed project would extend the Bank's involvement with Zimbabwean
local government to include the 57 Rural District Councils. This new and highly
complementary initiative will build upon the Bank's long track record of support to



7
Urban Councils, beginning with the Urban I project (Loan 2445-ZIM, approved in June
1984) and continuing with the ongoing Urban II project (Loan 3079-ZIM), expected to be
closed in December 1998. A key lesson learned has been that Zimbabwe's local
governments have the initiative and capacity, given adequate support, to improve their
performances and assume increasing responsibilities as a key part of the decentralization
process.
2.21   The Government announced a significant and comprehensive decentralization
policy in July 1996. Under this policy, local governments--particularly RDCs--are to
gradually receive significant additional infrastructure and service delivery
responsibilities, as well as additional financing responsibilities. Although the
Government's policy statement represents a consensus across all ministries on
decentralization policy objectives and principles, implementation details remain to be
worked out. A key element of the Bank's assistance is support to implementation of the
policy, ensuring that international experience is brought to the benefit of Zimbabwe's
decentralization process.
2.22  In summary, the strategy for the local government sector is to build on lessons
learned from past and on-going initiatives, to support the Government in its sensible
decentralization policy, and to initiate a new series of projects. This series would be
initiated by the proposed RDC Pilot and followed by the LGDP. The strategy is designed
to support (i) policies agreed with the Government, (ii) local government strengthening,
and (iii) the sustainability, efficiency and equity of infrastructure and services
increasingly under the responsibility of local governments.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.23  Without the institutional and financial capacities to absorb new responsibilities at
the local level, decentralization initiatives may be inefficient from the perspective of
service delivery, as well as potentially destabilizing during a period of fiscal
retrenchment. The proposed project would provide an opportunity for the Bank to support
not only RDC capacity building and infrastructure financing, but also to contribute to the
dialogue on decentralization and intergovernmental fiscal policy across sectors and
between levels of government in the context of fiscal sustainability.
2.24 Government already has launched the RDC Capacity Building Program and is
committed to its expansion. The effort has attracted significant donor support (UJNDP,
UK, Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark), and the Bank has been invited to participate in
an on-going effort. The Bank's support to the program is viewed widely as critical to its
success, primarily for two reasons: (a) to provide investment funding as an incentive for
institutional and human resource strengthening (financed by other donors) on a broad and
substantial scale; and (b) to bring international best practices to the policy dialogue on
decentralization.



8
2.25  Given both its long-standing involvement with local governments in Zimbabwe
and its broad experience in supporting decentralization throughout the developing world,
the Bank is uniquely positioned to play a catalytic role in supporting the emerging
decentralization process in Zimbabwe. The commitment of substantial bilateral support
for "soft" capacity building activities will allow Bank funding to be focused upon its
most appropriate application: capital investments. At the same time, the wealth of Bank
experience in comparable decentralization exercises will assist Government in
winnowing out the most efficient courses to be followed in defining Zimbabwe's way
forward. In short, the combination in Zimbabwe of central government commitment,
local authority willingness, bilateral support and clear focus for application of Bank
resources presents a strong rationale for Bank involvement.
G. Linkages to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
2.26  The 1994 CAS focused on four basic areas, including infrastructure to support
growth and expand economic participation, and human resource investment and capacity
building. The proposed project would support capacity building and infrastructure
financing in the newly formed RDCs and is thus clearly consistent with the current CAS.
A new CAS is to be presented to the Board in late May 1997. The new CAS calls for
more selective support of the Government's development goals. One of the key features
of the assistance strategy is greater use of pilot operations and adaptable project designs.
The proposed project is a strong example of this, a pilot project incorporating innovative
procedures to facilitate disbursements and promote learning-by-doing which will provide
the Government with important lessons in the process of decentralization. The new CAS
also highlights areas of focus for Bank efforts, including rural development and the
development of human capital, both of which are supported in the proposed project.
III. THE RDCCBP PROGRAM AND THE RDC PILOT PROJECT
A. Program Origin and Participatory Design Process
3.01  The RDCCBP is a direct outgrowth of an extensive series of policy reforms,
analyses, and pilot projects undertaken in Zimbabwe over the last seven years following
issuance of the 1988 Rural District Councils Act. At the core of these actions has been
the incremental approach taken by GoZ in articulating its decentralization policy which,
for the rural sector, found particular focus through the Forum for Rural Development.
3.02  This Forum, which operated during the period 1991-94 under the leadership of
MLGRUD with SIDA and Ford Foundation support, examined key areas in which RDC
capacities and functions could be manageably expanded. Studies were undertaken in:
a) Road planning, construction and maintenance;



9
b) District health provision;
c) Education service provision;
d) Financing RDCs; and
e) Strategic planning for RDC capacity building
3.03  MLGRUD complemented these policy studies with the initiation of the Pilot
District Support Project (PDSP) in 1989 with ODA support in the Midlands province.
The explicit purpose of PDSP was to test the degree to and pace at which improvements
could be achieved in RDCs' capacity to plan, implement and manage infrastructure and
service delivery. PDSP was, by 1994, judged to be a conspicuous success with the two
pilot RDCs developing the capacity to successfully implement 69 infrastructure projects
worth about US$820,000. Projects ranged from shallow wells valued on average at less
than US$1,000 to district clinics requiring more than US$30,000 in capital investment.
Under this project the RDCs worked successfully through a variety of implementing
arrangements, including community-led initiatives, contracting out, force account, and
implementation through line agencies. PDSP placed significant emphasis upon planning
to achieve sustainable investments, with the result that in mid- 1996 all 69 of the
infrastructure projects funded under the project were in operation and being maintained
typically through contributions from the RDC and local residents.
3.04  With full amalgamation of all RDCs in 1993 and building upon the successful
pilot project, MLGRUD has now moved to expand capacity building to include all RDCs
in the country. Under the umbrella of the interministerial Capacity Building
Coordinating Committee (CBCC), bilateral donors have demonstrated exemplary
coordination in providing two years of support to the Capacity Building Unit (CBU) in
MLGRUD which has carried out a systematic process of consultation with all RDCs and
Provinces in designing the RDCCBP.
B. Objectives
3.05 Within the context of government's overall decentralization program, the
objective of the RDCCBP is to develop the capacity of all RDCs to plan, implement and
manage the sustainable delivery of essential services. To achieve this objective, the
program is explicitly designed to support learning by doing through the combined
provision of institutional development support, human resources development inputs,
and capital and material resources necessary to directly implement infrastructure and
deliver services.
3.06  With the recently completed amalgamation of Zimbabwe's 57 RDCs, there exists
for the first time in the country's history a complete framework of accountable,
representative local authorities.2 This historic juncture presents Zimbabwe's first realistic
2     In addition to the RDCs, the local government system includes, in ascending order of
complexity and authority, Town, Municipal and City Councils.



10
opportunity to pursue a comprehensive decentralization agenda, and the RDCCBP is
designed to support this agenda by focusing its assistance as directly as possible on the
RDCs with Provincial level oversight. Ministerial input will, in turn, be focused on
overall program management and policy reform.
3.07  Given the wide variance of human, financial and material resources existing in the
RDCs, the program is designed to promote significant capacity improvement in all RDCs
over the course of the RDCCBP (see Key Performance Indicators of Annex 1). As a way
to "level the playing field" all RDCs will receive equal amounts of District Development
Grants over the first two years of RDCCBP implementation (see Section C below).
Thereafter, performance evaluations and poverty indicators will influence the magnitude
of block grants available to councils, setting the stage for broader intergovernmental
fiscal reform.
3.08  Key outputs expected under the program include:
a) improved RDC planning, appraisal, implementation and technical supervision
capacity;
b) improved financial management and accountability;
c) enhanced financial positions including improved local revenue generation;
d) increased community participation in planning, implementation and management
of development activities;
e) improved provision and maintenance of economic and social infrastructure, and
associated poverty reduction;
f) enhanced public transparency and accountability of councilors and officials; and
g) lessons leading to increased public/private partnerships in funding, implementing
and managing infrastructure and service provision.
3.09 It must be emphasized that the overall program philosophy is one of learning by
doing. This philosophy inherently assumes that mistakes will be made, analyzed and
rectified to the ultimate benefit of participating RDCs and their constituents. While
experience gained from previous projects such as PDSP and the Bank-assisted Urban I
and II will clearly be of assistance in guiding RDCCBP implementation, the RDCs
themselves will be entering uncharted waters in many respects and unforeseen outcomes
are to be anticipated.
C. Program Description
3.10  The entire RDCCBP is described below, although initial Bank financing will be
limited to a portion of the capital financing required during the two years of
implementation corresponding to GoZ financial years 97/98 and 1999.3 The program
3     The Government of Zimbabwe has changed its designation of the fiscal year from July-
June, to the calendar year. The transition will be made by extending the fiscal year 97/98 to the



11
consists of the i) institutional and ii) human resources development components
complemented by iii) the capital development component. The component financing
amounts presented in parentheses estimate the entire financing requirement for the
RDCCBP, including local counterpart, bi-lateral donors and the World Bank.
Institutional Development Component (US$ 17.04 million)
3.11  The institutional development component of the program will support
improvements in the capacities of RDCs to plan and sustain priority services and facilities
in response to the demands of the more than 8 million Zimbabweans resident in RDC
jurisdictions. This component, full funding for which has already been approved by
ODA, will fund 215 person years of Zimbabwean consultancy input, 34 person years of
expatriate input, studies and equipment acquisition.
3.12  Provincial Support Teams (PSTs) have been deployed for five years beginning in
October 1996 in all eight of the provinces that include RDCs. PSTs will support the
legally mandated Provincial Development Committees, and they will consist of a team
leader and, on average, four facilitators with each facilitator servicing about two RDCs.
The PSTs will work with RDC and provincial staff to facilitate improvements in
planning, implementation and management processes. Each PST will, for the first three
years, include one expatriate organizational development specialist, and the PSTs, in the
course of the learning by doing process, will identify specific human resource weaknesses
to be addressed through the human resources development component.
3.13  Support will also be provided to the Capacity Building Unit (CBU) for five years.
The CBU, located in MLGRUD and reporting to the CBCC, provides overall program
coordination and management. Two additional expatriate advisors will be attached to the
CBU to assist in these tasks.
3.14 This component of the program will also finance acquisition of basic equipment
necessary for particularly the most disadvantaged RDCs to achieve a minimum
acceptable level of logistical capacity. Funding is also available for consultancy inputs in
preparation of the proposed Local Governnent Development Project, including a
beneficiary assessment of Urban II to ensure that lessons learned under that project are
incorporated in future project designs.
3.15  Finally, this component includes financing for a baseline and longitudinal impact
assessment which will be managed by UNDP. This assessment will monitor
improvements in RDC planning, management and finance as well as impact of capital
investments.
1 8-month period July 1997 - December 1998. Beginning in 1999, the fiscal year will coincide
with the calendar year.



12
Human Resources Development Component (US$ 4.12 million)
3.16  This program component is designed to build capacity to provide continuing
human resource development assistance to RDCs and to respond to specific needs arising
in the RDCCBP implementation process. In MLGRUD assistance will focus upon the
Manpower Development Section of the Department of Local Authorities Administration.
Key activities will include development of a clear RDC Training Policy, establishment of
a training needs data base, liaison with other ministries and national training institutions,
support to provincial and district training officers and establishment of staff development
systems.
3.17  At the Provincial level this component will assist capacity development of
Provincial Manpower Development and Training Officers and support formation of
Provincial Training Teams to deliver basic skills and functional training courses for
RDCs. These teams will work in close coordination with the PSTs.
3.18  At the District level this component will identify basic needs and supply required
training including Training of Trainers for District Training Teams. At the Sub-district
level the component will promote the formation of local networks including government,
local government and NGOs to promote community participation in the planning,
delivery and maintenance of local development projects. This aspect of the component
will require close coordination with the proposed Community Development Project to be
implemented, with BANK assistance, under the country's Poverty Alleviation Action
Plan.
3.19  Agreement is expected to be reached with SIDA for funding of this component in
the second quarter of CY 1997, with implementation to begin soon thereafter.
Capital Development Component (US$75.59 million)
3.20 The Capital Development Component is designed to a) provide all 57 RDCs with
access to grant funds necessary to reequip and reinitiate critical service and infrastructure
provision and b) create incentives for improved RDC performance. This component is
critical to ensure that capacity is not built in a resource vacuum, and that RDCs are able
to maximize their learning by doing experiences through actual project implementation.4
4     The British Overseas Development Administration (ODA) has provided considerable
support for the design of the Capital Development Component. Under the Memorandum. of
Understanding, dated February 7, 1996, between the British Development Division for Central
Africa and the Bank's identification mission for the RDC Pilot and the LGDP, ODA has
supported component design consultancies by Conyers and Hlatshwayo and by Gunby (noted
below), as well as an international consultancy for an evaluation of the Urban II implementation
with a view to improving future support to local government. This evaluation includes the
project's impact on implementation institutions, both of the central Ministries and Urban
Councils, and a beneficiary assessment among beneficiary households.



13
The component consists of two types of capital assistance (grants and loans) and of
technical assistance for implementation of the Government's decentralization policy. Of
the US$ 75.59 million financing requirement estimated for this component under the
entire RDCCBP, US$ 19.75 would be provided under the RDC Pilot, with the
Governments of Sweden and the Netherlands expected to provide US$ 7 million (para
4.01). The remaining financing for the last three years of this Component's
implementation (US$ 55.84 million) is expected to be obtained under the Local
Government Development Project (see Sections E and F below).
3.21  District Development Grants (DDGs, US$ 47.59 million) will provide each of
the 57 RDCs with up to US$ 0.25 million for each of the first two years of the project
(GoZ FY 1997/98 and 19995) for productive investments in equipment and
infrastructure.6 Access to these block grants will be predicated upon RDCs' submission
of approved development plans and engagement of qualified senior officials. Beginning
in FY2000, performance criteria, to be agreed during the first two years of
implementation, will be brought into play to determine the level of block grants each
RDC will receive. This innovation will feed into the process, to be pursued more directly
under the proposed LGDP. of establishing an equitable and sustainable revenue sharing
system (including block grants based on RDC poverty levels and own-source revenue
potential) to promote Government's decentralization objectives.
3.22  The anticipated level of funding required for DDGs over the five year life of
RDCCBP has been detailed in a consultancy report commissioned by MLGRUD with
ODA support (Conyers and Hlatshwayo, 1996). This report estimated three scenarios
under which RDCs' capacity to responsibly absorb DDGs would occur. The scenario
related to a medium level of performance improvements is summarized below:
Medium Performance Scenario (Z$ m)
Year        Avg. per RDC             Total
1                1.0                57.00
2                1.5                 85.50
3                1.341               50.76
4                1.877               71.05
5                2.627              99.47
Total              8.345             475.65
5     The Government of Zimbabwe has changed its designation of the fiscal year from July-
June, to the calendar year. The transition will be made by extending the fiscal year 97/98 to the
18-month period July 1997 - December 1998. Beginning in 1999, the fiscal year will coincide
with the calendar year.
6     The value of DDGs expressed in Zimbabwe dollars will depend on the relative
currency exchange rates of the ITF Credit, Swiss Kroners and Dutch Gilders. For
planning purposes, this "basket" of financing is assumed to result in an "average"
exchange rate of US$ 1.0 = Z$ 10.



14
3.23  A second report sought to establish the priority areas for investment by RDCs of
the proceeds from DDGs (Gunby, 1996). This study utilized questionnaires to determine
the top three priorities of RDCs for transfer of functional responsibilities, as summarized
below:
Function                    % of RDCs
Roads                          56.6
Water and Sanitation           53.3
Health                         33.3
Education                      20.0
Income Generation              16.6
Physical Planning              13.3
Land Acquisition               13.1
Financial Management           10.0
Housing Construction           10.0
3.24  The emphasis of RDCs upon functional control over and increased investments in
roads and water related infrastructure is reflected in reported RDC priorities for
utilization of DDGs. A high percentage of DDG investments, at least in the first years of
RDCCBP, is expected to be devoted to acquisition of maintenance equipment,
particularly in RDCs which did not inherit significant stocks of equipment from pre-
amalgamation Rural Councils.
3.25  The balance of DDG investments is likely to be mainly devoted to small scale
infrastructure and rehabilitation of existing social facilities. In addition, each RDC will
be required to devote at least 10 percent of each annual DDG to community based
projects, in conjunction with the Human Resources Development Component's focus
upon sub-district community planning and mobilization.
3.26  All aspects of DDG operations will be codified in the Project's Operational
Manual. Adoption of the final version of this manual will be a condition of credit
effectiveness, and the manual will be incorporated by reference in the credit agreement
3.27  District Development Loans (DDLs, US$ 27.50 million) are the second
financing mechanism included in the Capital Development Component of the program.
The DDLs have been designed to meet the needs of the more efficiently managed RDCs
which already have demonstrated capacity to manage loans and require larger amounts of
development capital than are available through the DDGs.
3.28  The Conyers and Hlatshwayo study estimates that 17 RDCs are currently
"bankable" in terms of financial management capacity, revenue bases, prior experience
with borrowing and several other relevant criteria. Surveys of these RDCs indicate a high
demand for loan funding over the life of RDCCBP, as follows:



15
Estimated Loan Requirements of Currently Bankable RDCs (Z$ m)
97/98 1999  2000  2001  2002         Total
91.8  59.5  52.7  98.6  44.2         346.8
The high year one demand for loans again reflects the need for RDCs to replenish their
seriously depleted stocks of maintenance equipment.
3.29  Given the capacity building objective of RDCCBP it is important to include a
lending facility in the project. The overall decentralization objectives of Government
correctly emphasize that all local authorities in the country must begin to mobilize
additional sources of finance for local infrastructure development and service delivery.
However, the emphasis on learning by doing in RDCCBP indicates that a gradual
approach to RDC borrowing will be prudent, allowing time to ensure that credit
management capacity is well developed.
3.30  Therefore, the Capital Development Component will include a relatively modest
provision of US$ 4.5 million for lending to bankable RDCs in the first two years of
program operation. Performance will be carefully monitored and lessons learned will be
incorporated in the proposed LGDP design.
3.31  The procedures governing lending under RDCCBP will build upon systems
established within MLGRUD as part of the Urban II Project including the standard
borrowing capacity and project appraisal procedures and documentation. Lending will
follow terms established for the Public Sector Investment Program (as agreed under the
Urban II Project), with repayment periods not exceeding: 12 years for plant and
equipment; 25 years for infrastructure; and, 30 years for community facilities. The
onlending rate shall correspond to the rate established for Public Sector Investment
Program loans, which, at mid-1996, was 13.5% p.a. (para. 4.01). The procedures for
lending under the RDC Pilot will be regulated in the Project Operational Manual that also
applies to DDGs, with the important addition of the borrowing capacity analysis and
documentation. This manual will be finalized and agreed with the Bank as a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 4.42).
3.32  Decentralization Policy Support (US$ 0.50 million). This element of the Capital
Development Component will support, over the first two years of RDCCBP operations,
development of critical policies required to sustain implementation of Government's
decentralization agenda. The support would be channeled to the existing CBU and would
address the agenda defined in the Government's Decentralization Policy Letter (see
Annex 6). Response to this agenda will focus largely upon three key areas, to be
addressed at a mid-term review to be held not later than October 31, 1998.
3.33 First, international experience in successful (and unsuccessful) intergovernmental
fiscal reform will be examined (through workshops and strategic consultant inputs) and
strategies will be identified for potential application in the Zimbabwean context. A key



16
area of concern will be the development of revenue sharing mechanisms which wean
local authorities from dependence on central budgetary support over time while taking
into account equity and incentives for improved performance. Proposals will be
examined and agreed as part of the proposed LGDP design process.
3.34 Second, other areas of intergovernmental relations of importance to fostering local
authority autonomy will also be examined. Particular emphasis will be placed upon--
again, in line with stated Government policy--opportunities for increasing private sector
participation in the financing and provision of key services and infrastructure. Other key
areas will include improved utilization of state lands and other centrally owned assets in
local authority jurisdictions and the critical relationship between bulk and retail water
supply.
3.35  Finally, close monitoring of the RDC Pilot implementation process for RDC
investment financing will be undertaken. This monitoring will include compliance with
the process arrangements agreed with the Bank through the Project Operational Manual,
as well as financial audits for all project accounts for fiscal years 1997/98 and 1999.
Details are provided in paras 3.59-3.60 and in Annex 7.
D. RDCCBP Program Implementation
3.36 To achieve maximum benefit, the program's key components must be
implemented in a highly coordinated manner, and the management structures to achieve
this goal are well established, very well staffed and highly experienced. Figure 1
demonstrates the program management structure. The CBU has been in place and
functioning for two years and five years of continuing support are already assured
through ODA.
Implementation Arrangements
3.37  Recruitment of provincial support teams has been completed and the PSTs have
been in place since October 1996. Bilateral support for the HRD component is expected
to be finalized in mid-CY97 with fielding of all key staff expected soon thereafter. All
provincial level development committees are well established. A few of the 57 RDCs are
still recruiting key professional staff and MLGRUD expects that all necessary
appointments will be finalized by mid-CY97. Sub-district structures are also fully
established in RDCs. Figure 2 charts the key RDCCBP organizational relationships at
the provincial, district and sub-district levels. Annex 2 summarizes the project
implementation schedule. The draft table of contents for the Project Implementation
Manual is provided in Annex 5.



FIGURE 1
RZDC CAPACITY }BUILDING PRZOGRAMME
INSTITUTIONAL DEVE-LOPMENT PROJECT - PRtOJECT STRUCTURE
CABINET COMMITTEE
ON
DECENTRALISATION
WORKING PARlTY ON
DECENTRALISATION
C.B.C.C
Int erminister al
Commit tee
C.B.U.
Project Co-ordination
Wulolucil Co-oldinaulor
1- CiBU Persolnel
2 CBU TC FacilIlatols
Provincial    Provinclal    Provincial    Provincicil    Provtnctail    Plovtnclal   Piovinclal    Prov Iliclat
Suppoil Team   Suppoil Team  Support Team   Support Team   Support Team    Supporl Team   Suppoil Team  Support Team
Toam Leuder  Team Leador   Team Leader  Team Leador  Team Loader  Team Leader  Team Leader   Team Leader
I Facililalors  + Facililalors   + Facililalors  + Facililalors  -1 Facililalois  + Fcicalilalors  + Facilikliloas   I F'uCilitulogs
Plovincial TC   Provincial TC   Provinclal TC   Provincial TC   Provincial TC   Plovincial TC   Provincial TC  PIovincial TC
Facililalor   Facililalor   Facililalor   Fcicililallor  Facilikilor  Fcicililllor   Fa'cilitato   Facrirlutol



FIGURE 2
RDC CAPACITY BUILDiNG PROGRAMME - ORGANISATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS
AT PROVINCIAL AND DISTRICT LEVEL
Provincial           Sector
Crouincial                                                 Development          Ministries
Commillee          aIt Province
Sec tion/ 
Provincial Suipport             ._
T . _  ,e,a,,v,0
Provincial TC
Facilitalor
Ruxal D                                     .            Rural 1) lti cl        Seclor
Councli)lsrc                                               Developmen       -    Ministires
Cot ncil \ I # s Comm~~~~~Corniilt                       e       at District
DA's Olffce
Distlict
Training Officer
Sub District                                                    Existing Organisational Relationships
Institutions and
Slructures                                                     PSTFacilitaion lelationsljips



19
FIGURE 3
RDC CA.PACITY BUITLDING PROGR~ILM
INS7TIOVNAL DEOPPT COMPCNT -
FOP-MAL MONTORING STRUCTURE
ANXNUAL 'PR=VE,_
REVIE  MhaN                  T          SECTOR 
\~~~~~~~~R Vf>CA w                  V MISTRZ J
SUPPORT                        \         /t \   M>, ,INGS P
workiPRO C                    A
SIX MON1'HLYPAs Office &
qr.lEsSV M;i =-.ING   * -SECTOR
,  --  P ROVENCL^LPR
NG  &E                                          TPF-   RTC
SIX MONTHRLY                           DsOfc&
R-rVM-EV MhNG    <SCO
N sR
DISTRICT                    ecresents --aws 
COUNCa          |.r.ts.rnct n



20
3.38  The program's monitoring and evaluation system has been well designed and is
summarized in Figure 3. The Provincial Development Committees, with support from the
PSTs, will monitor RDC activities on a continuing basis. Formal semi-annual reports
from RDCs to provinces will summarize progress made and problems encountered. The
CBU will assemble all monitoring inputs at the national level and annual reviews
including all participating donors will be carried out by the CBCC. Key performance
indicators are summarized in Annex 1.
3.39  SIDA support has been arranged for the placement of a local government project
development facilitator in the Harare resident mission. This local consultant assumed her
duties in January 1997 for a two year period. Among other responsibilities, the facilitator
will utilize RDCCBP monitoring outputs to produce a complementary assessment of the
impact of the Capital Development Component of the project which will receive Bank
support.
3.40 Finally, ODA has provided funding for a UNDP-managed baseline and
longitudinal project assessment activity. This contract was awarded in November 1996
and will be in place for the duration of the project.
Project Operational Manual
3.41  Administration and financial management manuals for all RDCs have been in use
for several years. Bank review of these documents has established that they are well
conceived and thorough.
3.42  Preparation of the Project Operational Manual governing the Capital
Development Component of RDCCBP implementation is well advanced. It will provide
specific eligibility criteria to receive District Development Grants and Loans, project
identification and appraisal procedures, procurement, disbursement and implementation
guidelines, and monitoring and evaluation processes. Regarding District Development
Loans, the Manual will include the standard borrowing capacity appraisal procedures and
onlending terms and conditions which have been developed under the Urban II Project.
The full content of the Manual was agreed at negotiations, and it will be incorporated by
reference in the Credit Agreement. The Project Operational Manual will be finalized and
agreed with the Bank, and its adoption, along with the Project Implementation Manual,
will be as a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 4.02).
E. RDCCBP Program Costs
3.43  The total program cost is estimated at US$96.75 million including all
contingencies, as summarized in Table 1 below. Cost estimates for the institutional
development component are drawn from the approved ODA financing plan for this
component. Estimates for the HRD component are drawn from the final project proposal



21
and may, therefore, be subject to slight adjustments when the bilateral support agreement
for this component is finalized.
3.44  Estimates for the DDG element of the capital development component are, for the
first two years, based upon Z$2.5 million for each of the 57 councils. For years three
through five, the DDG costs reflect assumptions related to imposition of performance
criteria. For the loan element of this component, annual figures have been derived by
making cautious assumptions related to the absorptive capacity of RDCs versus expressed
demand. Cost estimates for years three through five for both the grant and loan elements
will be revised based upon experience and incorporated in the proposed LGDP.
3.45  Bank financing under the program will, at least for the first two years, be limited
to the capital development component. In years one and two the Bank will finance a
portion of the DDGs, all of the DDLs, and the decentralization policy support item under
this component.
Table 1. Summary of RDCCBP Program Cost Estimates (Five Years)
(US$ million)
A. Institutional Development
Provincial Support Teams             5.84
Capacity Building Unit                1.20
Technical Cooperation                5.83
RDC Equipment                        3.29
Monitoring and studies               0.78
Audits                                0.10
Subtotal                                   17.04
B. Human Resources Development
Equipment                             1.97
Workshops                            0.69
Needs Assessment                     0.21
Basic Training                       0.57
Sub-district training                0.68
Subtotal                                    4.12
C. Capital Development
District Development Grants          47.59
District Development Loans           27.50
Decentralization Policy Support       0.50
Subtotal                                   75.59
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                          96.75



22
F. RDC Pilot Financing Plan
3.46  The financing plan for the first two years of the capital development component is
presented in Table 2. It is assumed that partial funding for years three through five of the
capital development component of the RDCCBP will also be provided by the Bank
through the proposed LGDP.
3.47 The proceeds of the US$ 12.25 million Interim Fund credit for the RDC Pilot
Project would be made available to Government on standard IDA terms, for a period of
40 years, including 10 years grace. US$ 11.75 million or about 96 percent of the credit
would be passed on by Government to the RDCs as DDGs and DDLs. Repayment of
DDLs will follow standards established under Urban II (see para. 3.31), and incorporated
in the Project Operational Manual. The MLGRUD would provide evidence to the Bank
that the RDCs are effectively committed to the objectives and procedures of the
RDCCBP (with expression of this commitment through a Program Participation
Agreement). Participation Agreements between the MLGRUD and not less than ten
RDCs should be duly executed as a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.02). The balance of
US$ 0.50 million will be allocated to MLGRUD for decentralization policy support and
monitoring of the implementation of the capital development component.
Table 2. RDC Pilot Project Finance Plan (Two Years)
(US$ million)
Bank Dutch SIDA RDCs TOTAL
A. District Development Grants       7.25  3.00  4.00         14.25
B. District Development Loans        4.50              0.50   5.00
C. Decentralization Policy Support   0.50                     0.50
Total for Bank         12.25
RDC Pilot Total                                  19.75
G. Project Disbursements
3.48  The disbursement methodology to be adopted will play a key role in promoting
the program's capacity building and decentralization objectives, and in setting the stage
for broader reforms in the proposed LGDP. An essential element of Government's stated
decentralization policy is movement of public investment decision making and
management to the lowest appropriate levels in the country's political and administrative
apparatus. The RDC Act provides the legislated basis for RDCs to plan and execute a



23
wide variety of local public investments. Only through actual management of
procurement and disbursement will the RDCs develop real capacity to responsibly deploy
resources at the local level. However, the major constraint upon development of this
capacity has been the absence, in all but a few RDCs, of significant capital finance.
3.49  Therefore, disbursements for financing RDC investments in civil works and goods
will be made to Government against certification by the MLGRUD that (a) all
participating RDCs have annual investment plans appraised according to the Project
Operational Manual agreed with the Bank, and (b) the Government has approved the
project investment financing (District Development Grants and Loans) included in the
annual investment plans. In the case of District Development Loans, the certification by
the MLGRUD also should include the provisions that beneficiary RDCs have (a)
undertaken successfully the borrowing capacity assessment procedures developed under
the Urban II Project, and (b) deposited 10 percent of the total investment financing
requirement in the RDC Project Account.
3.50  Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements will be in accordance with the
Development Credit Agreement, and all procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
The specific flow of funds will be as follows: Funds intended for District Development
Grants (DDGs) will, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, be disbursed from the
Bank's Interim Fund (IF) Credit Account against fully appraised and approved DDG
project proposals drawn from each RDC's approved investment implementation plan.
The funds, in Zimbabwe dollars, will be transferred directly into a DDG Project Account
at the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD).
MLGRUD and the Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be notified of all such transfers.
Cofinancing funds from SIDA and the Dutch Government will also be deposited directly
into the same MLGRUD DDG Project Account, at which point the funds will be
commingled. MLGRUD will then disburse from the DDG Project Account into DDG
Capital Development Accounts set up by the eligible RDCs. The RDCs would then
disburse from the DDG Capital Development Accounts into DDG Operational Accounts
for implementation of specific projects. Disbursements from the Bank's IF Credit
Account into the DDG Project Account at the MLGRUD are anticipated to be made at the
beginning of each fiscal year (July 1997 and January 1999). Under exceptional
circumstances where appraisals for some sub-projects are incomplete at those times,
further disbursements could be made from time to time upon presentation of completed
appraisal and implementation plans. Additional disbursements will be clustered to
minimize the total number of annual disbursements, not intended to exceed three.
3.51  Funds intended for District Development Loans (DDLs) and consultancy
services will be disbursed from the Bank's IF Credit Account into a Special Account
established by the Ministry of Finance. At effectiveness, MLGRUD will submit a
withdrawal application to request US$ 500,000 to be deposited into the Special Account.
After a total of the equivalent of SDR 1.0 million has been disbursed from the Special
Account (approximately two full replenishments of the Special Account) the limit of the



24
Special Account will be raised to US$ 1.0 million. Replenishment of the Special
Account at the MoF will be made upon evidence of DDL approvals and disbursements
from the DDL Project Account at the MLGRUD. Statements of loan expenditures will
not be required for replenishment of the Special Account. They will, however, be
required for project supervision and auditing. Upon request by MLGRUD, the MoF will
disburse funds from the Special Account, in Zimbabwe dollars, into a DDL Project
Account at the MLGRUD. For financing of Decentralization Policy Support, MLGRUD
will disburse directly from the DDL Project Account for consultancy services. To
finance DDLs, the MLGRUD will disburse from the DDL Project Account into DDL
Capital Development Accounts set up by the eligible RDC's. The RDCs will then
disburse from the DDL Capital Development Accounts into DDL Operational Accounts
for implementation of specific projects.
3.52  Experience gained during the two year period of disbursements to be financed
through the credit will inform design of the proposed LGDP. Successful implementation
of this disbursement method is expected to support Government's intentions to gradually
reallocate resources from line ministries to local authorities through block grants for
reasonable local expenditure purposes.
3.53  The estimated disbursement schedule is presented in Table 3. All expenditures
eligible for Bank financing are net of taxes and duties. Currently, RDCs are exempt from
payment of taxes and duties for expenditures financed by international development
assistance institutions.
Table 3. RDC Pilot Estimated Disbursement Schedule
World Bank Fiscal Year (US$ million)
% of Total
Expenditures
1998   1999        Total      to be Financed
District Development Grants     2.33    4.92       7.25             51
District Development Loans      1.80    2.70       4.50            100
Decentralization Policy Support    0.25    0.25    0.50            100
Annual Total by Fiscal Year     4.38    7.87       12.25
3.54  No retroactive financing will be required. Assuming that credit effectiveness will
be achieved by June 1997, the project completion date would be December 1999 and the
closing date would be June 2000.



25
H. Procurement
3.55  Procurement of equipment and civil works under the project will be specified in
the Project Operational Manual and will conform with MLGRUD's procurement
requirements for RDCs and with Interim Fund/World Bank guidelines. These procedures
have been used during implementation of the Urban II Project and have been satisfactory.
RDC investments to be financed under the project will be relatively small. Under the
DDG element of the capital development component no single procurement action by
RDCs is expected to exceed US$250,000 (equivalent to the maximum annual grant
value). Under the DDL element of this component no single procurement action will
exceed US$500,000 (the maximum amount any single RDC will be eligible to borrow in
the first two years) in value.
3.56  National shopping up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $570,000 equivalent,
may be utilized for procurement of goods up to US$ 30,000 in value, or such other lower
value as MLGRUD shall deem advisable. Works estimated to cost less than $20,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent,
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts. Goods up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $130,000 equivalent, and works, up to $350,000 equivalent in
aggregate, may be procured under community participation arrangements. Works that
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Procurement Guidelines, and costing
$3,500,000 equivalent or less in aggregate, may be carried out by Force Account.
National competitive bidding will be required for procurement of goods estimated to cost
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$3,700,000 equivalent, and of works estimated to cost less than $ 1,000,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,800,000 equivalent. Standard
Bidding Documents approved for use in the Urban II Project should be included in the
Project Implementation Manual. Procurement of (a) works valued in excess of US$1
million and (b) goods valued in excess of US$ 250,000 will be carried out in accordance
with standard Interim Fund/World Bank international competitive bidding procedures in
the unlikely event (e.g., pooling of equipment purchases by several RDCs, into a single
procurement at the provincial level) that these values are exceeded.
3.57 Management of the procurement process for eligible RDC civil works and goods
will be the responsibility of RDCs with oversight from the PSTs and the CBU in
MLGRUD. The broad experience gained by the MLGRUD under implementation of the
Urban I and II projects will provide valuable support for this oversight function.
Procurement schedules for each RDC should be prepared as part of the investment
planning process to be approved by the MLGRUD in accordance with the Project
Operational Manual. Prior Bank review of contracts for goods and works will be limited
to those procured under international competitive bidding procedures if such cases
emerge during implementation.



26
3.58   Consultant services which may be financed by the Bank under the
decentralization policy support element (to be managed by the MLGRUD) of the Capital
Development Component will be under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
in accordance with the Bank's latest Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The following
consultant contracts will be subject to prior Bank review in accordance with standard
practice: (a) contracts with firms or individuals costing, respectively, US$ 100,000 and
US$ 50,000 or more awarded on a competitive basis, (b) amendments to contracts not
originally reviewed but resulting in values higher than those specified in (a) above, (c) all
terms of reference, (d) assignments of a critical nature, and (e) single-source selection of
consulting firms.
Table 4. Procurement Method
(US$ millions)
Project                    National   Small      Comm.    Force
Elements   ICB  NCB        Shoppine  Works    Particip.  Account  Other    Total
Works             3.70                 3.50       1.00      4.65                12.85
(2.80)              (1.20)     (0.35)     (3.50)              (7.85)
Goods             4.30      1.70                 0.40                           6.40
(3.20)    (0.57)               (0.13)                         (3.90)
Consulting
Services                                                               0.50     0.50
(0.50)    (0.50)
Total             8.00      1.70       3.50       1.40      4.65       0.50     19.75
(6.00)    (0.57)    (1.20)     (0.48)     (3.50)    (0.50)    (12.25)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
1. Accounts and Audits
3.59 All RDCs are required under the 1988 RDC Act to submit to the MLGRUD
independently audited statements of accounts within nine months after the conclusion of
each financial year. These audited accounts will identify the expenditures made under the
capital development component of the program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. All
audits of the Special Account, the MLGRUD Project Account and all RDC Project
Accounts will be performed by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
3.60   Considering the decentralized arrangements for project implementation
(consistent with project objectives) the project also will require audits of implementation



27
performance, including: assessments of investment impact; RDC management
performance; RDC and financial accountability; and CBU financial management
performance. Details are provided in Annex 7. These expanded performance audits are
expected to promote not only the due diligence requirements of the Government and the
Bank, but also the "learning by doing" objective of the project through comprehensive
monitoring of procedures and results so that best practices may be disseminated, and
mistakes may be quickly identified and corrected. Full Bank financing of these audits
(including travel expenses related to them) is provided under the Decentralized Policy
Support element of the Capital Development Component and included under Consulting
Services in the procurement table. A formal stock-taking of project performance will
take place at a midterm review to be held not later than October 31, 1998.
J. Economic and Financial Analysis
3.61  The project is expected to benefit all 57 of the newly-formed RDCs through: (i)
greater efficiency and equity in the delivery of infrastructure services, (ii) enhancement
of decentralization of development planning, operation and maintenance responsibilities
of the RDCs, and (iii) empowerment of local communities by reinforcing the "bottom-
up" element of the district planning process. The impact of improved economic and social
infrastructure would be both to raise the quality of rural life and improve linkages/reduce
costs with local and provincial markets. Since the majority of Zimbabwe's poor (88
percent) live in rural areas, most of the benefits are expected to accrue to the poorer
sections of society.
3.62  The small and dispersed nature of most of the possible sub-projects under this
component coupled with the uncertainty regarding the exact composition of the capital
investments make it impossible to quantify its expected rates of return using traditional
cost-benefit calculations. In its stead, the benefits attributable to the typical sub-projects
are qualitatively described. Typical sub-projects that are the top priorities of many RDCs
include roads, water supply, education, and health and these are described below.
Roads
3.63  The benefits from rehabilitation of rural roads will result from vehicle operating
cost savings from reduced road roughness, benefits from savings in road maintenance
costs, savings in accident costs, and benefits in terms of avoided higher costs of later
reconstruction. Benefits will also be realized from time saving both of passengers and
vehicle operators. In addition, improved/new roads will result in increased access of
agricultural freight to markets, thereby potentially increasing farmers' incomes. There
will be considerable variation between different RDC road investments due to factors
such as terrain, level of economic activity, and population served.



28
Water Supply
3.64  The main direct benefits of providing rural water sources that are closer, more
reliable and more plentiful are savings in time and effort collecting water (especially for
women), a healthier, more productive rural population due to increase in quantity and
quality of water, improved health knowledge, better hygiene practices, and potential long-
term medical cost savings through reduction in water-borne diseases. The availability of
water could also lead to healthier livestock which are a critical socio-economic and
cultural element of rural communities. For example, livestock census statistics in Gokwe
district show that the Bungwa borehole funded under the PDSP has improved the general
health of the local livestock, increasing the calving rate and increasing the potential off-
take rate.
Education
3.65 The returns to investment in education generate various benefits. "In-school"
benefits include gains in the efficiency of the education system, per se. Out-of-school"
benefits include improvement of the income-earning skills of the students and benefits
that accrue to society at large beyond the project beneficiaries. A recent study7
has shown that returns to primary and secondary education in Zimbabwe are among the
highest in the region.
Health Clinics
3.66  Most indicators show that health outcomes in Zimbabwe are worse in rural than in
urban areas. The under-5 mortality rate in 1994 was 80 in rural areas compared to 63 for
urban areas.8 The most direct benefit of a health clinic in a community served by an RDC
is the time-savings in the distance traveled (in some cases over 100 kms) by local
residents to seek health care. Other potential benefits from such projects include: positive
effects of reduced morbidity and mortality on productivity (fewer days lost from illness
or disability, fewer worker days lost through premature death, less family time lost);
consumption benefits (increased output of unmarketed household goods such as wood
gathering, kitchen gardening etc., increased leisure, higher quality of life, reduced
suffering to individual and other family members); greater efficiency of the school
system, i.e., more efficient learning through saving of resources and higher future
productivity due to better physical and mental development; and reduced household
expenditures on medical care and supplementary food.
7     Psacharopoulos, G 1994. "Returns to Investment in Education: A Global Update", World
Development, 22 (9), pp. 1325-1343.
8     UNICEF, 1994. Children and Women in Zimbabwe: A Situation Analysis Update 1994



29
Cost Recovery and Sustainability
3.67 To ensure the sustainability of the RDC investments, the RDCs will be required to
demonstrate how the operation and maintenance costs associated with a sub-project will
be met. A sub-project like a school or health facility which requires GoZ financial and/or
manpower support in order to operate will only be eligible for funding if it has the
support of the relevant Ministry. Similarly, a project which will be operated and/or
maintained by the RDC itself will only be eligible if the RDC can demonstrate how it will
obtain the funds required to meet the recurrent funds thereof. Projects will also have to be
properly appraised to ensure that the option chosen is the least-cost option, and that it is
viable and justifiable. The Operational Manual requires that at least 10 percent of the
grant be used to fund projects initiated and implemented entirely or largely by local
community groups or organizations which will foster a greater sense of ownership among
the project beneficiaries, thus contributing to the sub-project's sustainability. As required
by the RDC Act, the district plan from which the sub-projects are derived are based on
ward-level plans which in turn are based on some form of village-level plans. This is to
ensure local-level participation in their preparation, a requirement that in conjunction
with the community-initiated projects discussed earlier will enhance the project's overall
sustainability.
3.68  Finally, benefits associated with the institutional development and human
resources development components include: (i) Providing a framework for improved
efficiency and effectiveness in planning, financial management, transport management,
service provision, administration, co-ordination and teamwork; (ii) Increased local
revenue generation in terms of efficiency of collection from existing sources and the
development of new potential sources along with improving the fiscal and administrative
skills of the RDCs; (iii) Strengthening the local government sector as an instrument for
local decision making and influence of community residents; and (iv) Improved quantity,
quality and cost-effectiveness of services which should result in better living standards in
the communities served by the RDCs, and improved use of resources.
K. Environmental Analysis
3.69  The project is classified as environmental category B. The project focuses on
process, and the environmental analysis also needs to be process-oriented. Thus,
environmental analysis under the project will screen for possible environmental impacts,
and the capacity for this should be strengthened at the RDC and provincial levels. Annex
3 presents details of the environmental analysis, and these will be incorporated in the
Project Operational Manual.



30
L. Poverty and Social Impacts
3.70  In Zimbabwe, poverty is more prevalent in the rural areas (31 percent) than in
urban areas (10 percent), and the overwhelming majority of Zimbabwe's poor (88
percent) live in rural areas. Communal farming areas house 77 percent of Zimbabwe's
poor and 82 percent of the very poor (CSO, 19929 and World Bank, 199510). Economic
benefits derived from improvements in quality, quantity, and cost-effectiveness of
services (e.g., improved transport and access to markets, improved health, and access to
water and sanitation) to the rural population will thus accrue more to the poorer groups
than to the better-off. To the extent that the project contributes positively to stronger
rural development, the employment impact will also be positive.
3.71   Rural women in Zimbabwe are known to spend significant time fetching water,
some spending hours each day at the height of the dry season. If, as the initial beneficiary
surveys suggest, water and sanitation investments are a top priority for the grants and
loans provided under the RDC Pilot Project, the project should have a particularly
salutary impact on women's welfare.
3.72  The project will contribute significantly to GoZ's efforts to reduce rural poverty
by enhancing the provision of basic services. It is also expected to increase the
responsiveness of local authorities to the needs of the community and to encourage
greater community participation in the VIDCOs, WADCOs, and the District planning
process. The project will aim to create a greater sense of ownership on the part of local
communities for the projects that the RDC undertakes, thereby enhancing the cost-
effectiveness and sustainability of service provision. The project will enhance
accountability and transparency in the RDCs, enabling local communities to be better
informed on key issues affecting their welfare, and promoting good governance.
M. Risks and Safeguards
3.73  It should be recognized that this project presents significant risks. Political
commitment to decentralization and strengthening local self-government appears to be
strong now, but this may wane over time as political interests that stand to lose from
effective decentralization may delay or derail the decentralization process. Both the
Government and the World Bank will enter uncharted waters under this project, through
increasing rural local government responsibilities and accountabilities. The main
safeguard for this risk is the project's design as a pilot, with limited duration and credit
exposure. It is hoped that through the RDC Pilot Project the Bank may support significant
success stories, enhanced capacity in rural areas and legitimate constituencies for change
from a "top-down" control environment to one of local empowerment and accountability.
9     CSO (Central Statistical Office), Zimbabwe. Population Census. 1992
10    World Bank. Zimbabwe: Achieving Shared Growth. Country Economic Memorandum.
Macro, Industry, and Finance Division, Southern Africa Department. 1995



31
3.74  For a given investment in a particular RDC, the risks are relatively high that
resources will not be managed optimally, particularly in the early years. In fact, these
risks are inherent to the "learning by doing" process of the RDCCBP, and they should be
mitigated by the Provincial Development Committee approval and monitoring process in
general, and the presence of Provincial Support Teams in particular. Risks also should be
mitigated over time (assuming that political commitment to decentralization policy is
sustained) as lessons are learned and incorporated in the investment planning,
implementation, operation and maintenance process.
3.75  From the perspective of Zimbabwe's longer-term development, however, the
potential risks of this credit operation are commensurate with the potential development
benefits. The RDCCBP seeks to strengthen over time the quality and coverage of rural
infrastructure and services throughout the country. Mistakes will inevitably be made by
RDCs, but the program's design, incorporating lessons learned from the successful Pilot
District Support Project funded by ODA during 1989-95, seeks to incorporate mistakes as
lessons learned so that capacity is developed and that these mistakes are not repeated.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01  During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained.
a) Timely and appropriate financing for the RDC Capital Development Component will
be provided by the Governments of Sweden and the Netherlands (para. 3.20).
b) Proceeds of the credit used to finance District Development Loans will be onlent to
eligible RDCs under the same terms and conditions prevailing for development loans
under the Public Sector Investment Program (para. 3.31).
c) The Capacity Building Unit of the MLGRUD and the Provincial Support Teams in
each participating Province will be adequately staffed and supported for
implementation of project objectives (paras. 3.36, 3.37).
d) The project will be carried out in accordance with the Project Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, and it will not be amended without the Bank's prior consent
(para. 3.42).
e) The Government will open and maintain, in US dollars, a Special Account (para.
3.51).
f) Procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines (paras. 3.55 and
3.56).



32
g) The Special Account and all Project Accounts will be audited according to procedures
and with auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.59).
h) A midterm review will be held not later than October 31, 1998 (para. 3.60).
4.02 The following would be a Condition of Effectiveness.
a) The Project Operational Manual and the Project Implementation Manual would be
mandated by the MLGRUD and agreed with the Bank (para. 3.42).
b) DDG Participation Agreements between the MLGRUD and at least ten RDCs should
be duly executed (para 3.47).
Recommendation
4.04  With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable
for an Interim Fund Development Credit of US$ 12.25 million equivalent under standard
IDA terms and conditions.



33
Annex 1
LogFRAME and KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS



Annex IA
Page I of 3
Annex IA
RDC Pilot Capital Development Project
LogFrame and Proposed Performance Indicators
Narrative Summary               Performance Indicators          Monitoring and Supervision            Assumptions/Risks
POC/CAS:                                                                                              POC to Mission:
Zimbabwe Government achieves      More and higher quality services  Baseline and impact assessment    Positive economic growth.
efficient and effective           meeting priority needs of local   surveys, and other documents from
decentralization.                 people provided by RDCs; and      RDCs.
better quality services meeting
priority needs provided by sector
ministries.
Development Objective:            Impact/Outcomes:                                                    Development Objectives to POC:
Enhanced capacity of RDCs to plan,  1. Production of mission statements  Baseline and impact assessment  Sustained GoZ commitment to RDC
manage and sustain provision of   and corporate plans by RDCs.     surveys; 6 monthly CBCC,          capacity building and devolution of
priority services and facilities in  Improved policies and plans in  provincial and district review  decision making.
response to client needs.         RDCs.                            reports.
Positive economic growth.
e.g., 70% of RDCs produce rolling
plans with prioritized and costed
projects and programs related to
resource availability, based on
consultation with clients and
integrated with plans of sector
ministries at the district level by
1999; 100% by 2001.
2. Improved financial management
and local revenue generation.
e.g., 70% of RDCs produce annual
34



Annex IA
Page 2 of 3
Narrative Summary              Performance Indicators          Monitoring and Supervision           Assumptions/Risks
budgets on time by 1988; 100% by
2000.
3. Improved accountability and
transparency to rural electorate.
e.g., rolling plans reflect priorities
identified through village and ward
level workshops in 70% of RDCs
by 1997 and 100% by 1998.
4. More services provided, e.g.,
number and value of new capital
development projects carried out by
RDCs increases by 10% annually
from 1997 to 2002.
Output:                          T.O.R.                                                            Output to Development
Objectives:
1. Improvement in investment     1.1 Volume and timeliness of     1.1.1 Baseline and impact
planning and appraisal.         investment projects approved as   assessment surveys; 6 monthly    Institutional, Human Resources
satisfying OM standards.         CBCC, provincial and district    Development and Capital
2. Infrastructure and community                                   review reports.                  Development Components of the
facilities selected, appraised and  2.1 Projects receiving Completion                              RDCCBP are well coordinated.
constructed according to the     Certificates as per the OM.      2.1.1 Baseline and impact
Operational Manual (OM).                                          assessment surveys; 6 monthly    Progress in GoZ on future financing
3.1 Percent of projects deemed to be  CBCC, provincial and district  of local government and
3. RDCs more responsive to local   largely "community-driven",   review reports.                   implementation of decentralization
priorities.                      following the standards specified                                 policy.
for the earmarked 10% of DDGs.    3.1.1 Baseline and impact
4. Clarified and advanced                                         assessment surveys; 6 monthly    Adequate RDC recurrent
decentralization process.        4.1 Clarification of assignment of    CBCC, provincial and district  expenditure, through central grants
RDC responsibilities, local resource  review reports.             and local revenue base.
mobilization and transparent
revenue sharing arrangements.   4.1.1 Development and approval of
35



Annex IA
Page 3 of 3
Narrative Summary               Performance Indicators          Monitoring and Supervision             Assumptions/Risks
the Government's Decentralization
Policy Document
Components:                       Inputs/Resources:                                                   Components to Output:
Procurement records and 6 monthly
Identification, preparation and   District Development Grants to    CBCC, provincial and district     RDCs and community-based groups
appraisal of investment projects  eligible RDCs ($7.25m)            review reports.                   choose to participate in the Pilot
Project and fulfill requirements of
Support for the process of        District Development Loans to     Procurement records and 6 monthly  the Operational Manual
decentralization                  eligible RDCs ($4.5m)             CBCC, provincial and district
review reports.                   Acceptable projects are proposed
Consultant support to the                                          (i.e., projects with assured sources
decentralization process ($0.5m)  Procurement records and          for recurrent cost financing)
consultants reports
Total: $12.25                                                      Government remains committed to
continued decentralization
36



Annex IB
111)(  1111' Inslfifulionial II)ev'elopineull 1'roject: I'S'I's / CIItJ 1,og Fraiiic, january 1997                               Page I of 16
SUPER GOAL:  Sustainable Rural Developmenl indicted by: improvements In: rural welfare, greater awareness, literacy, health status, educational
allainnient, employmenl nd economic activity.
A          GOAL                           INDICATORS                 MEANS OF VERIFICATION                 RISKS I ASSUMPTIONS
Al. Improved, sustainable and
more responsive Local
Government and rural service
provision by RDCs and Line
Ministries
A2. Improved rural infrastructure
by RDCs and Line Ministries
A3. Improved rural Incomes
leading to:                     Evidence ot:
more services in relation to population; Departmental records and   Government will lurther develop Its policies
(a) Increased standards of living    belter quality services and higher  slatistics, social surveys,  and stralegies on decentralisation and RDC
afid a more aware, lilerate,    standards in terms of benefits to  feedback from users, minutes of   capacily building and will not reverse them.
healthy, economically           users, e.g. improved health services   meetings.
active and wealthy populalion in   and reduced incidence of disease;                                Government's macroeconomic policies will
areas served by ROCs;          improved educational facilities and                                  address current public expenditure problems
performance; improved access lo     Physical presence of            and result in sullicienl financial resources
A11 Appropriate and adequate    clean water supplies and sanitation;   improvements, e.g. clinics,  being made available to RDCs directly in the
role played by RDCs             improvements In transport and       schools, water points, sanitation   formn of equalised grants, or indirectly
communication networks; improved   facilities, roads, dip-tanks etc.  through increased revenue raising powers.
A. Appropriatendadequate agricultural performance, etc.
AB2 Appropfiate and adequate    Improved environment for economic                                   RDCs are committed to lmroln  sI
role played by Central Govt     development and employment.                                         toC thei constituents.   Iprvig services
A83 Appropriate and adequate
role played by Communilies,                                                                         RDCs are prepared to work in partnership
NGOs and Ihe Private Sector                                                                         with NGOs and Ihe private sector.
37



Annex lB
Page 2 of 16
Addilional functions will not be translerred lo
RDCs without adequate preparation and/or
grants for recurrent and'capital funding.
Additional responsibilities will not be loaded
on lo communilies without due regard to
Iheir capacilies.
Rural communities, NGOs and the private
seclor are aware ol their new roles and
committed to rural service provision. .
That NGO and Donor assistance does not
induce a cullure of dependency.
There is an adequately educated, informed
and paricipatory civil society prepared and
able to pardicipate in its own development.
The impact of improved services is not
undermined or negated by other factors
oulside the influence of the programme. e.g.
* natural disasters e.g. drought;
- population growth;
- political instability;
- economic collapse;
- adverse govemment policies especially
those affecting access to land, inputs,
agricultral markeling and the prices ol
basic commodities, and the participation ol
the private seclor,
- local tactors inhibiling access lo or benefit
from RDC services e.g. class struclures,
political conflicts etc.
38



Annex IB
Page 3 of 16
,       3OBJECTIVES                           INDICATORS                      MEANS OF VERIFICATION               RISKS / ASSUMPTIONS
81 Al District Level:
Enhanced capacity of RDCs to plan,
implement, manage and sustain district
development, and to enable provision and
mainlenance of rural services on a
sustainable and responsive basis. Includes
enhanced capacily in:
a) corporate planning                   Production of Mission Statements,     Policy documents, plans.        Additional functions will nol be
organisational and departmental      Minutes, reports.               translerred to RDCs without adequate
objectives, action plans, financial                                  preparation or recurrent and capilal
management plans or total corporate                                  lunding.
plans. Evidence ol advocacy regarding
RDC activilies.
b) integraled strategic and policy planning    Production of policy documents and  Policy documents, plans.   Government will provide Ihe
strategic plans.                     Minutes, reports.               necessary number and calibre ol stall
lo enable the Projecl to be
implemented.
c) project planning and implementation  Production of project and rolling plans    Project documenis,         Other siralegic components of the
containing realistic prioritised and  implementation plans. Minutes,    Capacity Building Programme i.e. the
implementable projects.              reports. Completion certilicates.   CDP and HRDP will be implemented
concurrently and with a compatible
approach.
d) moniloring and evaluation            Establishment and operationalisation of  M+E reports, records of physical   RDCs fill their core slaff positions with
MWE systems, regular reports.        and financial progress, completion  personnel of a basic minimum
certificates.                   polenlial, and whose altiludes are
flexible enough lo be open lo change.
e) co-ordination and leam-building      Establishment of eflective development  Minutes of meetings, reports,  RDC staff have basic conditions of
co-ordination syslems. Grealer       qualitative evaluation of meetings.  service which are not de motivating,
collaboralion belween ministries                                     and are receptive to PST inputs.
departments, RDCs, NGOs and the
private sector.
39



Annex 115
Page 4 of 16
1) linancial management                 Produclion of accurate budgets one   Audil reports                    RDCs have Ihe minimum amount of
month prior to end of financial year;  Annual budgets                revenue / linancial resources to
Production of end ol year accounts   Finance commillee meelings      lunction.
wilhin 3 months ol year end;         Montlily financial returns
Production of regular stalements for  Council minutes
commercial enterprises;
Produclion of linancial plans and cash-
flow forecasts
Production ol up to date asset
inventories and maintenance budgels;
Increased financial accountabiity.
g) revenue raising                      Generation of increased local revenue    Financial reports            Disirict personnel of seclor ministries
from exisling sources through improved   Council budgets             will co-operate with RDCs and are
efficiency and yield. Additional sources   Finance commillee meetings  allowed lo by Iheir head offices.
ol local revenue identilied, appraised
and implemenled.
h) management of essential services as    Effective management plans and     Plan documents                   RDC Councillors and staff understand
and when delegaled lo RDCs              operalional systems in e.g. health,  Minutes of meetings              the objeclives of capacity building and
education, etc.                                                      the approach being used.
i) general administiration and transport  Establishment of effective systems lor:  Minutes, records, personnel files,  All actors appreciate the implications
management                              personnel management, informalion    work programmes, vehicle log    of a learning process approach and
management, procurement and stores    books and record sheels, etc.  accept problems and mislakes as pan
management, transport resources,                                     of the leaming process.
ollice administration, etc.
j) promotion of democralic participalion and  Improved attendance at Council  Minutes of councils, wadcos,   NGOs and Ihe public seclor are willing
[he creation of a transparent accountable    meelings, more effective participation,   vidcos.               to suppor RDOCs in developing
administrative cullure                  more involvement of vidco, wadcos and   Records ol community         essential service management
traditional leaders in district      contributions.                  capacity
deveblpment, Increased self help and
local involvement in developmenl
projects. More demands by constituents
lor elficienl services.
k) sirengthening of civic and development   Improved confidence, ability and  Minutes, records of community   Govemrnment accepts the merits ol
institutions at sub disirict level     involvement of communilies in local   activily.                       consliluents demanding accountability
public affairs affecting service provision                           from RDCs.
and rural development.
40



Annex 113
Page 5 of 16
I) nelworking wilh NGOs and Ihe privale  Meetings and discussions wilh relevant   Correspondence, minutes etc.  Adequate stall exists in Dept Local
sector wilh regard lo rural service provision  instilulions and individuals.                                   Govt Adminisiration Head Ollice, and
they have time to devote attention to
RDC capacity building issues.
m) provision of essential infrastruclure  Physical and documentary evidence of   Completion certificales
improved ability to ensure the provision   Council records
of infrasiruclure.                    Field observation
n) crealion of a conducive environment for  Evidence of analysis of constraints on    Records, reports, minutes.
enhanced rural productivity              produclivity, proposals to remove or
relax conslraints, creation of incenlives
to local producers.
o) land Allocation procedures and land use   The production ol policies, guidelines    Minutes of meetings, written
planning                                and plans on 'land allocation and land  procedures, records, plans.
use planning.
p) formulation of policy and regulalions on   Policy discussions and the production of  Policy documents, natural
nalural resource ulilisation and enforcement  policy documents and regulalions  resource regulations, etc.
of Council Bylaws                        regarding natural resource use and
conservalion.
41



Annex IB
Page 6 of 16
B2 Al Provincial Level:
Enhanced capacity of Provincial level
institutions to support RDCs through:
a) Provision ol relevant RDC lacililation and  Linkages established with RDCHRDP.    Workshop reports          Other strategic components ol Ihe
training                                 Provincial and Disirict Training teams  Monitoring reports            Capacity Building Programme i.e. Ihe
established and running appropriate                                   CDP and HRDP will be implemented
training programmes.                                                  concurrently and with a compatible
approach.
b) Development and operalion ol Planning    Appropriale planning and budgeting  Minutes of PDC/PC meetings     All actors appreciate the implicalions
and Budgeling syslems for RDC           systems designed and operational,      Moniloring reports              of a learning process approach and
development projects.                   including structures and procedures and                                accept problems and mistakes as parl
a planning framework.                                                 of Ihe learning process.
c) Provision of policy guidelines, technical   Linkages and syslems established  Minutes of meetings           Provincial level staff of line ministries
and iinancial advice lo RDGs            between Provincial and District line   Field visit reports             with appropriate technical skills are in
ministries and RDCs lo allow regular  Monitoring reports              post.
liaison on technical and financial
elements of project design and
implementalion.
d) Development and promotion of coherent   Discussion lora established to discuss    Minutes, policy and strategy  National planning and finance
sirategies and programmes on            and prepare decentralisalion stralegies.   documents on decentralisalion.    ministries supporl provincial systems
Decentralisation                        Production of decentralisation sitrategies                             development. Provincial planning staff
and programmes.                                                       have lime and adequate expertise.
e) Co-ordination of govl, donor and NGO  Liaison, discussions and meetings with   Minutes ol meetings,         Provincial stall ot line ministries are
funded inilialives related to RDC       appropriate organisations and individuals. correspondence.             encouraged and willing to suppor
development and the promotion of linkages                                                                      RDCs in developing essential service
wilh the Privale Seclor                                                                                        management capacity as part ol their
work programmes.
I) Provision and dissemination of        Production and dissemination ol papers,  Discussion documents,
inlormation on RDC capacity building     information sheets on capacily building.  inlormation sheels, arlicles etc.
experiences throughout the Province.     Discussion workshops on capacity      Workshop reports.
building.
g) Establishment of Instilulional capacity    Effective monitoring systems established Minutes of meetings, workshop
monitoring syslems in each Province      to monilor implementation of RDCCBP,   reports
changes in RDC capacily, changes in
rural service provision.                        .
42



Annex IB
Page 7 of 16
Government will provide the necessary
B3 Al National Level                    MLGRUD plays a lacilitatory supporl role  GoZ Policy statements       number and calibre of stall to
in addition to its supervisory functions.   Minutes of Meetings      implement the Project.
Enhanced capacity of Nalional Level     MLGRUD in conjunction with olher      Reports
Institutions to support RDCs, in particular:   concerned ministries (e.g. NEPC, MoF,                          Other strategic components ot the
etc.) creates a suitable environment for                             Capacity Building Programme i.e. the
a) MLGRUD                               the operalions of RDCs including:      .                              CDP and HRDP will be implemented
- a clear strategy on decentralisation                               concurrently and with a compatible
b) the CBCC in terms ol the management    co-ordination ol decentralisation                                   approach.
and promolion of the RDCCBP and         - an elfeclive sirategy for the long term
Government policy on decentralisation and   linancing of RDCs.                                                Government accepts the merils of
rural development.                                                                                            constituents demanding accountability
from RDCs.
Relevant ministries are willing to
support RDCs in developing essential
service management capacity.
National planning and finance
ministries support systems
development. Stall have time and
adequate expertise.
All actors appreciate the implications
of a learning process approach and
accept problems and mislakes as part
ol the learning process.
Adequate stall exisis in Dept Local
Govt Administration Head Office, and
they have time to devote atlention to
RDC capacity building issues.
43



Annex lB
Page 8 of 16
C       ACTIVITIES / OUTPUTS                  INDICATORS                      MEANS OF VERIFICATION              RISK$ I ASSUMPTIONS
Cl Al District Level:
C1I PST Facilitation of RDCS to
enhance their capacity to plan,
implement, manage and sustain district
development, and to enable provision
and maintenance of rural services on a
sustainable basis. Includes facilitation to
enhance their capacity in:
a) corporate planning                  PST Facilitalor attendance at meetings   Minutes of meetings.        PST stall have appropriate
discussing corporate planning,       PST and Council records.       facililation skills or can develop
discussions with individual officers.  Correspondence.               Ihem.
PST Facililation Diaries and
records.
b) integrated strategic and policy planning   PST Facilitator attendance at RDC and   Minutes of meetings.  Government and NGO institutions
RDDC Meetings, meelings discussing    PST and Council records.      concerned wilh inslitution building in
stralegic and policy planning,       Correspondence.                RDCs are open to co-operate over
discussions with individual officers. PST  PST Facilitation Diaries and  co-ordinalion. PSTs have appropriate
Facilitator discussions with other aclors  records.                 networking skills.
in Ihe Rural Development Process
including NGOs and the Private Sector.
c) project planning and implementalion  PST Facilitator attendance at RDC and   Minutes of meetings.        RDCs initiate contact with PSTs and
RDDC Meetings, meetings discussing    PST and Council records.      are interested in capacity building.
project planning and implementalion,  Correspondence.
discussions with individual ollicers.  PST Facilitation Diaries and
records.
d) monitoring and evaluation           PST Facilitator attendance at RDC and   Minutes ol meetings.         RDCHRDP has been Initiated. PST
RDDC meetings discussing M+E,        PST and C-uncil records.       stall appreciale training approach
discussions with individual officers. PST  Correspondence.          and have training skills.
Facililator district visits with local  PST Facilitation Diaries and
olficers.                            records.
44



Annex lB
Page 9 of 16
Disirict personnel ol line ministries,
e) co-ordination and team-building        PST Facilitator attendance at RDC and    Minutes ol meetings.            NGOs etc are able to participale in
RDDC meelings discussing co-ordinalion  PST and Council records         training leanis.
and team building, discussions with    Correspondence.
individual officers. PST Facilitator   PST Facilitation Diaries and
district visits with local officers.   records.
I) linancial management                   PST Facililator attendance at RDC      Minutes of meetings.              Provincial planning and budgeting
budget meetings, meetings discussing   PST and Council records.          approach has been agreed at national
linancial management, discussions with   Correspondence.                 level. Key actors are willing to
individual officers.                   PST Facilitation Diaries and      participate and co-operate.
records.
g) revenue raising                        PST Facilitator altendance at RDC      Minutes of meetings.              District Technocrats are willing and
budget meelings, meetings discussing    PST and Council records.         able to share their expertise.
revenue raising, discussions with      Correspondence.
individual ollicers. PST Facilitator   PST Facilitation Diaries and
district visits wilh local officers.   records.
h) management of essenlial services as    PST Facilitator altendance at RDC and    Minutes of meetings.            CEOs have basic skills to play a
and when delegated lo RDCs                RDDC meetings discussing service       PST and Council records.          capacity building role and are allowed
provision, discussions with individual  Correspondence.                 to do so by DAs, the RDCs etc.
oflicers and other ministries. PST     PST Facilitation Diaries and
Facilitalor district visits wilh local  records.
officers.
i) general administration and transport   PST Facilitator allendance at meetings   Minutes of meetings.            RDCs are willing to monitor their own
management                                discussing general admin. and Iransport  PST and Council records.        capacity. Provincial Ministries
management, discussions with           Correspondence.                  committed lo the programme and to
individual olficers. PST Facilitator   PST Facililation Diaries and     work with RDCs lo effecl appropriate
disirict visits with local ollicers. PST  records.                      moniloring systems. PSTs have dala
Facilitalor visits to RDC workshop and                                  base skills.
stores.
j) promotion of democratic participation and  PST Facilitalor attendance at. Council    Minutes ol meetings.
the 'realion of a Iransparent accountable  Meetings, meelings discussing         PST and Courzil records.
administralive cullure                    participation, discussions wilh individual  Correspondence.
officers. PST Facililalor district visits    PST Facilitation Diaries and
wilh local ollicers.                   records.
k) strenglhening ol civic and development    PST Facilitator attendance at meetings   Minutes of meetings.
institutions al sub district level        discussing the involvement of civic    PST and Council records.
sociely, discussions with individual   Correspondence.
officers. PST Facilitator district visits    PST Facililation Diaries and
with local oflicers.                   records.



Annex 1B
Page IO of 16
I) networking with NGOs and the private  PST Facilitator attendance at meetings   Minutes of meetings.
seclor wilh regard lo rural service provision  involving NGO and privale sector  PST and Council records.
representalives, discussions with     Correspondence.
individual otficers. PST Facilitator  PST Facilitalion Diaries and
district visils with local oflicers.  records.
m) provision of essential infrastructure  PST Facilitator atlendance al RDC and    Minutes of meetings.
RIDDC meetings discussing the provision  PST and Council records.
of infrasiructure, discussions with   Correspondence.
individual ollicers. PST Facilitator  PST Facilitation Diaries and
district visits with local ollicers.  records.
n) creation ol a conducive environment lor  PST Facilitator allendance at meetings   Minutes of meetings.
enhanced rural produclivily             discussing how to improve the local    PST and Council records.
economic environment, and meetings    Correspondence.
involving NGO and private seclor      PST Facilitalion Diaries and
representatives. Discussions with    records.
individual olficers. PST Facilitalor
disirict visits with local olficers.
o) land Allocation procedures and land use   PST Fac0litator attendance at RDC and   Minutes of meetings.
planning                                RDDC meelings discussing land          PST and Council records.
allocation and land use planning,     Correspondence.
discussions with individual ollicers.  PST Facililation Diaries and
PST Facilitator district visits with local   records.
officers.
p) formulation of policy and regulations on   PST Facilitator attendance al RDC and   Minutes of meetings.
natural resource management and         RDDC meelings discussing nalural      PST and Council records.
enforcement of Council Bi Laws          resource use and conservation.        Correspondence.
Discussions wilh individual officers.  PST Facililulion Diaries and
PST Facilitator disirict visits with local   records.
officers.
46



Annex IB
Page 11 of 16
C       ACTIVITIES / OUTPUTS                   INDICATORS                   MEANS OF VERIFICATION                 RISKS / ASSUMPTIONS
C2 Al Provincial Level:
C2.1 PST Facilitation of Provincial
level institulions lo enhance their
capacity to support RDCs. Includes
facilitation to enhance provincial
capacity in:
a) Provision of relevant RDC facilitation  PST altendance at RDC Meetings,    Minutes of meetings.        PST staff can be relained.
and Iraining                            commillee and sub-commillee        PST and provincial records.
meetings. PST discussions with     Correspondence.
individual ollicers.               PST Facilitation Diaries and
records.
b) Development and operation of Planning   PST attendance at PDC planning and  Minutes of meetings.       PST staff have appropriate facilitation
and Budgeling syslems lor RDC           budgeling meetings. PST liaison with  PST and provincial records.  skills or can develop them.
developmenl projects.                   PA's Ollice, NEPC and DPP officials.  Correspondence.
PST Facilitation Diaries and
records.
c) Provision of policy guidelines, technical  PST discussions with PA's Office,    Minutes of meelings.   Government and NGO institutions
and linancial advice to RDCs including  PPOs NEPC, Ministries, RDCs,       PST and provincial rerords.    concerned with instilulion building in RDCs
lechnical appraisal of RDC projects.    Donors and NGOs with regard to     Correspondence.                are open to co-operate over co-ordination.
establishing co-ordinalion systems    PST Facililalion Diaries and  PSTs have appropriate networking skills.
andlor structures.                 records.
d) Development and promotion of coherent   PST discussions with PA's Office,    Minutes of meetings.      RDCHRDP has been initiated. PST staff
policies and programmes on              PPOs NEPC, Ministries, RDCs,       PST and provincial records.    appreciale training approach and have
Decentralisation                       Donors and NGOs with regard to      Correspondence.                training skills.
decentralisation policy and        PST Facilitalion Diaries and
programmes.                        records.
e) Co-ordinalion ol govl, donor and NGO  PST discussions wilh PA's Office,    Minutes of meetings.        Provincial personnel ol line ministries,
lunded inilialives related lo RDC      PPOs NEPC, Ministries, RDCs,        PST and provincial records.    NGOs etc are able to participate in training
development, and the promolion of       Donors and NGOs with regard to     Correspondence.                leams.
linkages wilh the Private Seclor.       RDC funding and the promotion of   PST Facililalion Diaries and
linkages with the Private Seclor.  records.
47



Annex I B
Page 12 of 16
I) Provision and dissemination of     Inlra and inler provincial workshops   Minutes of meelings.       Provincial planning and budgeling
inlorination on RDC capacily building  held to share experiences amongst   PST and provincial records.  approach has been agreed at national
experiences throughout the Province    PSTs and PA's Ollices.            Correspondence.                level. Key actors are willing to participate
PST Facilitation Diaries and  and co-operale.
records.
g) Establishment ol Institutional capacily  In conjunction wilh national level  Progress and monitoring reports.  Provincial Ministries are commilted to the
monitoring systems for individual RDCs    initialives, provincial and RDC  Minutes of meetings.         programme and to work with RDCs to
and moniloring procedures for the      monitoring systems established and   PST and provincial records.  ellect appropriate monitoring systems.
RDCCBP as a whole in each Province.    operational to monitor:           Correspondence.                PSTs have data base skills.
- implementation of RDCCBP (6     PST Facilitalion Diaries and
monihly)                          records.
- changes in capacity of RDCs
(annually)
- changes in rural service provision
49



Annex IB
Page 13 of 16
C       ACTIVITIES / OUTPUTS                 INDICATORS                      MEANS OF VERIFICATION              RISKS / ASSUMPTIONS
C3   At National Level
The management and co-ordination of the
RDCCBP by the CBU, acting as the
Secretariat, Technical and Executive arm
of the CBCC. This includes:
a) Collaling and preparing informalion  CBU involvement in meelings         Minutes of meelings.           CBU stalf are in post and have good
requiring Ihe consideration of the CBCC  discussing policy issues.          Policy papers.                 management, co-ordination,
including recommendations on policy issues  Policy discussion fora established and    Informalion briefings.  negoliation and presentational skills
for the RDCCBP.                        meetings held to address strategic   CBU Reports.                   and have clear terms of relerence.
issues.
b) Making necessary preparations for   Regular meetings of CBCC and its sub-  Repons, Minutes of meetings  Individuals and institutions with which
CBCC meetings and providing secretariat   committees held to give guidance to the                          CBU stall interact are reasonably
services.                              CBU.                                                                receptive to the goals and objeclives
of the capacity building programme.
c) Implementing actions arising from   Repots prepared, meelings held, and  Reports, Minutes of meetings   Component projects are in place and
decisions of Ihe CBCC.                 other appropriate activities undertaken.                            designed lo operate in a
complementary manner.
d) Ensuring the establishment,         RDCCDP, RDCHRDP, Funding for        Project documents, reports,    PSTs can be recruited and staff are
management and co-ordination of all   Equipment Grants, District Development  correspondence, minutes.    open to attitudinal training. Suitable
components of the RDCCBP including the   Grants and Loans are established and                             personnel to carry out induction
Inslilulional, Human Resources and    funclion in a planned, co-ordinaled and                             training can be recruited.
Capital Funding components.           complementary manner.
e) Organising the establishment and    All PSTs established by end of 1996.    Contracts, Workshop Reports,  Key ministries involved with co-
induction of the Provincial Support Teams    Recruitment compleled and Induction  Minutes of meetings.     ordination of decentralisalion and
in each province.                      programmes planned and implemented                                 linancing of RDCs are willing to co-
by August 1996.                                                    operate in an altempt to resolve
strategy or policy blockages.
1) Guiding the PSTs professionally, and  Regular meetings with PSTs. Timely  Reports, Minutes of meetings,  Sector ministries are committed to
providing supporl as required.         and appropriate response to requests for Correspondence.            decentralise some of their functions to
supporl.                                                           RDCs.
49



I tillllcx I Li
Page 14 of 16
9) Establishing and facililating linkages  Regular meelings held wilh all actors  Reports, Minutes ot meetings,  NGOs are interested in capacity
bolh belween tie CBCC and PSTs and     involved in RDCCBP.                  information papers.             building and are prepared to woik wilh
between Ihe PSTs, TC facililators and TC    Newsletter or regular intormalion paper                        [te nalional programme.
manager, lo ensure ellective and regular    sent out.
communication and experience sharing.
h) Liaison with sector ministries and GoZ    Liaison, discussions and meetings held   Reports, Minutes oa meetings,  Donors are interested in capacity
policy making bodies With regard lo the  wilh relevant sector ministries.   strategic plans.                building and are prepared to work with
capacity building implicalions ot Ihe  Stralegic plans for functional capacity                              the nalional programme.
decentralisation of lunctions to RDCs.  building produced.
ij Liaison with the Association of Rural  Liaison, discussions and meetings with   Reports, Minutes oa meelings
District Councils and NGOs on issues of    AROC and relevant NGOs.                                          GoZ and Donors are interested m a
RDC capacily building.                                                                                      moniloring system and prepared to
support it.
jj Liaison with Exlemal Support Agencies    Liaison, discussions and meetings wilh   Reports, Minutes ol meetings  CBU stall have necessary basic
(ESAs) in all aspecis ol ROC CBP.      relevant donors.                                                     skills.
k) Monitoring the implementation ol    Effective monitoring systems         Reports, Minutes ol meetings,   CBU slaff have faciitation skiNs and
aclivilies of the capacily building    established lo monitor:              Consultancy contracis.          DLGA is open to change.
programme                                implementation ol RDCCBP
- changes in capacity of RDCs
- changes in rural service provision
I) Organising the procurement of vehicles    Procurement of aN equipment and  Reports, Minutes ol meetings.
and equipment required tor Ihe capacity  vehicles completed.                Procurement documents.
building programme.
m) Producing regtlar progress reports on  Ouartedy reports produced and     Reports
the RDCCBP tir the CBCC.               presented at CBCC meetings.
n) Managing the financing of the CBU,  Financial management syslems         Financial Reports
CBCC and the PSTs including preparation    established wilhin 3 months of project    Minutes.
of quarterly accounis and financial reports  initiation.
to MoF.
50



Annex IB
Page 15 of 16
.D        INPUTS                                 INDICATORS               MEANS OF VERIFICATION            RISKS / ASSUMPTIONS
DI   PROVINCIAL SUPPORT TEAMS
a) PSTs appointed by MLGRUD in each   Staff in Post within 6 months ol   Progress Reports             Suitable personnel can be recruited
Province                              project iniliation
which comprise:
* PST Team Leader
- up to 4 PST facilitalors in each province,
onie per 2 disiricts
b) Vehicles and Equipment procured by  Al vehicles and equipmenl in place  Progress reports, procurement   Procurement syslems are operated
CBU for PSTs from GoZ/ODA Capital     within 6 months of Project slart.  documents.                   elliciently by ODA, MLGRUD and
Grant to value of 620,000 and including                                                              MoF
lor each PST;
- 5 Pick up trucks (1 per team member)
- 3 compulers
- Photocopier and office equipment
training & presentalion equipmenl
c) ODA and CBU provide operational    Funds made available by ODA through  Progress and financial reports,   Operating syslems can be
tunds for PSTs on impresl basis to the  NDF / VoC system.                accounts                     established between ODA, MoF,
value ol 2,966,000 over 5 years                                                                      MLGRUD and PSTs can manage
accounts and MLGRUD will
decentra6se Ihe control system.
D2 PST INDUCTION PROGRAMME
a) ODA provide 213,000 from GoZIODA   Funds provided at Project Slart-up.  Progress reporls.         Suitable facilitators can be found and
Capital Grant lor an 11 week induction                                                               funding is available.
programme for all PST Team lacilitators
and members of the TC support leam.
51



Annex IB
Page 16 of 16
D3 CENTRAL LEVEL - CBCC and CBU.
a) MLGRUD appoint CBU Personnel      Stall in post by Nov 1996          Reporls minutes of meetings    Suilable persormel are available and
- Programme Co-ordinalor                                                                             are allracted to the posis
- 4 Programme Otticers:
Finance
Projects
PST Guidance and Support
Decentralisation
- 3 Admin Supporl Slatt:
Book keeper
Admin Secrelary
Oftice Orderly
b) CBU procure Vehicles and Equipment    All vehicles and equipment in place by  Progress Reports    Procurement syslems are operated
lor CBU trom GoZVODA Capilal Grant   December 1995                      Procurement documents        etficienitly by ODA, Crown Agents,
- 2 x Saloon cars                                                                                   MLGRUD and MoF
-1 x 4WD Vehicle
- Computers, pholocopiers. ottice
equipment etc.
(Already provided under lnterm Project)
c) GoZ and ODA establish operational  Effective operational systems active    Progress and financial reports,   Operating systems can be
tunding system and provide:          and funds available through NDF I  accounits                    established between ODA, MoF and
503,250 over 5 years tor operalional  VoC system.                                                   MLGRUD
costs including:
74,074 tor small training budget
E74,074 lor small consultancies budget
c) ODA provide E3,073,290 trom TC lunds  Presence of funds and working  Progress and tinancial reporls,   Funds are available and capable
tor the operalion costs oa Ihe TC Support  financial systems within 4 months oa   accounis          consullancy team can be recruited
Team including:                      leam appoinimenl
75,000 tor short term consulancies
52



53
Annex 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE



ANNEX 2                                            RDCCP: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                   Annex 2
Page I of I
199S9        1996/97      1997/98       19989        1999/00      2000/01       2001/02
Cali                                     -
TCO
Roau,  -d
Ads                         _            >   __ _     _ __ 
2.ts HR
hsk_ X
tiARUD  H.O                          4 
llak N_d MAmi                             -                            . 
Ih.C N_. TI Plb i
8   N_ad T_                                                          ___                              _ 
R    _amtk Tr.                                                       _  ._.__        
CAMITAL OSLOPIEUT
DODG
Pmbial                           -?
Do                                         ?                                  -)            - >
ROflC CowI
LoanP s Maiw>
54



55
Annex 3
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS



Annex 3
Page 1 of 9
Annex 3
Environmental Analysis
1.    Background. The Government of Zimbabwe (GoZ) has long supported the
concept of sustainable development. The 1987 National Conservation Strategy (NCS)
identified a number of serious environmental issues facing the country and various
actions that were needed to address the problems. In 1992, the Canadian government
established the 5-year $15 million Zimbabwe Natural Resources Management
Programme (ZNRMP) to assist the GoZ in building capacity within the Ministry of
Environment and Tourism (MET) to implement its NCS through a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The four main components of the ZNRMP in the
MET include training; analysis and databases; environmental assessment; policy,
planning and legislation.
2.    Policy, Legal, and Institutional Framework. Prior to 1994, most of the
Environmental Assessments (EAs) were conducted as a requirement of international
donor agencies and multinational corporations. Following an official directive from the
Cabinet to develop the necessary legislation and policy to implement effective
management of natural resources in the country, the MET promulgated an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) Policy in 1994.1 Currently, there are 21 pieces of conflicting
and overlapping statutes directly or indirectly related to environmental management
administered by at least 8 different Ministries. Some sector-based statutes, including the
Natural Resources Act, the Mines and Minerals Act, and the Forestry Act, require EIA
and stipulate measures for enhancing environmental conservation and preventing
degradation. It is generally accepted that the environmental function of the MET has to be
harmonized with the functions of other sectoral Ministries and governmental agencies,
while ensuring that the MET is the umbrella Ministry responsible for overall formulation,
implementation, and enforcement of environmental legislation. The MET has also
recently completed a thorough analysis of environment-related legislation in the country,
including a review of the major institutional issues surrounding the development of new
legislation. A comprehensive Environmental Management Act is currently being drafted
rationalizing the existing pieces of environmental legislation, and which would make EA
mandatory. It is unclear whether the 1994 EIA policy would be incorporated into a
separate law or would be part of the proposed Environmental Management Act. What is
indubitable is that the Rural District Council (RDC) Pilot will be implemented in an
institutional and legislative context for environmental management that is undergoing
significant and positive reform.
At present, this policy does not enjoy statutory status.
56



Annex 3
Page 2 of 9
3.    Environmental Effects of Sub-Projects. The types of sub-projects that are likely
to be funded include minor works in water supply and sanitation, roads, clinics, schools,
and other community facilities. A substantial proportion of investments is expected to be
for rehabilitation. The net environmental impacts therefore probably will be either
neutral, as in the case of conscientiously designed new roads, or positive, as in the case of
provision of water supply and sanitation facilities. Additional positive environmental
impacts may arise from the construction of community facilities which provide green
spaces or public meeting areas with water and sanitation facilities. No resettlement is
envisaged, and the project has been classified as Category B.
4.    In the light of the above, this analysis is therefore confined to: (i) flagging
potential adverse impacts ; (ii) presenting a simple questionnaire checklist that could be
used by the RDCs to evaluate the environmental impact of proposed projects; and (iii)
ensuring that the appraisal and monitoring of the RDC sub-projects are designed in such a
way to ensure that each sub-project is properly assessed and monitored for potential
environmental effects and dealt with on a case-specific basis. The generic impacts of the
typical sub-projects identified by the RDCs as their top priorities are highlighted under
each sub-sector as follows:
5.    Rural roads. As the road works envisaged under this project would consist mainly
of the upgrading and rehabilitation of existing secondary and feeder roads, no significant
negative environmental impacts are anticipated. On the other hand, road rehabilitation
can provide positive environmental impacts by encouraging traffic to remain on
established roads, rather than using undeveloped alternative routes, rebuilding shoulders
to increase safety, and repairing or modifying road alignment to improve drainage and
run-off. The following points may need particular consideration, though:
(i) Erosion and slope stability. Local erosion problems can be exacerbated and
slope stability disturbed by road rehabilitation if not carried out properly. These can be
the result of deficient drainage, modification of water flows, or through excavation for
gravel and borrow materials. In most instances, potential problems can be avoided or
mitigated through appropriate design or by taking measures such as backfilling or
vegetative measures.
(ii) Impact on the local vegetation/deforestation. Minor excavations/clearings
may result in the clearance of vegetation increasing deforestation rates. In these cases, the
problems can be mitigated through appropriate design and minimizing vegetative
clearance.
(iii) Cultural issues. The expansion of an existing road may endanger religious,
spiritual, or archaeological sites. These problems can be avoided by consulting traditional
leaders and avoiding sub-projects on such environmentally sensitive sites.
6.    Water Supplv and Sanitation. In general, water supply and sanitation projects
could be expected to yield positive environmental outcomes for the communities
57



Annex 3
Page 3 of 9
concerned through safer water, and improved hygiene practices. Issues that deserve
consideration include:
(i) Health Hazards. Inadequate protection of the well or borehole surroundings
could result in possible contamination of the water source. The risk of such
contamination can be offset by proper design and construction of appropriate protective
measures for the water source, and training of community members in appropriate
maintenance practices. Provision of latrines could contaminate shallow groundwater
resources which could be mitigated through relocating latrines or identification of
alternative drinking water sources. Aggravation of sanitation problems from unsafe
disposal of sludge can be mitigated by ensuring properly functioning arrangements for
disposal of wastes in controlled sites.
(ii) Use of water points for watering/grazing livestock. There is a possibility of
overgrazing/watering of livestock leading to degradation of soil and vegetation around
the water source. This can be avoided by providing alternate sources for watering
livestock, and alternative pasture areas.
7.    Social Infrastructure Proiects. The environmental impact of these sub-projects is
expected to be minimal. A potential area of concern would be to ensure the safe disposal
of hazardous materials from the health centers. This can be achieved by installing
incinerators or finding a safe solution (construction of protected disposal pits, for
instance) to the disposal of wastes. Another potential area of concern could be the
aggravation of scarcity of local wood resources through use of timber for construction
and other purposes for school and health facilities. This could be mitigated through the
use of alternative construction materials to wood. Afforestation measures could also be
instituted.
8.    Screening and Appraisal. The process by which sub-projects are screened,
appraised and approved, will be designed in such a way that negative environmental
impacts (if any) will be identified at an early stage and adequate mitigating measures
incorporated into the sub-project design through a consultative process. The Operational
Manual will require that the RDCs use a simple questionnaire checklist for identifying
and evaluating the environmental impact of development activities under their
jurisdiction, and wherever appropriate to determine mitigation measures that will
minimize adverse impacts. The questionnaire checklist is presented in Table 1 and will
be discussed and finalized with the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban
Development (MLGRUD) during appraisal. The checklist will be incorporated in the
2   This checklist may draw on, inter alia: (i) The Environmental Impact Assessment Policy, Ministry of
Environment and Tourism, Government of Zimbabwe and (ii) the proceedings of a workshop under
the auspices of the ARDC which was attended by 19 RDCs compiled in Pilot Study of the
Environmental Impact Assessment of Proiects Within Rural District Councils (ARDC-FES, March
1996).
58



Annex 3
Page 4 of 9
Operational Manual. The RDC Project Officers with the assistance of the Provincial
Support Teams (PSTs) will be primarily responsible for using the checklist in the
screening process. Each sub-project would then be classified according to its
environmental impact (e.g., category A - negative impact; category B - negative but able
to be mitigated; category C - environmentally benign; category D - environmentally
positive) together with a brief summary description of the issues of concern and
mitigating measures proposed. Sub-project proposals that do not include this summary
description will not be eligible for funding as specified in the Operational Manual.
9.    Given the nature of the typical sub-projects, it is anticipated that most potential
problems can be resolved through dialogue and negotiation with the communities,
technical advice, and by incorporating special features into the design of specific sub-
projects. If necessary, the PSTs will assist the RDC Project Officers in identifying
relevant environmental issues and to undertake the necessary technical activities
necessary to deal with the issues identified in the questionnaire checklist. The appraisal of
the RDC sub-project proposals at the provincial level will be carried out by a task force
appointed by the Provincial District Committee (PDC) that includes the Provincial
Planning Officer and a provincial representative of the National Economic Planning
Commission (NEPC) who will ensure that the project proposals meet the environmental
appraisal criteria specified in the Operational Manual. The task force will critically
review the RDC proposals to ensure that they comply with the environmental appraisal
criteria set out in the Operational Manual and suggest additional appraisal data, if
necessary. In addition, the PDC will ensure that reliable means exist for adequate
planning and implementation of impact management measures, and can and will be
carried out. Sub-projects with complex environmental impacts (if any) that the RDC or
the PST is not knowledgeable about with respect to their magnitude, severity, and
management will be flagged to the PDC. In such exceptional cases, the guidance of the
provincial representative of the MET will be sought to undertake an EIA in accordance
with the 1994 EIA Policy. However, it is highly unlikely that this will be required.
10.   Institutional Capacity and Training. The local capacity to adequately screen,
oversee the design of sub-projects, and monitor their implementation in accordance with
environmental criteria is reasonably satisfactory. Of the 57 RDCs, Project Officers from
19 RDCs have undergone training in diagnostic techniques for conducting EIA in a recent
workshop organized by the Association of Rural District Councils (ARDC). In addition,
Project Officers from 20 RDCs associated with CAMPFIRE participated in an EIA
Training Course organized by USAID. In addition, over the last three years, the ZNRMP
has trained several hundred natural resource managers in government agencies and
departments (including local government officials) in project appraisal and environmental
assessment techniques. The proposed checklist itself is derived from the proceedings of
the ARDC workshop mentioned earlier and, hence, will not be perceived as an external
imposition. ARDC has proposed carrying out two more similar workshops to provide
EIA training to the Project Officers of the RDCs that have previously not been exposed to
such training. This will be confirmed during appraisal.
59



Annex 3
Page 5 of 9
11.   Monitoring and Evaluation. A monitoring system will be established to ensure
that environmental concerns are appropriately incorporated into the sub-projects. During
the initial stages of sub-project appraisal and design, there would need to be a strong
reliance on the RDC Project Officers to identify relevant environmental issues and
monitor that those responsible for designing and implementing the different sub-projects
undertake the necessary mitigating measures or other technical activities to deal with the
issues identified. Mitigation of physical and social impacts (if any) will be achieved
through a consultative process with the concerned communities. Baseline and impact
assessment surveys that are part of the project's MIS and evaluation systems will include
environmental indicators that will provide useful feedback on whether the appraisal
process is indeed resulting in environmentally sound projects on the ground. In addition,
the overall compliance with the environmental appraisal procedures will be assessed
during the Project's operational audit for GoZ FYs 1997/98 and 1998/99.
60



Annex 3
Page 6 of 9
Table 1. General Environmental Checklist-
Suggested
Environmental Feature                                          Impact (N, M, S)4                       Mitigation Measures
A. Landscape
1. Is the proposed development going to destroy prominent features?                                    If possible, site the project so that
prominent relief features are not destroyed.
2. Will the proposed project cause some slopes to                                                      Stabilize any slopes that may have become
be unstable and/or become susceptible to land slides?                                                  unstable.
B. River Systems
3. Will the project cause changes to river beds and banks that may                                     Changes to stream channels should be
cause excessive siltation or erosion within the channel?                                               minimized.
4. Is the proposed project likely to cause excessive soil erosion                                      Soil conservation measures should
or production of sediments through excavations that will cause siltation of channels?                  be instituted.
5. Will the project reduce water inflows to wetland systems (pans, vleis)                              Desiccation of wetlands should be avoided.
thereby causing damage to them?
C. Soils
6. Are the soils in the project area fragile and likely to be eroded due to                    Liaise with Agritex on the appropriate soil
the disturbances?                                                                                      conservation measures.
7. If excavations for gravel, quarrying or general construction will be                                Excavations should be rehabilitated by
made, will these not initiate soil erosion?                                                            either backfilling or stabilizing their slopes.
3   To be finalized during appraisal.
N - Negligible; M - Moderate; S - Severe.
61



Annex 3
Page 7 of 9
8. Is the project likely to cause excessive concentration of wild or                             Populations of animals and humans should be
domestic animals or human populations which may cause soil erosion?                              within the carrying capacity of the area. Soil
conservation measures should be instituted.
9. Will the project activities result in clearance of vegetation and cause                       Vegetation clearance should be minimized.
soil erosion?                                                                                    Afforestation measures should be put in place.
10. Will the project generate toxic wastes whose disposal may lead to                           Disposal of toxic wastes should be strictly
soil poisoning?                                                                                  controlled.
D. Vegetation
I1. Is the project going to cause clearance or damage to rare/endangered                        If possible, avoid siting the project in such an area. If
vegetation species?                                                                              unavoidable, translocate the species.
12. Will the clearance of vegetation cause the loss of woodland resources                       Avoid siting projects where these resources are
such as timber, fruit trees, or medicinal plants?                                                important. Preserve the fruit and medicinal plants.
13. Will the project result in cutting of trees for firewood or construction                    Alternative energy sources and construction
thereby increasing deforestation rates?                                                         materials should be mandated or put up woodlots.
14. Will the project increase the accessibility of woodlands to illegal                         Cutting of trees for wood vending should be strictly
wood vendors?                                                                                   controlled.
15. Is there a possibility that the project may increase the incidences                         Sensitize all those connected with the project about
of veld fires?                                                                                  the dangers of veld fires. If necessary, put up road
signs to warn road users about problems of veld fires.
E. Wildlife
16. Is the project going to disturb or damage habitats of species                               Avoid siting the project in such areas. Seek the
or the species themselves that are protected by law?                                            advice of DNPWM.
17. Will the project disrupt the movement of wildlife?                                          Avoid siting the project along game corridors.
62



Annex 3
Page 8 of 9
18. Will project increase accessibility of wild life areas to poaching?                         Liaise with police, DNPWM, and local leaders to
control such activities.
19. Is there a possibility that excavations will be a danger to wildlife?                       Excavations should be backfilled or fenced off if
they cause such a danger.
F. Population and Settlement Patterns
20. Is there a possibility of an influx of foreign workers that may result                       Local communities should be given priority when
in pressure over local resources such as water?                                                 recruiting workers.
21. Will the project cause the relocation of some households?                                    This should be avoided/minimized during project
siting. If unavoidable, the affected households
should be adequately compensated and provided
with an equivalent area to settle.
22. Is the project likely to cause the development of unplanned settlements?                     Unplanned settlements should be prohibited.
G. Agriculture
23. Will the project lead to a loss of or damage to prime agricultural lands?                   Avoid siting the project in such areas.
24. Is the project likely to damage standing crops?                                             Avoid project activities before harvesting.
25. Is the project likely to cause a loss of grazing lands that will result in                   Minimize loss of grazing lands during siting.
overgrazing elsewhere?                                                                           If unavoidable, introduce rotational grazing.
26. Will the project result in abandonment of sustainable traditional                           Ensure that such practices are not abandoned.
agricultural systems or growing of food crops?                                                   Liaise with Agritex.
H. Commercial and Social Issues
27. Will the project lead to the growth of uncontrollable informal                              The informal sector should be closely controlled.
or illegal commercial ventures?                                                                 Collaborate with police to control illegal ventures.
63



Annex 3
Page 9 of 9
28. Will the project lead to an increase in the incidence of diseases                            Health conditions should be improved. Mount
due to overcrowding or unhygienic living conditions?                                            health education campaigns.
29. Will the project disadvantage some gender groups particularly                                Ensure that project offers fair opportunities to all
with respect to the control of resources?                                                        groups.
1. Transport and Communication
30. Will the project lead to the damage of existing roads?                                       If the impact is temporary, the damages should be
repaired. If not, the road should be upgraded.
31. Is the project likely to cause traffic congestion?                                          If the impact is temporary, put up road signs
warning road users. If not, improve existing roads.
32. Is the project likely to overstretch existing communication                                  Liaise with PTC so that these facilities are improved.
facilities?
J. Cultural Issues
33. Will the project interfere with or damage religious, spiritual                              Avoid such impact by all means necessary when
and archaeological sites?                                                                       the project. Consult traditional leaders.
34. Is the project adversely going to affect traditional land tenure                            Consult traditional leaders.
systems?
K. Institutional Issues
35. Is the proposed project likely to cause the community to have                               Ensure that community participates at all stages
negative attitudes towards local institutions (RDC Councillors,                                 of the project - planning, design, and
traditional leaders)                                                                             implementation.
36. Will the project affect the mandated role of key institutions?                              Consult all relevant institutions and remove
potential areas of conflict.
64



65
Annex 4
SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN



Annex 4
Page I of I
Annex 4. Summary of RDCCBP and Pilot Project Costs' and Financing Plan
(U.S. $ million)
RDCCBP Costs                         Pilot Project Costs                           Financing Plan2
(5-yr program)                       (Initial 2 yrs of RDCCBP)             RDCs  Dutch  SIDA   ODA   IDA
Foreign        Local          Total          Foreign        Local          Total
A. Institut. Devpt.
PSTs           0              5.84 (100%)    5.84                                                                               5.84
CBU            0              1.20 (100%)    1.20                                                                                1.20
Tech.Support   5.25 (90%)     0.58 (10%)    5.83                                                                                5.83
Equipment      0.33 (10%)     2.96 (90%)    3.29                                                                                3.29
Monitoring
& Studies      0              0.78           0.78                                                                               0.78
Audits         0              0.10           0.10                                                                               0.10
Sub-total     5.58 (33%)     11.46 (67%)    17.04                                                                              17.04
B. Human Res.Devpt.
Equipment      0.20 (10%)     1.77 (90%)     1.97                                                                        1.97
Workshops      0.34 (50%)     0.35 (50%)     0.69                                                                        0.69
Needs
Assessment    0.10 (50%)      0.11 (50%)     0.21                                                                        0.21
Basic Training  0.28 (50%)    0.29 (50%)     0.57                                                                        0.57
Community
Training                      0.68 (100%)    0.68                                                                        0.68
Sub-total      0.92 (22%)     3.20 (78%)     4.12                                                                        4.12
C. Capital Devot.
DDGs            4.76 (10%)    42.83 (90%)   47.59            1.42 (10%)   12.83 (90%)      14.25                 3.0    4.00            7.25
DDLs           11.00 (40%)    16.50 (60%)   27.50            2.00 (40%)    3.00 (60%)      5.00          0.5                            4.50
Policy Support   0.25 (50%)    0.25 (50%)    0.50            0.25 (50%)    0.25 (50%)      0.50                                         0.50
Sub-total      16.01 (21%)    59.58 (79%)    75.59           3.67(19%)   16.08 (81%)       19.75      1  0.5    3.0    8.12   17.04   12.25
Figures in parentheses represent percentages of total (respective) component cost.
2 The total financing gap of U.S $55.84 million (75.59-19.75) is expected to be filled under the proposed LGDP.
66



67
Annex 5
DRAFT TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL



Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
Annex 5
Draft Table of Contents for Project Implementation Manual
I     Implementation Manual Table of Contents
2     Executive Summary
3     Project Scope and Objectives
3.1   Program Origin and Participatory Design Process
3.2   Objectives
3.3   Program Description
Institutional Development Component
Human Resources Development Component
Capital Development Component
3.4   RDCCBP Program Implementation
3.5   Roles, Objectives, and Responsibilities: CBU, MLGRUD
3.6   RDC Financing Plan and Cost Recovery Mechanisms
4     Policy Framework
4.1    MLGRUD Statement of Sectoral Policy
4.2   Roles and Responsibilities of RDCs
4.3   Decentralization Policy Support: Objectives, TOR
5     Implementation Guidelines
5.1   RDCCBP Implementation Mechanisms
5.2   Procedures for Acquisition and Utilization of DDGs and DDLs
(Operational Manual)
5.3   Administrative Procedures (lines of authority, responsibilities etc.): CBU,
MLGRUD, MOF
6     Project Planning and Implementation
6.1   CBU Staffing Arrangements: Functions, Responsibilities
6.2   Implementation Arrangements: CBU, MLGRUD (clarification of parent
department of CBU and interdepartmental responsibilities)
6.3   Implementation Schedule: Overall Project (physical, procurement,
disbursement, finance etc.)
7     Institutional Development
7.1   Training and Associated TORs
7.2   Implementation Review
8     Human Resources Development
8.1   Training and Associated TORs
8.2   Implementation Review
68



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
9     Environmental Analysis: Questionnaire Checklist and Monitoring
Arrangements
10    Economic Analysis
11    Covenants and Targets
12    Procurement Procedures, Bidding Documents, and Monitoring System
12.1  Procurement of Goods
12.2  Procurement of Works
12.3  Procurement of Services
13    Disbursement Procedures
13.1  Direct Disbursement
13.2  Special Account
13.3  Special Account/SOEs
13.4  Payment, Budgeting, Accounting and Fund Flow Procedures
14    Accounting and Auditing
14.1  Internal Audits (functions, responsibility, schedule)
14.2  External Performance Audits: Functions, TORs and Schedules
15    Reporting
15.1  Reporting Schedule
15.2  Status of Accounts
15.3  Status of Major Problem Areas and Suggested Solutions
15.4  Activity Progress Reports
15.5  Contract Status and Payment for Works, Goods and Services
15.6  Audit Reports
16    Project Monitoring
16.1  Project Progress (Responsibilities, timing etc.)
16.2 Monitoring of Covenant Compliance
16.3  Monitoring of Performance
16.4  Monitoring of Project Impact on Beneficiaries
17    Performance Indicators
17.1  RDCCBP Performance Indicators
17.2 RDC Capital Development Pilot Indicators
18    Project Supervision
18.1  Supervision of the Review Process
18.2 Mid-Term Review
18.3 Implementation Completion Report
69



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
A     Annex
A. 1   World Bank Procurement Guidelines, as applicable to ITF Credits
A.2   World Bank Consultant Guidelines, as applicable to ITF Credits
A.3   Standard Contract Documents for Goods, Works, and Services
A.4   Disbursement Handbook and Letter
A.5   Miscellaneous TORs
70



71
Annex 6
MLGRUD'S POLICY LETTER ON DECENTRALIZATION



ra[apbe: 790601, 07791,/6,                        SIBIOR SECRETARY FOR LOCAL
70Ml                                        GOVERNIMEN, RURL AND URBAN
Tetem: 'LOCALGOV HA}RE-             =B"NE         DEVELOPMENT
Prfrte Baa 7J06
Conmepo"umce should l                             c2nr"27             Annex 6
be 2ddresxd to indiyiduls                         77]mbwe             Page I of 23
27 NMarch 1997
SECTOR POLICY LETTER: NIINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT RURAL. AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT: ZIMBABWE
A)   Backeround:
The philosophy of the Ministry of Local Government Rural and Urban
Development in its support for decentralization is to promote sound local
govemance in order to achieve sustainable social and economic development
at local level as well as to to enhance capacities of local governments where
the required capacities are inadequate. The Ministry of Local Govemrnment
Rural and Urban Development's thrust is therefore centred on attempts to
create appropriate and supportive institutional environment within which
local government can effectively function. Implied in this philosophy is the
view that local authorities are established to responsibly plan, implement and
sustain capital investments in infrastructure and services for the benefit of
inhabitants of their areas in a transparent and accountable manner. The
cornerstone of this policy is promotion of a system of local government
based, on democracy decentralised authorities and people participating in all
governance processes in their areas. With respect to Rural District Councils
the Ministry /Government realised, after amalgamation of Rural and District
Councils that they had very inadequate capacities to undertake functions
assigned to them in terms of the Act that established them. The governnent
of Zimbabwe therefore decided to enhance the capacities of these local
authorities through the design and implementation of Rural District Councils
Capacity Building Programme over a period of five years. Ivaddition the
Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development was aware
that there were broad policy issues that needed to be addressed if a suitable
environment for effective local authority service provision is to be created for
both Rural District Councils and Urban Councils.
The main issues are the following:
72



Annex 6
Page 2 of 23
the division of functions between central government and local
authorities.
the mechanism  for coordination  of the overall process of
decentralisation.
the need to review central government finance and management
systems so as to bring the planning and budgeting system in line with
a more decentralised system of local govemance and
the need for progress in improving local government finance involving
increased revenue raising and revenue sharing and proper management
of the same.
Hence the Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban
Development is proceeding on a two pronged approach, which are
Capacity Building for Rural District Councils and resolution of broad
policy issues above.
B.   Decentralization Policy Framework:
The Minister of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development after
Cabinet approval in July 1996 announced to the Press and Public the major
development that had taken place in the implementation of the government's
decentralisation policy which is sumrnarised hereunder to illustrate the
Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development's sector policy
on decentralisation.
The promulgation of the Rural District Councils Act in 1988 and its
implementation in 1994 marked a policy landmark in the administration and
development of our rural areas. This Act transferred a wide range of powers,
authorities, roles and functions from central government to rural district
councils. The same powers authorities and functions had alreadv been
transferred to and implemented in Urban Councils since independence in
1980.
In the circumstances, however, much work remains to be done to transform
the policy and law into an action programme for Rural District councils .
Central government will work out appropriate operational policies and
procedures to facilitate a smooth transfer of a wide range of powers.
authorities, roles and functions which the Act had made possible during the
lifetime of the Rural District Council Capacity Building Programnmne. The
73



Annex 6
Page 3 of 23
Ministry's experience has also shown the need and importance of reaffTirming
central government's conmmitment to its policy of decentralisation and the
development of a common appreciation among senior government officials
of what decentralisation in the Zimbabwean context means. This common
appreciation will facilitate the rate at which decentralisation will be
implemented.
The government has now mapped a comnrmon approach, comnmon focus and
emphasis, and common procedures and principles on its support to the
decentralisation programrnme. Outlined hereunder are the procedures and the
general principles on decentralisation agreed upon by government:
1 .   That decentralisation is necessary and desirable based on the clear
undertaking that it promotes and strengthens democracy and civic
responsibility as citizens participate in their governance and
development. It also helps in minirnising bureaucracy by reducing
levels of decision making and thereby achieving greater efficiency of
operations. However, it will not be taken as a strategy for dumping
problems of sector ministries to the local councils.
2.   That decentralisation be defined and understood to mean the legislated
transfer of functions and authority from central government to local
authorities on a permanent basis. Once provided for in law, such
transfer of powers and functions can be reversed only on the basis of
an amendment to the appropriate law.
3.   That there is need for all Ministries to use the same local institutions
for the implementation and management of decentralised functions
and not to create parallel or separate institutions. Where parallel
institutions exist, these should be harrnonised.
4.   That decentralisation is a process and not an event, as such, it should
be implemented cautiously and progressively, having regard to the
human, financial and material capacities of the local authorities to
whom the transfers would be made.
5.   That in respect of those activities and projects to be undertaken by
local authorities, sector ministries retain the power and authoritv to set
standards, monitor performance and consistency to ensure compliance.
This means that local authorities will, in executing their legal powvers
and responsibilities, be required to comply with the requirements of
74



Annex 6
Page 4 of 23
national policies, laws and regulations.
6.   That an  inter-ministerial committee of Ministers to manage
decentralisation and capacity building be established. In this regard,
the existing inter-ministerial Capacity Building Coordinating
Committee will report to a Working Party of Heads of Ministries, who
in turn will report to Ministers on policy issues.
7.   That central governnent, in implementing decentralisation, shall
strengthen human and financial resource capacities of local authorities
so as to make them effective institutions in the provision of the social
and infrastructural services needed for sustainable local development.
8.   That central governrment will continue to be responsible for the
provision of trunk services which impact upon more than one local
authority area or are of a national character. This refers to all social,
infrastructural and economic projects that impact upon more than one
local authority and call for more resources than can be mobilised by
one local autfiority. For this purpose, line Ministries concerned will
provide guidelines on which projects are to be undertaken by local
authorities having regard to the social and economic impact of
projects, the capital outlay required and the level of professional and
technical expertise needed to execute the projects.
9.   That the transfer of powers and functions by line ministries to rural
district councils be done by the line ministry concerned and that the
Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development will
co-ordinate and facilitate this effort. The initial areas agreed for
decentralisation to local authorities by sector ministries are detailed in
Annexure I.
10.  That all grant moneys for recurrent and capital expenditure sourced by
line ministries and are earmarked for local authorities be disbursed to
the local authorities soon after the promulgation of the Appropriation
Act. Such grants will not pass through the Ministry of Local
Government Rural, and Urban Development.
11.  That all government loans to all local authorities should be channelled
through the Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban
Development except for those loans from the National Housing Fund
administered by the Ministry of Public Construction and National
Housing which will be disbursed direct to the councils by that
ministry. The Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
75



Annex 6
Page 5 of 23
will disburse the loans onlv after the local authority concerned has
been granted borrowing powers by the Ministry of Local Government
Rural, and Urban Development.
I2.  That in Zirnbabwe there be only two levels which collect taxes, levies,
and other user charges namely central government and local
authorities. Thus both rural district councils and urban councils
should collect such taxes, levies, fees and user charges for those
services they should provide in terms of any appropriate law, or
regulation.
13. That the Public Service Commission will manage the transfer of
personnel from central government to rural district councils where this
happens as part of decentralisation.
ACTION PLAN
C.   Capacitv Building:
The NfLGRUD recognises that the building of capacity in both rural and
urban local authorities is crucial to the achievement of an effective and
efficient decentralised system of local governance in Zimbabwe.
To build capacity in Urban local authorities the Government of Zimbabwe
has, with the support of the World Bank, been funding the Development
Component of the Urban II project.
To strengthen the capacity of Rural District Councils the Government has
embarked upon a major 5 year Capacity Building Programme. This will
involve three components, the Capital Development Project, the Institutional
Development Project and the Human Resources Development Project. The
success of the Programme hinges upon these three projects being
implemented for the full 5 years simultaneously, and the absence of any one
will significantly alter the "chemistry" of the programme and jeopardise Is
outcome.
76



Annex 6
Page 6 of 23
Both Urban II and the RDCCBP have a common goal insofar as they seek to
build the capacities of local authorities to responsibly plan, implement and
sustain capital investments in services and infrastructure. It is, however,
vitallv important to appreciate that the environments in which the
programmes are operating are significantly different and that different
approaches will be required. Urban authorities are relatively well off
compared to RDCs, have a stronger resources base and contain better
qualified and experienced staff. Thus the focus of Urban II has been upon
physical infrastructure. The less experienced and poorly resourced RDCs
require an approach which enables them to develop basic competencies and
self confidence, hence the adoption of an approach to implementation based
upon learning by doing in a supportive environment for a full five years.
The Government of Zimbabwe proposes to combine the urban and rural
components of capacity building into a more holistic programme, the Local
Government Development Project (LGDP). However Government is aware
of the potential risks involved in combing these two programmes, and that
it must be done carefully and sensitively. It is absolutely fundamental that
the weaving together of the Urban and Rural local government projects into
the LGDP does not compromise the learning-by-doing approach at anv stage
in the life of the RDCCBP. The importance of this can not be over stated.
The LGDP is to be operationalised after two years of the RDCCBP. At this
stage most RDCs will have exposed their weaknesses and be trying to rebuild
their systems and structures. They will require consistent and coherent
support at this stage in the learning process and must be confident that the
resources to facilitate this will be available. In other words it is crucial that
a commitment to supporting the learning process approach for the full 5
years is made at the outset of the programme and that RDCs are confident of
this.
i.   Capacitv Strengthening for Rural District Councils:
The current capacity of Rural District Councils to tackle the functions
which the 1988 Act enables them to undertake is extremely varied
reflecting the different human, financial and physical resources
inherited by Rural District Councils from their predecessors. The
natural resource and economic bases of Rural District Councils are
also extremely heterogeneous. Therefore the needs and ability to
meet them also vary significantly. The key weaknesses and gaps
77



Annex 6
Page 7 of 23
common to most local authorities have been identified as firstly
human resources and financial resources ( including vehicles and
equipment). Secondly, there are the organisational characteristics
involving leadership qualities and organisation's sense of a mission,
management systems and structures and the degree of discipline,
openness and accountability within the organisation. To strengthen the
capacity of Rural District Councils the Government has embarked
upon a major Capacitv Building Programme. The objective of the
RDCCBP is to enhance the capacity of RDCs to plan, manage and
sustain district development, and to enable the provision and
maintenance of rural service provision on a sustainable basis. The
GoZ has adopted a "learning by doing" process approach to capacity
building for the RDCCBP, in which development funds, provided
through the Capital Development Project, will stimulate a process of
action as RDCs plan and manage development projects. This, in tum,
will provide the scope for facilitators - provided under the Institutional
Development Project - to help RDCs expose and rectify weaknesses
in overall planning and management systems and structures. The IDP
will also enable RDCs to learn on-the-job with guidance and support
from facilitators. Other, more formal training needs will be addressed
through the Human Resources Development Project. All three of
these components will be fundamental to the success of learning
process approach throughout the life of the Programme: if one is not
in place the success of the overall RDCCBP will be undermined. The
Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development will
also enhance this process by creating an enabling environment for
councils by addressing broad policy issues over the five years of the
RDCCBP implementation with the assistance of CBCC which is a part
of the Institutional Development Project.
The Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development is
also aware that there will be need for extremely close and efficient
cooperation and coordination between different components of the
programme through out the lifetime of the programme horizontally at
national, provincial and district levels respectively and vertically
between these levels. The Ministry will ensure this close cooperation
and coordination of the programme through use of the Institutional
structures which have already been put in place which are:
Interministerial committee of Ministers, the Working Party of Heads
of Ministries, the Interrninisterial Capacity Building Coordinating
Committee, the National Capacity Building Unit, the Provincial
78



Annex 6
Page 8 of 23
Support Teams supported by external T.C.Os and the Rural District
Councils themselves. The division of responsibilities between the
CBU and Ministry of Local Government Rural and Urban
Development in the implementation of CBP are detailed in annexure
3.
The NMinistry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development
will during the implementation of the programme ensure that:
a)   all local authorities meet certain basic legal requirements in
terms of staffing and management systems before they receive
any funding.
b)   the funded projects comply with the criteria laid down by the
Ministry of Local Government Rural, and Urban Development.
c)   the prescribed procedures and criteria are followed in
identifying projects for funding under the DDGs or loans by all
local authorities.
Monitoring and Evaluation will be undertaken not only to measure
achievements relative to specific end targets but as a tool in the
institutional development process itself, stimulating dialogue and
learning amongst programme partners, in facilitating redesign weak
aspects of the programme and ensuring stake holder participation in
the process.
Elaborate formal monitoring structure have been developed under the
institutional development component which is now being
implemented.  Outlined hereunder are the main documentary
requirements under the Capital Development Component.
(a)  All Local Authorities will be required to follow approved accounting
procedures to ensure that funds are used for the purpose of their
disbursement and that their accounts are audited annually.
(b)  Under the RDC CBP all Provincial Administrators will be required to
keep documentation of funded projects in their province which will be
used to monitor performance of each local authority and submit half
yearly and annual reports on all funded projects using the Ministry
prescribed format, and
79



Annex 6
Page 9 of 23
(c)  The national level will keep a comprehensive records on all aspects of
the funded projects and compile half yearly and annual progress
reports to be presented to the CBCC and made available to external
funding agents.
ii.   Capacitv Strencthenin2 for Urban Councils.
For Urban Councils the MILGRUD adopted the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
7619 of 1989) which among other issues identified the need for building,
developing and strengthening of (1) institutional and (2) technical capacities
in the institutions involved in the management of urban projects. The
technical capacity component of the World Bank funded Urban II involved
" a once off" equipping of the local authorities with vehicles and plant and
equipment.  The Institutional component funded by NDF has two
subcomponents which are human resources development and operations
management in local governments, government departments and the
Programme Coordination and Monitoring Unit in the Ministry of Local
Government Rural,'and Urban Development.
The vehicles and plant and equipment were purchased and delivered to all
local governments implementing the project. The implementation of the
operations management include assistance to local governments in areas of
soft ware, accounting, financial management, operations maintenance etc.
coordinated by MLGRUD with the assistance of NDF Consultants and
PCMU.
Under the Human Resources Development the MLGRUD is implementing
training under a Comprehensive Training Plan based on SIDA Training
Needs Assessment Study of 1991, the actual needs and critical areas
identified in the implementation of the Urban II Project and submissions of
training needs by individual local authorities. Two of the three phases of
training are complete while Phase II whose thrust is in service training of
staff of local authorities is still being implemented.
D.   Intergovernmental Fiscal relations:
The overall objective of the RDCCBP and Urban II Project is development
of capacity for local authorities to responsibly plan, implement and sustain
capital investments in services and infrastructure. The needs of rural district
and urban councils are however different, but the overall goal is one:
autonomy for all local authorities. This goal will be central to the design of
the LGDP which will be the successor to both the RDC Pilot and the Urban
80



Annex 6
Page 10 of 23
II Projects.
The ways in which the RDCCBP/RDC Pilot Project and the Urban [I Project
efforts will be woven together in the LGDP are problematic. The two types
of local authorities are at different stages of evolution of local govemance.
The GOZ with respect to RDCs has decided to allow broad policy issues to
be developed in a two pronged approach over the five years of the RDCCBP
implementation and to be decided upon through the CBCC which is part of
the Institutional Development Component of the programme. In the Urban
Sector the division of functions between Central Government and Local
authorities is satisfactorily defined. The main thrust or emphasis will be on
the reform of the fiscal relationships between central government and
councils with the overall goal to increase financial resources availability to
councils.
One of the often advocated means to increase fmancial resources available
toocal authorities is revenue sharing between central governnent and local
authorities. The MLGRUD considers that this concept is a noble one but in
Zimbabwe the dual nature of the economy evidenced by poor and fairly good
financial resources bases for RDCs and urban councils respectively makes
its immediate implementation for capital investments inequitable as the
central fiscus is already crowded by the need to implement projects of a
national nature in infrastructure. Urban Local Authorities have a strong
enough resource base to, under enabling environment, raise enough capital
including government loans to implement their own projects. The RDCs
because of the weak resource will need a combination of central government
grants and loans. The recurrent expenditure grants for specified services
such as Education and Health provided should continue under the LGDP.
The MLGRUD will pursue a policy to guarantee these loans and grants by
making a pre set percentage of the annual national budget through reforrm
or legislation. There will be a need for a study and consultations on this
matter.
To achieve the aforesaid the MLGRUD needs to undertake a number of steps some
of which are outlined below:-
(a)  Institution of the DDG instrument to be accomplished through the Pilot
Project and to be broadened to include recurrent grants to all councils under
LGDP.
(b)  Establishment of Council performance monitoring system again to be
81



Annex 6
Page 11 of 23
established under to Pilot Project and more broadly applied under LGDP.
(c)   Linking grants to performance once the granting and performance evaluation
systems are established. This will require detailed analysis of key
indicators and ways in which will be rewarded and vice versa. This should
be achieved through the Pilot Project.
(d)  Achieving equity in granting system to assure that disadvantages councils are
not penalized for their initial lack of resources and! or capacity while still
providing incentives to councils which perform well. Derivation of
performance monitoring systems and equity weighting mechanisms will
allow design of a fully functioning earmarked block grant system applicable
to all councils.
(e)  Installation of the block grant system to govern all central transfers to local
govenmments achievement of this goal will probably be expected during the
third year of the LGDP.
E.   Mobilisation of Private Investment:
The final step in the creation of local govemment autonomy is the promotion
of private investment in the provision of local services on a sustainable basis.
This is a complex and new concept to local govemance in Zimbabwe. There
is thereforea need for a thorough study and consultations before its
introduction to both types of local authorities.
W.A. Chiwewe
SENIOR SECRETARY FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT, RURAL AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
82



Annex 6
Page 12 of 23
AINNEXURE 1
DinAL .AREAS AGREED FOR DECEINTRALISATION TO LOCAL GOVELNSiENTS
BY SECTOR .INVISTRIES
. Ministry of Public Service Labour and Social Welfare
1. 1   Food relief in times of drought.
1.2   Education and health assistance to orphans and other destitutes.
1.3   Food and health assistance to the aged, disabled, infim etc.
1.4   Screening and identification of deserving cases but excluding refugees.
1.5   The funds for such social welfare activities would be sourced by the Ministry of
Public Service Labour and Social Welfiae&and disbursed directly to the rural
district councils.
2.    Ministry of Public Construction and National housing
2. 1.  The local authorities should be responsible for housing construction and
management or facilitating the private sector involvement in housing construction
and management that where the ministry intervenes and constucts houses, the
management of such houses shall, subject to -
(a)   the granting of the usual borrowing powers; and
(b)   the relevant council by-laws be handed over to the rural district councils.
2.2.   The Ministry ofPublic Construction and National Housing would source for funds
and disburse them directly to the councils.
2.3. The mechanism for the channelling of funds to the local authorities would be on
the basis that all loans to local authorities would be channelled through the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development except for those
loans from the National Housing Fund which should be disbursed directly to the
Councils by the Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing.
In the case of disbursement of loans, it was agreed that the Ministry of Public
Construction would disburse such loans to the local authorities concerned when their borrowing
powers have been granted by the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development.
83



Annex 6
Page 13 of 23
3.     Ministrv of Health and Child Welfare
3.1.  a)    the procurement and mnnnagement of ambulances;
b)    the hiring of all staff and their conditions of service
including salaries and allowances.
c)    the provision of public sanitary services including effluent treatment and
removaL
P
d)    the provision of child welfare and nutrition services.
e)    the provision of environmental health services incLuding health and hygiene
promotion.
f)    the, funds for these activities sourced by the Ministry of Health would be
disbursed direct to the councils and a31 assets, movable and immovable
such as bufldings, vehicles, plant and equipment belonging to government
should be transferred to the councils.
g)    the transfer of further responsibilities should be cautious andgradual taldng
cognisance of the council's capacities to absorb and manage the new
responsibilities.
h)    the agency through which monitoring and supervision of the District
Health functions will be the responsibility of the Provincial Health Executive.
4.    Ministry of Transport and Energy
The Ministry of Transport and Energy as the National Road Authority, would transfer
responsibility for non-state roads and bridge construction and maintenance to the District
Development Fund and Rural and Urban Local Authorities.
5     Ministry of Education
5.1.  the siting, construction and maintenance of schools, creches and school hbraries.
5.2.  the establishment and maintenance of school grounds.
5.3.  the procurement of text books and stationery not using per capital grants which
should be disbursed directly to the schools.
5.4.  the collection of levies. fees and other charges for the running of schools.
5 5.  The iMinistry of Education would source for and disburse
direct to the councils building grants for secondary schools.
84



6.    Ministry of Environment and Tourism                                          . u
Page 140of23
6. 1.   The management and sustainable utilisation of natural resources in local authority
areas will be the responsibility of local authorities.
6.2.   The benefits of this responsibility should accrue directly to the local authorities
and benefit the local communities concerned.
7.    Ministrv of Lands and Water Resources
7.1.  the administration and use of commaunal land
7.2.  the construction of small and medium size dams
7.3.  the provision of boreholes and wells
7.4.  the supply of potable water to growth points, service centres, mines and small
towns.
8.    Nlinistrv of National Affairs, Employment Creation and Cooperatives
This Ministry was basicaUv a service ministry with no specific function which could be
transferred to local authorities in the short to medium term.
9.    Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
This Ministry should -
9.1.  create the correct institutional environment for the implementation of the policies,
laws and programmes of other ministries and particularly those ministries whose
policies and laws require the participation of local communities for their
accomplishment.
9.2.   Co-ordinate the implementation of the decentraLisation process in line with the
agreed principles.
9.3.   Answer to other ministries where the local institutions inhibit the fiulfilment of their
policies, lawsvand programmes.
9.4.   Source both general development loans and administration and general grant
monevs and disburse such moneys direct to the rural district councils.
9.5.   Grant borrowing powers to local authorities in respect of borrowings from the
National Loan Fund under the Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing.
10    *linistrv of Agriculturc
85



Annex 6
Page 15 of 23
The issues that are of direct and immediate concern to the Ministry of Agriculture in
regard to the process of decentralization and the Rural District Council Capacity Bilding
Programme include the following:
(')    Collection of Dipping levies
The Departnent of Veteriary Services in preparing the relevant receipt books to
faclitate colection of dipping levies by district councils in addition to PTC which
is assisting them at the moment. A handling fee of 10% will be payable to the
councils.
(b)    Communa - Area Cattle Sales Trust Fund
The handling of communal area cattle sales and the Trust Fund for repairs and
maintenance was temporarily transferred from CSC to ZFU working with a committee involving
CSC, Vets, Agritex and District Councils.
This arrangement has not worked well and the Ministry is examining the feasibility
of transferring this to Rural District Councils.
Other Areas for Future Consideration
-     Management of Smallholder Irrigation Schemes and Related Infrastructure.
-     Marketing of Agricultural Produce.
-     Input Supply and Distnbution and Construction of Storage Warehouses.
-     Livestock Communal Grazing Schemes and Feedlots.
-     Drought Mitigation Activities.
The above areas can be managed by rural district councils and consultations with relevant
technical departments should take place thrbugh the worldng party to come up with firm
proposals.
86



ANNE^Y 2                                                                                    Annex o
Page 16 of 23
SUMMARY OF AREAS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT LOCAL GOVERNANCE
POLICY FRAMEWORK
Capacity Building Assistance for the Local Government Development Project:
Experience to date from both the RDCCBP and the Urban II Project has pointed to the need for an
administratvely and technically strong P.TU to support Program. Ideallv the bilateral donors m.ight offer to
support capacutv building assistance for local governments above RDC level.
2.      Legislative Review:
The MILGRUD will dunng RDC Pilot Project hire the services of local consultants supported by international
specialists to review all relevant acts to local governments and recommend amendments to provisions of acts
which are contrary to the Ministry's concept of devolution or decentralisation in order to enshnne
decentralisaton of authority and resources to local governments. Funds are already available under the IDP
of the RDCCBP to carrvout a review of Acts relevant to RDCs dunng the RDC the first 2 years of the
programme period. A broader study encompassing Urban Council legislation will also be required.
3.      Municipal Classification System Reviews
The MLGRUD intends to review the present way the Municipal classification system
works, the authority and responsibilities which are assigned to each level, overview the capacities
at various levels and make recommendations as to the appropnate changes to be made in the classification
system. Funds for study are not yet avadable as present bilateral donors support is for RDCCBP.
Funds wil be solicited during the RDC the first 2 years of the programme. Ideally the study would be carried
out by a team of both local and intemational specialists.
4.      Design of the Block Grant System:
The introduction of the DDG under the RDCCBP although initially intended to be a
means or fuel for the learning by doing" or process approach adopted by government is a
type of block grant system which the Ministry has advocated for some time. The MLGRUD
therefore needs a well designed block grant system proposal as a tool for advocating the
introduction of the same by M.O.F. to all levels of local governments.
Tie proposed system would need to take into account central government ear marking
for specific purposes, the different types of gants assistance which would be most
relevant to different levels of local governments, the central budgeting and disbursement
system etc.
The funds are not yet available for this studyv The funds will be solicited for durng the
RDC Pilot Project and implemented during the LGDP.
5.      Central Ministry Establishment Reform:
Tliere will be need if decentralisation is to succeed to review and reform the
establishments of central muinstnes mncluding MLGRI ID. In the case of MILGRUD the
study must involve the review of departments at the national level, and the relevance of the province
and the district levels. The central ministries to be reviewed mnclude Ministnes of Finance. National
Economic Planning Commission. Health. Education. Lands and Water Resources Development etc.
This studv should be sponsored by the Nlinistry of Finance or the President's Office for it to be
87



Annex 6
Page 17 of 23
accepted by all ministries and implemented. The study must be done during the RDC Pilot and
implemented during the LGDP. No funds are yet available for this study but it is felt that bilatenl
donors will be willing to fund it
6.      Comrnercialising Local Authority Activities
A study of the potential for commerciaizing urban local authority services has recently been completei A
second phase of the study would be to extend the investigation to cover all local authorities drswig on
rgcent lessons learned from the Urban local authorities.
7.      The role of State Land and Central Rates Fund
There is need to review the roles of the State Land Office and the Central Rates Fund in  the MLGRUD
and that of councils with a view to reform the system for the benefit of all local authorities and their
constituents. The study to review these two institutions and make recommendations is overdue and therefore
must be carried out as soon as funds are available. The MLGRUD will make formal request to the Bank to
facilitate the funding of this study as its finding will deftitely enhnce both the capscity and fitnance of local
governments. The study would comprise two components:
a)     an inventory of state land in each local government jurisdiction
b)      recommendations on the priorities and methods by which the land could be turned over to local
governments to spur productive investments. The study should be canied out by regional or
international speciaiists with local consultants forming part of the study team.
8.      Debt and Equity Options in Mobilising Private Investment
The purpose of the study would be to form the baseline for establishing a municipal finance market(s).
There are a number of options that could be considered. USAED will be appmoached to consider funding
the study which will require input from municipal finance specialist with international experience.
9.      Decentralisation
The NtLGRUD intends to seek the assistance of a donor to fund an wnmbrella study for management of
decentraiisation process and the resultant project proposaL The UNDP has expressed intrest to finance both
aspects of this project Initial discussions between UNDP and the MLGRUD havo already taken placc This
study should start before the implementation of the RDC Pilot Project and the implementation of the
resultant reconmmendations during RDC Pilot Project in line with the MLGRTlDs sdopted two pronged
approach.
88



Annex 6
ANNE(U-m RC 3 5Page 18 of 23
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF LOCAL
GOVERNMENT RURAL AND URBAN DEVELOPMIENT DEPARTMEiNT OF LOCAL
AUTHORITIES ADNIINISTRATION AND THE CAPACITY BUILDING UNIT
(SECRETARIAT TO THE CAPACITY BUELDING COORDINATING COMMITTEE
IN TrE RURAL DISTRICT COUNCILS CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAMI,MtE
Preamble
After the promulgation of Rut-al District Cotincils' Act Cliapter 29:13 of 1988
and the implementation of the Act in July 1993 the Govenrnment of Zimbabwe
established a Capacity Bujilding Programimne in Noveumber 1994. The Programnie
is intenided to improve the standard of living of the rural population
through the efficient provision of services.
ROLE OF THE MrNISTRY (DLAA)
In 1990 the Government of Zimbabwe adopted an Economiiic Reform Programme
whicih has seen Govenment agents gradiually givinig up tlhe implementation role
anid takiing on a facilitatosy role. bi this changed role of government, Local
Authorities liave now assumed greater responsibilities in service provision.
The Ministry of Local Goveiniinenit Rural, and Urban Development is charged first
and foremost with the responsibility of mauaging this process. It is also charged
with ensuring that the roles being wnidertaken and those being transferred to
these Local Authorities are efficiently provided to the residents and that enabling
legislatiou is uot-violated.
It is also the mlinistry's responisibility to see to it that public fuids are properly
accowuted for and that the local autliorities are maiwed at the right levels with
properly qualified manpower. Thnese broad responisibilities translate thiemselves
into the following roles:
A)    Formulating and co-ordinating Local Goveniment Policy.
Facilitating orderly unanagemenit of Local Authorities in accordance with
enabling legislation.
Monitoring the local autilorities' compliance with the legislaiiou.
Establisling and abolishinig of local authorities and alterations of their boundaries
Resolving disputes ani( dealing with all complainits regarding local authorities.
Facilitating a hamnnonious co-existence betweeni traditional structures and
89



Annex 6
Page 19 of 23
local governent structures.
Facilitating foreign and local visits.
Dealing with local and international associations and fora that have an impact
on local authorities.
Facilitating and encouraging development of the small and medium scale
businesses through the relaxation of strigent regulation.
Processing and gazetting of subsidiary regulation for Local Authorities.
Managing and spearheading the Decentralisation exercise.
Preparing memoranda, reports, speeches aud other documents for Ministers
and Senior Governmeut officials.
B)    Ensuring efficient and proper finiancial management of local authorities.
Monitoring financial performance of local authorities through analysis of
final accounts, audit reports and reviewing and participation in the budgeting process.
Appraising of investment projects for compliance with Government
and Donor requiremeuts. (Ensuring that councils are legible to participate in the
Capacity Building Programme and Urban H).
Appraising of borrowing power application (Ensuring that councils are
legible to participate in the Capacity Building Programme and Urban II).
Developing accounting systems in keeping with current trends of public sector
accounting and fiuance aud advisiug as wel as assisting local
authorities in the formulation of relevant regulations.
Developing of financial data bank and analysing the policy implications on
the basis of the statistical data provided and advising accordingly.
Managing of the administration grauts provided by Government to local
authorities.
C)    Processing for ministerial approval the appointment of senior staff in rural district
councils.
Processing for ministerial approval conditions of service for rural district councils.
Processing for ministerial approval conditions of service executive mayors.
90



Annex 6
Page 20 of 23
Advising rural district couicils on all matters pertaining to conditions of
service of their employees.
Advising rural district councils on the proposed organograms for effective
and efficient managemnenit of services they provide.
Liaising with donors aud otlher sector ministries on all matters pertaining to the
Capacity Building Progratmne.
Negotiating and securing fihnding from donors for the capacity building programme.
Identifying training iieeds of local authorities staff.
Designing and orgauising suitable courses as may be necessary to
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of local authorities.
Preparing project proposals for the Capacity Building Programme at times
with assistance of consultants, techuiical co-operation officers and CBU staf
To strengtlieu the Department the following vacancies must be filled:- One
under Secretary, three Assistaut Secretaries. In addition to these vacancies there is
also a need to establishi anotlier Assistant Secretary post and two Administration
Officer posts to allow the Department to deal with Decentralisation. The
Department of personnel aud Admninistration is actively addressing these issues.
The Department has already beeu authorised to fill one assistant secretary post
and one administrative officer post.
At the moment the whole Department lias seven fully functional computers and
one printer. It is envisaged that four computers shall be obtained under the
Urban 1I project. For the Departmenit to meet its obligations to process timely
everything else under the Capacity Building Programme it will need at least
another twelve computers, two heavy duty printers and two lap top computers.
In addition the Departmeut also needs one heavy duty photocopier and a fax
machine and one server and eniouglh network equipment to link about twenty
offices to the network.
As a starting point it is proposed that training in basic computer appreciation be
given to twelve people to enable tlietn to use the computers. The other training
needs of the department will unravel as the programme gains momentum and tramining gaps are
identified in the learning process.
TIE ROLES OF THE CAPACITY BUILDING UNIT (TEE SECRETARLAT
OF THE CAPACITY BUILDING COORDINATING COMMITWEE)
91



Annex 6
Page 21 of 23
The Capacity Building Unit is the npleemeuting arm of the Capacity Building
Co-ordinating Committee. Its work emauates from the deliberations of its mother
body the Capacity Building Co-ordiiiatiiig Commnittee. The Unit should therefore
aim at fulfilling the objectives of the CBCC. In servicing the CBCC well the CBU flourishes.
The CBU should therefore strive at makinig the CBCC succeed and inversely the
minstry and Governmeut as a whole. ThLis lhowever cannot be done by taking over the
role of the ministry or goveniment.
TIhese broad principles translate themselves into the following roles;
Assisting the CBCC to build the capacity of Rural District Councils through:
Collating and preparing infonnationi requiring the consideration of the
CBCC including recommendatious on policy issues for the programme.
Making the necessary preparations for CBCC meetings and providing secretariat services.
Implementing actions arising from decisions of the CBCC.
Managing and co-ordinatiug the programme components, financially and administratively.
Organising the estabhshment and induction of the provincial support teams in each province.
Guiding professionally, the PSTs and providing support as required.
Establishing and facilitating linkages both between the CBCC and PSTs and between
the PSTs, TC facilitators and TC team leader, ensuring effective and regular
communication and experience sharing.
Monitoring the implementatiou of activities of the capacity building programme.
(statement of expenditure, project appraisal reports for both disbursement and progress
reporting purposes).
Procuring equipment for the programme with the full knowledge of the Planning
and Budgeting sub-committee of the CBCC.
Producing regular progress reports on the programme for the CBCC.
Managing the financing of the CBU, CBCC and the PSTs including the preparation
of quarteriy accounts and financial reports to Ministry of Finance. Administration
of the special account with the guidance of the Department.
NSTIT     IONAL RELATIONSEIIP BETWEEN TEE CAPACITY BUlDING  TNIT
AND THE MINISTRY (DLAA)
The Capacity Building Unit is housed in the Ministry of Local Government Rural,
92



Annex 6
Page 22 of 23
and Urban Development whicih chairs the Capacity Building Co-ordinating Committee.
Because of that special position thie Ministry of Local Govemment Rural
and Urban Development (DLAA) on a day to day basis, has a mnnagement
responsibility to ensure the successful implementation of the Rural District
Councils Capacity Buildiug Programme.
The Ministry ensures that the Capacity Building Unit carries out the
CBCC's resolutions timeously and accordiug to the policies and objectives of
the Government of Zimbabwe.
As the professional head of the facilitation team (PSTs/TCO), the CBU is bound to
identify the need for chauges and otlher related constraints in its operations. These
are brought to the attentiou of the Miuistry of Local Government Rural and Urban
Development (DLAA) on a day to day basis before they are formally tabled before
the CBCC for cousideratiou aud guidance. In like manner the Mbiistry of Local
Government Rural, and Urbani Developmeut (DLAA) could, in its normal operations
idenitify urgent business wihichi nieeds to he looked illto. TiWs could be again brought
to the atteution of the CBIJ by the Ministry before they are formally considered by the CBCC.
Tnhe Milnistry of Local Goverllneut Rural, aud Urban Development (DLAA) therefore,
on a day to day basis, las a supervifory aud management role on the operations of the CBU.
THE PROPOSED STRUCTUTRE FOR THE CB1J IS AS FOLLOWS
PROGRAMME COORDtNATOR
PVTSEC ETARY
MESSENGERIDRIVER
PROGRAMME OFFICER                      PROGRAMME OFFICER
HRD/PST Admin                            Finance
ACCOUNTANT
BOOKKEEPER(WORLD BANK) BOOKKEEPER(OTHER DONORS)
It is proposed to increase the streugth of the CBU by a total of four posts, namely.
that of an Accountant, two of a bookkeeper and one each of a Driver/Messenger and
that of a Private Secretaiy/Administrator. The Accountant would report to the
93



Annex 6
Page 23 of 23
Programme Officer (Finance) aud be responsible for the proper maiatenance of the RPDCCBPs
books of accounts. The two bookkeepers would report to the
Accountant and would be responsible for the Institutional Development Project
and Human Resources Developmeut Projects fimds for the Bookkeeper (other donors)
and District Development Grauts aud Loans for the bookkeeper (World Bank).
The Private Secretary/ Admiuistrator sliould have bookkeeping training as she/he
will deal with personnel issues such as leave, travelling and subsistence claims, imprest
account and small purclhases.
W.A. CHIWEWE
SENIOR SECRETARY FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT,
RURAL AND DEVELOPMENT ITRBAN DEVELOPMENT
WAC/gc.
94



95
Annex 7
PROPOSED AUDITING ARRANGEMENTS



Annex 7
Page I of 4
Annex 7
Proposed Auditing Arrangements
Backgrsond
A key principle of the RDCCBP is the promotion of learning by doing among
participating RDCs. With regard to the capital investment component of the program, it
will be very important to ensure that adequate monitoring of the RDCs' management of
DDGs and DDLs is carried out so that any difficulties can be identified, brought to the
attention of the RDCs and rectified. The bi- and multilateral donors involved in funding
the capital investment component must also have access to audit reports to support their
contributions to the program.
The challenge is to ensure that RDCs are assisted in their learning by doing by adapting
audit requirements to both meet donor needs and support, rather than impose upon, the
RDCs in carrying out their duties. Evaluation of the program's performance should, to
both support capacity building and satisfy donor requirements, address a number of key
areas including:
--impact of investments
--improvement in RDC planning, implementation and maintenance performance
--financial accountability
--central disbursement management.
Following is a suggested approach to gathering necessary data for all of these areas
without overburdening RDCs or diverting resources from their intended investment
purposes.
1. Impact Assessment and Performance Evaluation- plans are already well advanced for a
UNDP managed impact assessment baseline study. This study, as presently designed,
will collect a wide variety of data from a sample of 8 RDCs (at least one from each
province) over a multi-year period. This study will allow assessment of progress
resulting from, particularly, the institution building component of RDCCBP. Included in
this assessment will be evaluation of the performance of the selected RDCs in following
the Operations Manual to plan, implement and subsequently maintain capital investments
including those funded through the DDGs and DDLs.
The Bank and bilateral donors financing the capital investment component of RDCCBP
require evaluations of the performance of all 57 RDCs in managing these investments.
Rather than commissioning a separate evaluation activity--which would consume
significant time and resources--it would be more efficient to incorporate this evaluation
into the UNDP managed baseline study. Since this study will be taking place in all 8
provinces, the additional workload to evaluate all RDCs with respect to the capital
96



Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
component of the project should not be overwhelming. A draft scope of work for this
activity is attached, and is proposed for inclusion in the baseline study TOR.
2. Financial Accountability- existing Government regulations require that all RDCs
submit independently audited financial statements within nine months of the end of each
financial year. These regulations are acceptable to the Bank. At present more than 30 of
the RDCs are in compliance, but about 24 have significant backlogs of unaudited annual
accounts. It is necessary, therefore, to provide directed assistance to these RDCs to clear
their books and resume the mandated annual auditing regime.
Funding for the technical assistance required to achieve this goal could be provided
through the policy development component of the RDC Pilot project. This component,
which is administered by MLGRUD through the CBU, could make available funding for
RDCs to contract certified auditors to clear RDC books. Following this assistance, all
RDCs would, as a condition of eligibility to receive capital grants and loans, be required
to conform with established Government auditing requirements from financial year 97/98
forward. All RDCs would be required to pay for these audits from their own resources,
and PSTs would monitor to ensure that satisfactory auditing arrangements are in place for
all RDCs.
This eligibility requirement should be incorporated in the RDCCBP Operations manual
with the additional codicil that all RDC annual audited accounts must contain a specific
assessment of RDC operation of the RDCCBP/Pilot Project capital investment account
(this would not be an onerous requirement, amounting to little more than a few
sentences). Since the task of clearing unaudited annual accounts can be fairly
complicated, it will be necessary to secure specialized assistance to draft a Terms of
Reference for this critical activity.
CBU and the Bank will work together to secure this specialized assistance. Assuming
that each problem RDC would require Z$ 100,000 to clear its books, about US$240,000
from the Pilot Project policy component would be earmarked for this purpose.
3. Central Financial Management- the remaining audit requirement would be for
MLGRUD/CBU central management. A separate contract for this purpose will be
necessary, and Bank assistance will be available in drafting the TOR.
In summary, these combined approaches to auditing requirements would appear to satisfy
both Government and donor requirements. It is very important that the Ministry assign a
high priority to finalizing these arrangements so that RDCCBP and the Pilot Project can
commence from a solid footing.
97



Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
Attachment to Annex 7
Draft Scope of Work
Performance Audits for the RDC Pilot Project
(Note: if agreed by all parties, the following scope of work would be added to the UNDP
terms of reference for the RDCCBP baseline Evaluation Project).
Monitoring Implementation of the DDG Operational Manual
The DDG Operational Manual sets out very clearly the:
--criteria for use of DDGs
--procedures for DDG project identification and applications
--appraisal at the RDC and Provincial levels
--disbursement procedures
--implementation guidelines
--monitoring and evaluation at RDC, Provincial and National levels.
The Provincial Development Committees (PDCs) and the Provincial Support Teams
(PSTs) have primary responsibility for ensuring that the DDG Manual procedures are
implemented by all RDCs. The PDCs and PSTs are well placed to carry out their
respective review and facilitating functions. As direct participants, in support of the
RDCs, in the DDG planning and implementation processes these bodies would benefit
from periodic, independent assessments of the overall performance of the new system
embodied in the Operational manual. In addition, independent performance evaluations
would provide useful information to the CBU as well as bi- and multilateral donors which
are financing the DDGs.
The UNDP-managed program impact assessment study is designed to provide detailed
information for a sample of RDCs in each province of Zimbabwe. The design of this
study includes assessments after the first 6 and 12 months of RDCCBP operations, and
annually thereafter for the life of the program. As such, the impact assessment provides a
very useful vehicle to achieve assessment of the performance of all participating RDCs
in implementing the provisions of the Operational Manual.
1. Scope of Work
This additional task would be carried out within the overall impact assessment activity
without adding an undue burden to either the assessment team(s) or the participating
organizations. During each scheduled assessment in all provinces, selected members of
the assessment team would verify the following information relating to implementation of
the DDG Operational Manual as follows:
98



Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
a. Review all annual work program (AWP) submissions from councils to RDCs to
ascertain compliance with the Manual's provisions regarding project
identification, application and appraisal. In a typical province, this would involve
review of about 8 submissions requiring no more than several person days of
effort.
b. During each scheduled assessment period, the team would interview all (where
each RDC is readily accessible) or a sample of RDCs in some detail regarding the
planning processes adopted by those RDCs in framing their DDG proposals for
the year. These interviews would focus upon the degree to which participation
from key interest groups was included in the planning process, methods by which
RDCs prioritized the investments proposed for DDG funding, and provisions
made (budgetary and otherwise) by RDCs for efficient maintenance and
utilization of the DDG funded investments. In provinces where interviewing only
a sample of RDCs is required due to logistical considerations, care would be taken
to ensure that the remaining RDCs are contacted in the subsequent scheduled
assessment. Depending upon the province, these interviews might require an
additional 10 person days per assessment.
c. Beginning with the assessment scheduled for mid-1998, the scope would
broaden to include review of RDC compliance with Manual provisions regarding
procurement and disbursement. This additional sub-task should add no more than
one person day to the interviewing task discussed in b. above.
d. The assessment team would also specifically review the community-driven
projects for which a 10% set aside is included in the DDGs. Of particular
importance would be review of the project identification process to determine the
means by which community initiatives are solicited and prioritized by RDCs for
implementation.
2. Reporting
A brief, separate report would be prepared by each provincial assessment team detailing
findings for the items discussed above. These reports would be submitted to CBU for
distribution. This report preparation would add approximately 10 person days of effort to
each scheduled assessment.
3. Additional Level of Effort
A rough estimate of the additional level of effort required for this task over the 2 year
period corresponding to the RDC pilot project would be 140 person days. Assuming
average fees and expenses of US$200/day, additional budget of US$30,000 may be
required. This funding may be available from ODA; if not, provision from the RDC Pilot
Policy Development component can be accommodated.
99






101
Annex 8
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE



Annex 8
Page 1 of I
Selected Documents in Project File
"Rural District Councils Capacity Building Programme: Human Resources Development
Project." Ministry of Local Government Rural and Urban Development. July 5,
1996.
"Zimbabwe Rural District Council Capacity Building Programme (RDCCBP): PEC
Submission 96 (8)." Overseas Development Administration. April 1996.
"Rural District Councils Capacity Building Programme: District Development Grants for
Rural District Council Capacity Building." Ministry of Local Government Rural
and Urban Development, Draft Project Proposal. July 1996.
"Rural District Councils Priorities for Decentralization". Dr. Derek Gunby, Planafric.
May 1996.
"The Capacity of Zimbabwe's Rural District Councils to Absorb Capital Development
Funding." Diane Conyers and Ben Hlatshwayo. June 1996.
"Operationalising the District Development Grant as a Tool for Rural District Council
Capacity Building." Amanda Hammer, Cornelius Murombedzi, Odulf van
Summeren. January 1996.
"Rural District Councils Capacity Building Programme: Institutional Development
Project." Ministry of Local Government Rural and Urban Development.
December 20, 1995.
"Developing the Strategic Plan for RDC Capacity Building: Report 4, The Funding of
Capital Projects at the District Level." Diana Conyers and Derek Gundby.
September 1995.
102



ZAIRE  f      TANZANIA                               28                                  30'               3L2a
)   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~LaAe Ccsbo,ct Ba;sso
ANGOLA          M~A\f                                                                   2
ZAMBIA        \                                   . 
I               2. 0tH      -16K ,                                             ~              v      ff_,_,>,,>16MOZAMBIQUE                              16'
---     4 .  H=,=-effh  MOZAMBIQUE                                                                    G GRtJVE
NAMIBIA      r         ^      fsOTSw       A     ssA    t-,_)  INDIAN  Z AMBIA                    B,                           NTNARY
NAII  -!BOTSWANA  -,,N/ (.TENA Y
SOUTHI                                 OCEAN                                        "'          '                                          DAR V/N f   USHINGA  %-
ATLANTIC        k                                                                                                            MN
SOUTHlAfRICA                                        S/            __*        ,  Chinhoyi*b                  /      I                                -/  '    
kIAKAIEkIA                    2s6'     _(                                             a    .l /                       '..-?.          .                .
NAMIBIA    ,^, ,  _    J!                ,/                   ,)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;^;9Ha~~~~rare  .,    
1l8'    k_&>                                                                                      ( -r-t f  "                  fs MASHONALAND)                 j -           18-
OCEAN                                                                                                                                I \  '    !  4  \  EA S E    , E' 
\,  .              --         --          4t,,                y)/   Q            \s ~~~~~~MINGALANQ (
A         ~MATA BA LELA ND                                                                      .       S~J       0ae
KaribaMILA DSMOar
SOT AFIC                                 NORTH,,.NOT
\                                     ,           3~~~~~~~              ~     ~~~~     ~~Gweru1--    
r.'"I Hcrairj
20'             ZlMBABWE                                                 ij                                  -                                                              20
RURAL DISTRICT COUNCILS                                     L._                          - -   j                                       E>             !   1 
AND PROVINCES                                              ( --                               W            - o\    M AjS V)I N GMO 4  _' AN
- $                                         K    ;.      . ',VA~    ,ii1
RIVERS                                          t, x   v X1rx1s teCiGwanda .    /                 /Y 'S
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                9      ,. 'I MATABALELAND 'M                                        r                 / ii          
o    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                  'C'                 -   '4tID'A.     j\          MWEI-                          , 
-RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL BOUNDARIES                    '       ,       SOUTH        \     ''          v>iII( HIRFDZI    '                  So          n
Ei UII  RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL NAMES                               <.< rS.,        /  3e I D      N
-   -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                     5.*> '<hIBIG  /                                   /         This map was prodsuerd by the
4\.  Nato~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, bIBIDE                             - 
20'                                                                                                                                                   Th20naie,clr,deoiain
an -220-   - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                     .,,                               -  //                 Map Design Unit faThe World Banik
100  200 KILOMETERS    BOTSWAN~~~~~~~~~Buawy                                  Mgsvindayohr nFrato oouna
D   l   I 00    200 KILOMETERS     B  O  T S  W  A  N  A          ,     ~          >>                  s       /           The WVorld RankS Group, any ju/dgment  s
-<                                                                                        _A                                                            any thse lega statusRV  any territor ofr
a                                                                                                    SOUTH         AFR A R    CU I        \          3SOUTH
26'      28'                                                                     32'  ~~~~oc-jsbo:ssdaries. or acceptance of~HIRFDZ






I



IMAGING
Report No.:          16046   ZIM
Type:      SAR



