Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21398
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
CREDIT N019-ZIM
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.9 MILLION (US$12.25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR THE
RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL PILOT CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P045029
December 21, 2000
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
Z$1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 = 40.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC                  Association of Rural District Councils
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CBCC                  Capacity Building Coordinating Committee
CBU                   Capacity Building Unit
CSO                   Central Statistical Office
DA                    District Administration
DDG                   District Development Grant
DDL                   District Development Loan
EIA                   Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
GoZ                   Government of Zimbabwe
HRD                   Human Resources Development
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
IEIA                  Initial Environmental Impact Assessment
IRWSS                 Integrated Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
ITF                   Interim Trust Fund
LGCDP                 Local Government Capital Development Project
MET                   Ministry of Environment and Tourism
MLGPW & NH            Ministry of Local Government Public Works and National Housing
MLGRUD                Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
ODA                   Overseas Development Administration
PA                    Provincial Administrator
PDC                   Provincial Development Committee
PDSP                  Pilot District Support Project
PSIP                  Public Sector Investment Program
PST                   Provincial Support Team
RDC                   Rural District Council
RDCCBP                Rural District Council Capacity Building Program
SIDA                  Swedish International Development Authority
TC                    Technical Co-Operation
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
VIDCO                 Village Development Committee
WADCO                 Ward Development Committee
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager: Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader: James F. Hicks



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data .................      ...........................................   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings .........................................................  2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry.....    3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs ........................ ........................    7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ..........     ...................   17
6. Sustainability ..................     ..........................................    21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................  23
8. Lessons Learned ......................     ......................................   29
9. Partner Comments .............................   ...............................    31
10. Additional Information ...........................................................  32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Map: IBRD #283 88
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P045029                   Project Name Rural District Council Pilot
Capital Development Project
Team Leader James F. Hicks            EL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core                        ICR Report Date December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
Cr Number: N019-ZlM
Country/Department: AFC03/AFTU1            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Rural Infrastructure/Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original     Revised/Actual
PCD: June 3, 1996                Effective: February 4, 1998
Appraisal: May 5, 1997              MTR:  October 1998
Approval: May 29, 1997            Closing: June 30, 2000      June 30, 2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Zimbabwe/Ministry of Local
Government, Public Works & National Housing (formerly Ministry of Local
Government and National Housing)
Other Partners: The Kingdom of Sweden (co-financier)
The Kingdom of Netherlands (co-financier)
The Department for International Development (parallel financier)
STAFF                              Current              At Appraisal
Vice President:                Callisto Madavo          Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:               Yaw Ansu                 Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:                Jeffrey Racki            Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:            James F. Hicks           James F. Hicks
ICR Primary Author:            Colleen Butcher
- 1-



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN = Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available) ICR
Quality at Entry:                                   N/A          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No, until one month before closing date, at which time
IDA had initiated steps to suspend the project due to non-compliance with audit
requirements, but overtaken by a country wide disbursement suspension due to national
loan arrears.
The Outcome and Sustainability rating of the project generated considerable debate
among the ICR team. At the start of the two and a half year pilot project, the Rural
District Councils (Implementing Agencies under the project), which had only recently
been amalgamated (from formerly segregated Rural and District Councils), lacked
management and financial capacity across the board. Despite enabling local
government legislation, the bulk of service delivery was carried out by the central
government through line Ministries, largely by-passing the local govermnent tier for all
but minor administrative functions. By the third year of the Project, shortly before the
precipitous decline of national macro-economic and national governance indicators,
there was strong evidence to suggest that the development objective of the pilot project
(see section 3.1 below) was being largely achieved at the local level. A broadly based
performance assessment of all 57 councils carried out by district and provincial task
teams in November 1999, classified 49% of the councils as being in high performing
categories and only two councils (4%) being in the lowest performing category.
Importantly too, the project supported an iterative institutional strengthening process
('learning by doing') at both local and national levels of government, whereby when
mistakes were made, they were identified and timeously rectified for the future.
However, a number of factors under the Government of Zimbabwe's control (as
Borrower), impacted negatively on project implementation. In particular, in the last six
months of the project, the general operating environment in the country deteriorated as
a result of political activity at the national level (as indicated by high fiscal deficits and
increasingly high inflation and invasions of farms across the country by "war
veterans"). Consequently project management became increasingly difficult.
Overall, the ICR team's judgement is that once the macro-economic fundamentals
eventually improve and there is a return to the rule of law in the country, the improved
- 2-



performance of the Rural District Councils under the project would provide a sound
springboard for future operations in the local government sector. Therefore, on
balance, the ICR team has concluded that ratings of: Satisfactory on Outcome, and
Likely on Sustainability, but Unsatisfactory on Borrower Performance, are appropriate
for this project.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.-
Within the context of government's overall decentralization program, the objective of
the Rural District Council Capital Development Program (RDCCBP) is to develop the
capacity of all RDCs to plan, implement and manage the sustainable delivery of
essential services that are essential to welfare, growth and development in rural areas.
To achieve this objective, the program is explicitly designed to support learning by
doing through the combined provision of institutional development support, human
resources development inputs, and capital and material resources necessary to provide
infrastructure and deliver services.
The RDC Pilot Capital Development Project was the first involvement of the Bank with
Zirnbabwe's RDCs, and the first substantial support by the Bank for rural infrastructure
in Zimbabwe. Initiating Bank support for RDC capacity building and rural
infrastructure financing through a pilot operation enabled the initial credit to be
relatively small, with each individual investment to be financed at the RDC level,
relatively simple and modest. Thus the RDC Pilot Project was designed to quickly
promote operational lessons learned.
In addition to benefits directly derived from the project, the operational lessons learned
in combination with the policy component of the project, should support the
effectiveness of other Bank initiatives that comprise the Country Assistance Strategy,
including those that support human resource development and those in which
intergovernmental coordination of infrastructure delivery is critical (e.g. poverty
reduction, transport and water resource management).
The project's development objective is to develop the capacity of Rural District
Councils (RDCs) to plan, implement and manage the sustainable delivery of essential
services by providing RDCs with access to funds necessary to provide critical services
and infrastructure, and creating incentives for improved RDC performance.
The key outputs of the development objectives are:
1. Improvements in investment planning and appraisal - to increase efficiency of
service delivery in the rural areas.
- 3 -



2. Selection, appraisal and implementation of infrastructure and community facilities
according to the Operational Manual - to improve delivery of basic services, and
reap the associated benefits of poverty alleviation.
3. Increased RDC responsiveness to local priorities, transparency, participation and
ownership.
4. Clarified and advanced decentralization process.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project's development objective was not revised during the course of the Project.
3.3 Original Components:
The Rural District Council Capacity Building Program (RDCCBP) was an ongoing
Program comprised of three components: Institutional Development, Human Resources
Development; and Capital Development. The Government requested Bank support for
funding of part of the Capital Development Component which would begin a five year
program of investment in July 1997, corresponding with the Government's financial year
of 1997/98'. The capital development component of the program, a portion of which was
financed by the RDC Pilot Capital Development Project2, was designed to (a) provide
all 57 RDCs with access to grant funds necessary to reequip and reinitiate critical
service and infrastructure provision and (b) create incentives for improved RDC
performance. The component was critical to ensure that capacity was not built in a
resource vacuum and that RDCs would be able to maximize their learning by doing
experiences through actual project implementation. It consisted of two types of capital
assistance (grants and loans) and of technical assistance for implementation of the
Governiment's decentralization policy (the policy component).
The main project components were:
District Development Grants (DDGs) (US$7.25 million ITF financing) would provide
each of the 57 RDCs with up to US$0.25 million in each of the first two years of the
project (GOZ FY1997/98 and FY1999) for productive investments in equipment and
infrastructure. According to beneficiary surveys, priority areas for investment were
roads and water and sanitation, followed by health, education and income generation.
' The Government of Zimbabwe changed its designation of the fiscal year from July - June, to the calendar
year. The transition was made by extending the fiscal year of 1997/98 to the 18 month period July 1997 -
December 1998. Beginning in 1999, the fiscal year coincided with the calendar year.
2 Of the US$75.59 million financing requirement estimated for this component under the entire
RDCCBP, US$19.75 million was provided under the RDC Pilot Capital Development Project, with
US$12.25 million ITF funding, the Governments of Sweden and the Netherlands providing US$7 million
and the RDCs themselves providing US$0.5 million. The remaining financing for the last three years of
this component's implementation (US$55.84 million) is anticipated to be obtained under the proposed
Local Government Capital Development Project, negotiated with GOZ, April 2000, but subsequently
affected by the 'non accrual' status that Zimbabwe was placed on, at October 2, 2000.
- 4 -



In addition each RDC was required to devote at least ten percent of each annual District
development grant (DDG) allocation to community based projects, in conjunction with
the RDCCBP Human Resources Development Component's focus upon sub-district
community planning and mobilization. Access to these block grants would be
predicated upon RDC's submission of approved development plans and engagement of
qualified senior officials.
In FY2000, performance criteria, to be agreed during the first two years of
implementation, would be brought into play to determine the level of block grants each
RDC would receive. (This innovation would feed into the process, to be pursued more
directly under the proposed LGCDP, of establishing an equitable and sustainable
revenue sharing system (including block grants based on RDC poverty levels and own-
source revenue potential) to promote Government's decentralization objectives.) All
aspects of DDG operations were to be codified in the Project's Operational Manual.
Adoption of the final version of this manual was to be a condition of credit
effectiveness and the manual was to be incorporated by reference in the credit
agreement.
District Development Loans (DDLs) (US$4.5 million ITF financing) were the second
financing mechanism included in the Capital Development Component of the RDCCBP.
The DDLs have been designed to meet the needs of the more efficiently managed RDCs
which already have demonstrated capacity to manage loans and require larger amounts
of development capital than are available through the DDGs. The component therefore
included a relatively modest provision for lending (up to US$0.50 million per Council)
to bankable RDCs in the first two years of program operation. The procedures
governing lending under the RDC Pilot Project would build upon systems established
within MLGRUD (now MLGPW&NH) as part of the Bank-financed Urban II Project
(Urban Sector and Regional Development Project, Loan No. 3079-ZIM), including the
standard borrowing capacity and project appraisal procedures and documentation.
Lending would follow terms established in the Public Sector Investment Program
(PSIP) as agreed under the Urban II Project. These procedures were incorporated into
the Operational Manual utilizing similar criteria already defined for DDGs, with the
important addition of RDC borrowing capacity analysis and documentation.
Decentralization Policy Support (US$0.50 million ITF financing) was the final
element of the Capital Development Component of the RDCCBP. Over the first two
years of the RDCCBP operations, critical policies were to be developed to sustain
implementation of Government's decentralization agenda. Support for this effort would
be channeled to the existing CBU and address the agenda defined in the Government's
Decentralization Policy Letter. This agenda would focus largely upon three key areas:-
(i) international experience in successful (and unsuccessful) intergovernmental fiscal
reform and strategies for potential application in the Zimbabwe context; (ii) other areas
of intergovernmental relations of importance to fostering local authority autonomy,
such as opportunities for increasing development of revenue sharing mechanisms which
wean local authorities from dependence on central budgetary support over time while
- 5 -



taking into account equity and incentives for improved performance (particular
emphasis will be placed upon - again, in line with stated Government policy -
opportunities for increasing private sector financing participation in the financing and
provision of key services and infrastructure); and (iii) close monitoring of the RDC
Pilot implementation process for RDC investment financing. This monitoring would
include compliance with the process arrangements agreed with the Bank through the
Project operational manual, as well as timely submission of financial audits for fiscal
years 1997/98 and 1999.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of project preparation, there was no evaluation by QAG of quality at entry.
However, the project objectives were consistent with the 1994 CAS which focused on
four basic areas, including infrastructure to support growth and expand economic
participation, and human resource investment and capacity building. The Project
supported capacity building and infrastructure financing in the newly formed RDCs are
was thus clearly consistent with the CAS of that time. Shortly after appraisal, a new
CAS was submitted to the Board on May 1, 1997. It called a for a more selective
support of the Government's development goals. One of the key features of the
assistance strategy was the greater use of pilot operations and adaptable project designs.
The Project was a strong example of this, a pilot project incorporating innovative
procedures to facilitate disbursements and promote learning by doing which would
provide Government with important lessons for the process of decentralization. The
CAS also highlighted areas of focus for Bank efforts, including rural development and
the development of human capital, both of which were supported by the Project.
At the time of appraisal, the Government had already launched the RDC Capacity
Building Program and was committed to its expansion. The effort had attracted
significant donor support (UNDP, UK, Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark). The Bank
was invited to participate in the on-going effort. The Bank's support to the program
was critical to its success primarily for two reasons: (a) to provide investment finding
as an incentive for institutional and human resource strengthening (financed by other
donors) on a broad and substantial scale; and (b) to bring international best practices to
the policy dialogue on decentralization.
Through the Project Operational Manual (referenced in the credit agreement), the
Bank's safeguard policy with respect to environmental concerns, that the activities
under the Project "do no harm" environmentally was highlighted. In appraising sub-
projects for DDG and DDL financing, RDCs were required to complete an
- 6 -



environmental impact assessment checklist3 for each of their sub-projects, which were
in turn reviewed at the provincial level. Furthermore, in January 2000, after a
thorough review of the Operational Manual by all stakeholders, a further poverty
impact assessment checklist was introduced for use in the appraisal process.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project, as a pilot, is considered satisfactory in the achievement of its development
objective, which is "to develop the capacity ofRural District Councils (RDCs) to plan,
implement and manage the sustainable delivery of essential services by providing RDCs
with access toifunds necessary to provide critical services and infrastructure, and
creating incentives for improved RDC performance, " for the following reasons.
As a pilot project, it was not anticipated that all 57 implementing RDCs, 8 Provincial
Monitoring and Evaluation sub-committees and the national level would be able to meet
the fairly rigorous standards for improved management set by the Project from the very
outset. However, what was anticipated, was that when mistakes were made, they would
be clearly and timeously identified and rectified for the future - and to a large extent that
was achieved under the Project, although as will be discussed, there was room for
improvement.
At the time that the capital development component of the RDCCBP (RDC Pilot
Project) became effective, the institutional development component of the RDCCBP
had already been effective for 11 months. The human resources component of the
RDCCBP became effective some seven months later. Although the latter became
operational later than originally planned by the program, its delayed start up allowed
for a degree of learning by RDCs of actual needs based on planning and implementation
of sub-projects and as a result, more focused identification of training needs.
With all three components of RDCCBP operating effectively in tandem, the Council
planning and appraisal processes of sub-projects were highly iterative, with timely
questioning of how Councils were setting priorities, what the likely impacts of sub-
projects would be, and the most efficient means of implementing the sub-projects of
their choice. All sub-projects were screened at the Provincial and then National levels,
but neither of the higher levels had the authority to reject sub-projects, only to offer
advice to the RDCs. As such, there was strong ownership of the sub-projects among
the RDCs, both when they were successfully implemented and when they were less
than successful.
One of the fundamental operating principles of the adopted 'learning by doing'
approach, is the use of transparent performance incentives. Those Councils that adhere
3 The checklist was derived from the proceedings of an environmental impact assessment workshop
sponsored by the Association of Rural district Councils, in which Project officers from 19 RDCs attended.
- 7-



to pre-agreed 'rules of the game' (as set out in the Operational Manual and consistent
with requirements of the RDC Act), were to be rewarded by an increased level of
funding in future years. Those Councils that failed to fulfill basic eligibility and
performance standards, were to be either disqualified from future funding (failed
eligibility) or penalized in the amounts allocated (poor performance).
The capital development component of the RDCCBP attempted to be as inclusive as
possible in the first two years, so as to provide DDG funding to as many councils as
possible and extend the "learning by doing" process. In Year 1, the DDG eligibility
criteria were limited to the Council having:
a) a substantive CEO and EO (Finance) in place and if either were in an acting capacity,
that the MLGNH (through the Provincial Administrator) vouchsafed that the acting staff
were appropriately qualified and competent;
b) an EO (Projects/Works);
c) an accounting system in place which conforms with the RDC Accounting Handbook;
and;
d) signed a Grant Participation Agreement.
From Year 2 and for both years for DDL funding, in addition the Councils had to have up
to date audited financial accounts.
In Year 1, all 57 Councils participated in the DDG component of the Project, although
the eligibility criteria were not applied rigorously from the central level. For example,
about 25 percent of RDCs had acting CEOs and 30 percent had Acting EOs (Finance)
but the high proportion of acting staff was somewhat glossed over by the Ministry (see
the Second Six-Monthly Review Report of September 30, 1998). Little account of the
qualifications and experience of the acting staff was made during the first year of activity
by the Provincial Administrators, as required by the Operational Manual. Similarly,
some 28 Councils were known to have financial accounts which were not up to date and
therefore did not comply with the standards set in the RDC Accounting Handbook. This
was the first time that such criteria were systematically introduced and monitored at the
RDC level, countrywide.
In Year 2 of the Project, all Councils were required to have up to date audited accounts in
order to be eligible for DDG funding (and DDL funding). The increased performance
requirement in itself provided opportunity for learning by doing at both national and sub-
national levels. For example, towards the end of the first year, when it became apparent
that only 14 of the Councils (25 percent) had up to date audits and could be eligible in
January 1999 for second year DDG allocations, there was a tendency at the Provincial
and National levels to pull back from this fundamental eligibility (and statutory)
requirement. For example, the second Six-Monthly Review Report called for a "revisit
of the qualification criteria for the next round of DDGs as it appears a mammoth task for
the RDCs which do not qualify to update their financial statements". The report went on
to state that "A good number of RDCs will be unable to raise their 50% contributions to
- 8 -



the Baseline Audit Support component4 and fear that they are being put in an impossible
situation".
Recognizing the financial difficulties faced by a number of RDCs (about 27) which did
not have audited accounts, IDA and GOZ agreed that a transitional arrangement would be
needed to assist the councils. It was agreed that for FY99 only, once a Council signed a
firm contract to have its accounts audited, it would be considered eligible for the DDG
drawdown (provided the other criteria were met) and would not have to wait for the audit
to have been completed. In addition, those Councils which did not even have up to date
financial statements (22 in number), would be eligible to receive 50 % of the DDG
allocation as soon as they signed a firm contract for the preparation of their financial
statements (and met the other criteria in the OM). The remaining 50% DDG allocation
would only be released once the Council had signed a contract for the audit. However,
the Project Operational Manual was in no way changed for this once off relaxation of the
audit requirement and in the following year, maintaining up to date audits remained as a
key management performance indicator for access of development funds by Councils.
To have relaxed the audit eligibility criterion beyond this transitional short period, would
have undermined the statutory provisions of the RDC Act, but also undermined those 29
Councils that had managed to update their financial statements in readiness of being
audited and those 14 Councils which had not waited for Ministry and donor assistance
but which had hired their own auditors.
TIhus the Project proved to be sufficiently inclusive in its early years to offer all RDCs,
irrespective of resource base or starting institutional capacity, the opportunity of
participating in the Project. In the third year, FY2000, a comprehensive set of
performance criteria for DDG funding was developed at the District and Provincial levels
and adopted at the national CBCC. The criteria cover a broad range of institutional and
project implementation performance indicators. All Councils are evaluated on an annual
basis and classified (from 1 - 6) with associated levels of funding.
However, in the last two months of the Project, due to the rapidly deteriorating national
security and economic situation, the project was unable to continue performing in
accordance with its objectives. Specifically, on May 16, 2000, shortly before the
Ministry lodged its application for a first draw down on FY2000 DDG funds for 36
RDCs, based on the newly introduced performance based system, all IDA disbursements
to Zimbabwe were suspended, due to a 60 day repayment default on the part of GOZ.
The impact of the suspension on the RDCCBP was severe. In previous years of the
Project, DDG financing had been front-loaded with grant funds from the Netherlands and
Swedish governments. As a result, IDA funds were to have contributed substantially
(82%) to FY2000 DDGs.
As a result of the suspension, the Ministry found that it had only US$2.17 million from
bilateral sources available out of a total US$11.3 million required. To compound the
4 Under Category 3 of the ITF, the Bank, together with the Netherlands Govermment, financed 50% of the
costs of external audits; the remaining 50% was met by the Councils themselves.
-9-



severity of the impact, the substantial shortfall occurred in the first year in which rigorous
performance criteria were introduced. Councils now were being penalized irrespective of
their past performance and irrespective of their efforts to ensure ongoing eligibility under
the Project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
District Development Grants (DDGs)
The District Development Grants component has been implemented satisfactorily.
In FY1997/98, a total of Z$70.11 million was disbursed to 57 RDCs, each RDC receiving
an equal block grant allocation of Z$1.23 million. The 1997/98 DDG allocations were
made entirely from bi-lateral sources. In FY1999, 56 of the 57 RDCs each received
block grant allocations of up to Z$4.2 million. In FY1999, IDA financed 67% of the
DDG allocations.
Shortly before the May 16 disbursement suspension, 36 RDCs had submitted 270 DDG
sub-projects to a value of Z$308,989,822 (US$8.13m) to the national level for funding,
subject to meeting eligibility criteria. A further 12 RDCs had undertaken DDG-related
emergency repair works on infrastructure damaged by the February Cyclone Eline to an
amount of US$13,200. However, in that a request for FY2000 DDGs had not been
submitted to IDA prior to the May 16, 2000 suspension, payments could not be made.
As at December 31, 1999, six months before the Project Closing Date, there were 872
sub-projects to a value of US$8.255 million planned and appraised at the District and
Provincial levels in all 57 of the RDCs. A total of 476 sub-projects had been completed
and 174 were under implementation. The national average completion rates for the 1998
DDG sub-projects were: 95 percent physically complete and 90 percent financially
complete. Completion rates for the 1999 DDG sub-projects were: 28 percent physically
complete and 32 percent financially complete. The slow implementation progress in
FY1999 DDG performance was largely attributable to late disbursements made to the
Councils (in part due to Councils themselves slipping slightly in their planning calendars,
referrals back to RDCs from the provincial and national levels for re-appraisal or
additional data.) However, progress in implementation picked up considerably in the first
quarter of FY2000.
In Year 1 of the Project, the median number of sub-projects undertaken per Council was
six. The large number of sub-projects per Council provided ample opportunity for
Councils to 'learn-by-doing'. However, the administrative burden of monitoring the sub-
projects at the provincial and national levels (the median number of sub-projects per
province was 44 (ranging from 21 in Matabeleland South to 149 in Mashonaland East)
did become apparent during the course of the Project.
The Project mid-term review concluded that additional resources and budgets were
required at the provincial level to meet this need. Other remedial measures also were
mooted, such as RDCs employing more in-house technical capacity (in the form of an
- 10-



engineer and or physical planner, as is being introduced in all RDCs under the SIDA
funded 'Young Engineers Project'), greater use by Councils of private sector consultants
in design and monitoring and strengthened partnerships between Councils and NGOs.
Ultimately, the model for decentralization developed by GOZ will dictate the extent to
which the provincial level will need to be strengthened for implementing and monitoring
projects or adapted to a new role of 'auditing' the activities of Councils.
The 'learning-by-doing' benefits of the Project was reflected in the size of sub-projects
being implemented by the Councils. Whereas the average sub-project value under
FY1997/98 DDGs was small (under US$5,200), the average value under FY1999 DDGs
had nearly trebled (to US$14,551), indicating an increased confidence and competence
within the Councils to undertake larger projects.
No restrictions were placed on Councils as to investment sectors that could be financed
under the Project, other than that they be investments of a capital nature and that they be
within the legal mandate of Councils. The sub-project investments implemented were
largely responsive to basic need demands and broad in nature and can be judged as being
"responsive to welfare, growth and development in rural areas". In 1999, of the DDG
funded sub-projects, 22% were in agriculture and veterinary services, 17% income
generating, 15% in health, 15% in water supplies, 13% in roads and 9% in education.
Furthermore, although the Operational Manual only required that at least 10% of DDG be
earmarked for community projects5, in 1999, 47% in number and 23% in value of DDG
sub-projects were community projects.
The following excerpt from GOZ's Fourth Six Monthly RDCCB Program Review
Report (January 1 - September 30, 1999), summarizes the key lessons learnt and
recommendations from the DDG process:
"Although RDCs are increasingly selecting projects that
benefit the more marginalized sectors of their communities
there is now a great need for comprehensive strategic
District Development Plans. These should be mandatory
from year 2001 and projects should be referenced to them.
Ideally, PMEs should appraise these plans as a whole.
Most RDCs are greatly improving their project planning and
implementation skills although further attention and support
5 "Community Projects" are defined in the OM as 'projects which originate with and will be entirely owned
and maintained by local community groups or organizations (e.g. ward or village development committees,
SDCs, HCCs women's groups, etc.) These projects should ideally, also be drawn from the ward or village
development plans. This condition is designed to encourage community participation in project planning,
implementation and ownership, thus reinforcing the 'bottom up" element of the district planning process,
and to ensure that the benefits of the DDGs are felt at the local level. Particular attention should be given
to the needs of disadvantaged sectors of the population (e.g. women, poor, remote or under-represented
communities), both in the design of project identification procedures and in prioritizing project
applications. Communities will be expected to contribute 20% of the cost of the project (in cash or kind)
from their own resources).'
- 11 -



is required in procurement and contract management.
There is still considerable scope for improved record
keeping and the preparation of implementation plans.
RDCs are realizing increasingly that the Implementation
Plan is a tool to help them rather that a bureaucratic
requirement.
The eligibility criteria for DDGs have forced RDCs to
improve their financial management and audits. Whilst
compliance with the Operational Manual has been
reasonable, the key role of DAs and PAs in regulating
RDCs and ensuring that the provisions of the Manual are
being adhered to needs much greater emphasis.
In terms of Community Projects RDCs are clearly
recognizing their earlier mistakes re: inadequate community
consultation and involvement in projects selection.
RDCs need to improve their own internal project monitoring
and build this into the costs of their projects.
The demands of the DDG project appraisal and monitoring
process on the PMEs are high. There is needfor
considerable re-orientation at Provincial level by sector
ministries so they apply themselves more to the needs of the
RDCs and perhaps less to some of their unfunded sector
functions.
the RDC Assessment for the Year 2000 DDGs was very
successful in exposing RDC needs and weaknesses and in
developing pressure within RDCs for improvements. Some
PMEs lacked skills in assessing RDC finance and planning
systems and tended to focus more on physical projects."
District Development Loans (DDLs)
In contrast to the progress made under the DDGs component, the DDL component made
slow progress. Over the course of the Project, only one DDL was actually financed,
shortly before the Project closed. The loan was made to Bindura RDC for US$156,200 for
the purchase of a motorized grader shortly before the Project closed. However, by March
1999, 14 RDCs had prepared DDL applications for a total of 47 sub-projects (primarily
for vehicles and plant, and infrastructure and housing) to the national level. However, for
a number of reasons, the applications were never forwarded through the provincial level
or not approved at the national level. Reasons identified during the course of the project
included:
- 12 -



1.    During the first two years of the project, in addition to their usual duties, the
RDCs were heavily involved in identifying, appraising and implementing DDG
subprojects for the first time. Because of the RDCCBP's emphasis on "learning
by doing", this process was of necessity introspective, reflective and time
consuming. In addition, the HRD component of the RDCCBP, launched in mid-
1998, involved the Councils in a variety of activities (recruiting training officers,
putting in place training needs action plans and training needs assessments). Over
and above the RDCCBP activities, Councils have access to funding from
approximately 15 different special purpose development funds, each with its own
resource trigger mechanism and reporting requirements. As a result, most
Councils have not had the time to focus on DDL applications. The provincial and
national levels of the project have equally been overburdened and in the last six
months of the Project were increasingly involved in matters of a national nature
(preparing for a constitutional referendum and then national parliamentary
elections).
2.    The sections concerning the DDLs, (in particular the loan and repayment
conditions) in the Operational Manual were initially inconsistently written.
Clarifications on, and amendment to the OM to address these inconsistencies were
made in April 1999.
3.    Some Councils felt that the eligibility criteria for DDLs was too onerous, namely
that Councils should have audited accounts and that they should be able to put
down 10 percent of the sub-projects' costs. In addition, the criteria used by the
Ministry in assessing borrowing powers was not clearly defined to the Councils
and many felt that they were being unduly penalized because of existing arrears
on National Housing Fund and General Development Loan Fund loans. The Bank
and the Ministry were in agreement that in principle, a Council which has arrears
should not borrow. However, given the transition that Councils were in following
amalgamation in 1993 (particularly those which inherited arrears), the project
agreed that those Councils which had a proven record of consistently meeting
debt service obligations, could be considered for eligibility for DDL funds,
provided they could meet other eligibility criteria (including an ability to service
the additional proposed debt).
Decentralization Policy Support Component
The consultants services and audits component was satisfactorily implemented.
In April 1997, the Ministry conducted a field survey of all RDCs to ascertain the
availability of audited financial accounts in each of the Councils. The survey found that
only 3 of the 57 RDCs had up to date audited accounts. A further 25 were behind by one
year. The remaining 29 RDCs were behind by between 2 or more years. 26% of the
Councils were behind by three or more years. This serious lack of compliance with the
RDC Act was attributable to a number of factors. In some cases, amalgamated Councils
(formerly District Councils and Rural Councils which had amalgamated in 1993) had
been unable to reconcile the two sets of accounts and so had carried forward unreconciled
opening balances. In some cases too, the Councils were inadequately staffed and were
- 13 -



not able to prepare their financial accounts up to balance sheet level for the audit. In
some cases too, the Councils had little incentive to be audited and there were few if any
punitive or remedial measures taken against Councils which did not comply with the
audit requirements of the Act.
In November 1998 and again in February 2000, IDA issued 'no objections' to Terms of
reference for audits of individual Councils' accounts and the project, together with the
Netherlands Government, provided 50% financing of the costs of external audits for
Councils. As a result, in FY1999, all but one ofthe 57 councils had up to date audits and
by mid-2000, all but eight of the RDCs had once again up to date audited accounts. A
high degree of audit compliance was a significant achievement of the Project. In the
performance criteria introduced in FY2000, maintaining up to date audits was introduced
as a key management perfonnance indicator for future access to development funds by
the Councils. Shortly after the Project closed, the Ministry has also undertaken to prepare
an Action Plan for following up on the management reports of the individual RDC audits.
No further studies or consultancies were financed directly by the Project, although a
number of studies supportive of the Government's decentralization policy formulation
were undertaken in association with the project, financed by bilateral grant funds . The
studies included an Outline of the Decentralization Implementation Strategy, a Vision
Paper for Local Government, a Study on Fiscal Decentralization and a Study of Programs
that Impact on RDCs. The Ministry also prepared TOR for and advertised a study on
mobilizing state lands in growth points, rural service centers and small towns. However,
it was not able to contract the study in sufficient time prior to Project closing.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic rates of return were not calculated at appraisal for this operation. The SAR
stated that
The small and dispersed nature of most of the possible sub-
projects under this component coupled with uncertainty regarding
the exact composition of the capital investments make it
impossible to quantify its expected rates of return using
traditional cost-benefit calculations.
The SAR went on to state that
The project is expected to benefit all 57 of the newly-formed
RDCs through: (i) greater efficiency and equity in the delivery of
infrastructure services, (ii) enhancement of decentralization of
development planning, operation and maintenance
responsibilities of the RDCs, and (iii) empowernent of local
communities by reinforcing the 'bottom up' element of the
district planning process. The impact of improved economic and
social infrastructure would be to raise both the quality of rural
life and improve linkages/reduce costs with local and provincial
markets. Since the majority of Zimbabwe's poor (88 percent)
- 14-



live in rural areas, most of the benefits are expected to accrue to
the poorer sections society.
In late 1999, an economic analysis was undertaken of the RDC Pilot Project. As part of
the assessment, a review was made of the on-going performance of sub-project
appraisal carried out by the RDCs under the RDC Pilot Project, i.e. adherence by local
governments to laid down appraisal procedures in the Operational Manual, as well as
assessing the economic impact as a result of channeling resources to the rural areas. The
assessment concluded "... it is clear that there is increased positive economic impact as a
direct result of the project. The provision of infrastructure is a major achievement of the
project. ... [Furthermore] the cost of implementing these projects is effectively reduced
through the mode of implementation which involves comprehensive provincial review and
monitoring of district level project planning." This has resulted from improvements in
strategic planning being undertaken by the Councils, providing a basis for the more
efficient allocation of resources, increased efficiencies in revenue collection, improved
budgeting and financial control.
In the first two years of implementation, investments undertaken by the RDCs were
spread over a number of sectors, in response to the specific individual priorities of each
district. As December 31, 1999, a total of 872 sub-projects to a value of US$8.3 million
were completed or were being implemented in all 57 RDCs across the country. Nearly
half the sub-projects (by value) were in the sectors of health (20.4 %/o), roads (14.4 %) and
education (14%).
Whilst a quantified cost-benefit analysis has not been carried out due to a lack of data and
the small and dispersed nature of the sub-projects, the following qualitative assessment
can be made:
Roads
Many roads in the RDC jurisdictions at the start of the RDC Project were in a state of
disrepair, mainly due to lack of funds from the central government and limited own-
source funding of the local governments. The availability of RDC Pilot Project DDG
funds have enabled RDCs to rehabilitate roads within their jurisdictions. The benefits
have been many:- vehicle operating cost savings from reduced road roughness; savings in
passenger and goods travel times; improved access to public facilities and markets by
remote rural populations; benefits from savings in road maintenance costs; savings in
accident costs; and benefits in terms of avoided higher costs of later reconstruction.
Water supply
The main water supply sub-projects implemented have been the provision of new
supplies and protection of existing supplies at schools and clinics. The benefits of
providing clean and reliable water supplies have been many:- time- and effort-savings by
the main water carriers (especially women); reduced human and livestock illness caused
by water-borne diseases; a more productive rural population due to increase in quantity
and quality of water; better hygiene practices; and potential long-term medical cost-
savings through reduction in waterborne diseases.
- 15 -



Education and health
The two largest sectoral investments under the RDC Pilot Project have been the
construction and improvement of education and health care facilities. In-school benefits
have included gains in the efficiency of the education system while the out-of-school
benefits include the improvement of the income-earning potential and skills of graduating
students, among others.
The construction of new health clinics has contributed towards decentralized access by
rural populations to preventative as well as curative health care services. The positive
effects would be fewer work days lost through illness and death; increased leisure; higher
quality of life; and reduced household expenditures on medical care and supplementary
food.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not calculated at appraisal for this project. However, a
fundamental sub-project appraisal requirement was that the RDCs demonstrate how the
operation and maintenance costs of the DDG sub-projects be met (and in the case of
DDLs, how the loans would be serviced). In practice, many of the RDCs have found the
maintenance of infrastructure, in particular roads, a difficult challenge, given the high
inflationary environment (69% p.a.) as well as increasing revenue collection problems
(declining real incomes and declining payments of unit taxes -- a form of property tax,
from the commercial farming sector).
In some of the more receptive RDCs, in FY2000, the RDCCBP started to introduce
performance budgeting through Council committees, (rather than the 'control budgeting'
used previously). Where it has been implemented, this has resulted in Councilors taking
responsibility for the activities and outputs of their committees. It has made them better
informed and allowed them to assume greater responsibility at the core of their respective
Councils' decision making. The Ministry is now proposing that performance activity
budgeting, as related to District Strategic Development Plans, should become the focus
of all RDC capacity building activities during FY2000.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
In addition to making resources available, a further benefit of the RDC Pilot Project has
been the experience of learning by doing:- the creation of opportunities to develop and
improve local government capacity in identifying, designing and costing, appraising and
implementing infrastructure sub-projects. Previously, projects were not subjected to any
form of rigorous planning process other than being identified as a need and priority --
implementation tended to be on the basis of 'wish lists' rather than according to any form
of strategic planning.
The process of building capacity in the area of appraisal is now being achieved and there
is evidence that procedures built and lessons learned from the RDC Pilot Project are
being transferred to other investment projects being undertaken by the RDCs. This is
- 16 -



evidenced, for example, by the recent harmonization of operational manuals used by five
of the World Bank supported Projects.
In addition, the six-monthly District and Provincial reviews of the RDCCBP no longer
report exclusively on progress made under the Program itself, but through a review of the
total RDC budget, take an overall review of RDC performance, encompassing all
development activities being undertaken by the RDcs, including CAP, RDF, IRWSS,
Campfire, DEAP, etc. This will result in more efficiently designed and managed sub-
projects by the local governments. The incentive structure to local governments under
the RDC Pilot, and in particular in the third year, is such that it has provided strong
incentives to local governments to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver services to their
constituents and to create greater involvement by residents in local governance.
In September 2000, the MLGPW&NH reported that "The RDCCBP has succeeded in
exposing RDC weaknesses and in getting RDCs to recognize and take responsibility for
addressing them. Approximately 50% of all RDCs have made a strong commitment to
change, and RDCCBP now intends to respond with a narrower focus on intensive
support to their criticalfinancial and planning functions".
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project design assumed significant co-financing and parallel financing to the Project. The
complementary financing was provided as designed for four of the five years (last year is
currently under review) and had a positive impact on project implementation (see section
8 below). The institutional component of the RDCCBP (US$17.04 million over five
years) will have funded 215 person years of Zimbabwean consultancy input, 34 years
person of international Technical Cooperation input, studies and equipment over the
course of the five year RDCCBP. The human resources development component of the
RDCCBP (US$4.12 million) is delivering basic skills and functional training at national,
provincial, district and sub-district levels.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A number of factors under the government's control impacted negatively on project
implementation. The factors fall into three main subsets:- (a) lack of enforcement of
statutory and policy provisions where they exist; (b) inadequate pace of decentralization
policy development; and (c) unstable operating environment.
Lack of enforcement
Regular and well-structured monitoring of program and project implementation was
carried out through the course of the project (six-monthly reviews, regular IDA
supervision missions) to monitor compliance of implementing agencies with both the
statutory provisions of the Rural District Councils Act as well as with the Project
Operational Manual. Under the performance based incentive system of the project, it was
- 17-



important that any non-compliance be timeously acted upon, not only to ensure the
integrity of the DCA provisions but also so that Councils learnt from past mistakes.
However, there were a number of areas in which the central ministry did not act as
strongly as might have been called for. For example, the submission of audited financial
accounts by every RDC on an annual basis, although a requirement of the Act, was only
explicitly required of Councils during the course of the Project and only enforced in Year
2, and then, the requirement is only that an audit be submitted, rather than that a 'clean'
audit be submitted. Once submitted, it was found that a number of the audits contained a
range of observations and reservations about the financial discipline of some Councils.
Only recently has the Ministry started to review these audits in detail and has agreed to
formulate an action plan to systematically follow up on the findings with individual
Councils. In particular, it is not yet a requirement under the RDC Act (as it is under the
Urban Councils Act), that RDCs establish Audit Committees to respond to audit findings.
Of particular concern, is the recurring and seemingly intransigent problem of staffing
within the RDCs. Under the Project, a basic eligibility criterion was that the RDC had to
be fully staffed with respect to a CEO, EO (Finance) and EO (Projects/Works) (or the
Provincial Administrator was required to vouchsafe that any acting member of staff was
appropriately qualified and competent). Although all Councils were able to satisfy this
requirement in both Years 1 and 2 of the Project, at least one third of the Councils have
acting staff in these key positions and in numerous cases, the Councils are embroiled in
protracted legal battles to dismiss and replace staff .
The extent of this problem is illustrated by the staffing situation in Mashonaland East
Province, a province generally acknowledged as being one of the best performing under
the Project. Out of nine RDCs in the Province, only three have substantive CEOs (in one
case, the acting CEO has been acting for the past five years as the Council has been
unable to dismiss the suspended CEO), only five have substantive EOs (Works), of
whom two also act in other positions, and only four have substantive EOs (Finance), two
of whom are still on probation. Similar conditions pertain in other provinces. For
example, in Mashonaland Central, the average length of service of the incumbent CEOs
is 5 months and 5.5 months for EOs (Finance). The causes of these problems are
numerous (inherited staff with inappropriate qualifications and skills, bias by Councils to
hire staff on the basis of area of residence rather than merit, non-existent or inappropriate
job descriptions, non-existent codes of conduct, lack of adherence to laid down dismissal
procedures). However, it is clear that the central ministry has failed to provide strong
direction and guidance to Councils, and where it has been approached to intervene in
particular cases of dismissal, it has not always been able to either resolve the conflict or
resolve it in a timely way. By allowing this problem to drift on, the Councils' budgets are
impacted (by paying salaries of both suspended and acting staff), and the learning-by-
doing impact of the Project is compromised. Recently, the Ministry has moved to rectify
the situation by introducing an amendment to the RDC Act whereby all labor issues
concerning senior council employees will be dealt with by the Local Government Board
(as is done in the case of Urban Councils) rather than through the labor laws.
- 18-



Uneven pace of decentralization policy development
The pace of administrative/institutional and financial decentralization and the
commitment of the central government to decentralization is strong. On the one hand,
both the Urban Councils Act and the RDC Act, provide for a broad range of service
delivery responsibilities at the local government level. Furthermore, an active inter-
Ministerial Capacity Building Coordination Committee has been established. The
CBCC has commissioned a number of sector decentralization action plans (for health,
education and the public services), has prepared a document entitled "an Outline of the
Decentralization Implementation Strategy" which has been approved by the Working
Party of Permanent Secretaries, and has undertaken a study of the numerous programs
targeted at sustainable rural development that impact on RDCs. In addition, the
MLGPW&NH has prepared a Vision Paper of Local Government in Zimbabwe that
clearly sets out the nature and role of local government and the proposed relationship
between central and local government levels. (Although the Paper has yet to receive
Cabinet review or approval.
However, what is less clear, is the central government's vision for and commitment to
fiscal transfers and revenue sharing with local government tiers, providing the resources
to local governments to carry out their service mandates on a sustainable basis. The
Vision paper for local governments does not make mention of fiscal decentralization or
of how sub-national governments are to be resourced. The Urban Councils are currently
reeling in a short term debt trap, in large part due to the decentralization of unfunded
health and education mandates to them. The RDCs too, whilst awash with off-budget,
donor funds for special purpose projects, find that close to 90 percent of their own-source
revenues are used to finance expenditures, largely salaries. They have inadequate
resources to retrench inadequately skilled staff and to restructure themselves, and so are
trapped in non-performing organizations. Whilst the Councils themselves have started to
address these problems (unfunded mandates, restructuring, etc.), their efforts will need to
be matched by a parallel process of developing a sound intergovernmental fiscal transfer
system, if the local tier of government is to be sustainable. Some progress was made
under the project in addressing the fiscal decentralization agenda through a study on
Fiscal Decentralization funded by the Bank-supported regional initiative undertaken by
the National Association of Local Authorities of Denmark.
Unstable operating environment
In Year 3 of the Project, the general operating environment in the country deteriorated as
a result of political activity at the national level. This had a negative impact on aspects of
the Project's implementation.
In the first place, as a result of the government's so-called "fast track land reform
program", the already precarious level of RDC revenue base was further undermined.
Many councils raised fears that under the program, commercial farms were increasingly
reluctant to pay unit taxes (property taxes) which was impacting negatively on their
revenues. In addition, whereas the expectations of commercial farms for service
provision were largely limited to access roads, resettled communities would expect the
RDCs to provide a wide range of services, including public and private access roads,
- 19 -



schools, clinics and boreholes. These settlers would not be able to pay full cost recovery
for the services nor had the central govermnent indicated that it would be transferring
resources to the Councils to pay for the developments.
A further concern is that particularly in Year 3 (February 2000 onwards), project
management became increasingly difficult due to the political climate. In the months
leading up to the elections (held in June 2000), public meetings in many areas could not
be held due to intimidation. As a result, project site visits, community meetings, and
similar activities could not be held. Furthermore, fuel shortages and national referendum
and then election responsibilities meant that provincial monitoring teams did not meet
and did not carry out their project functions. Of late, large areas of the country
(commercial farming areas) have become 'no go' areas to Bank supervision missions.
This is as a result of calls by the national leadership (including the Minister of Local
Government) to ruling party supporters not to await the government's "fast track"
resettlement program (itself currently the subject of a Supreme Court application to
consider its constitutionality), but to move onto commercial farms. In addition, in some
communal areas in the north and west of the country, ruling party supporters are burning
down homesteads in villages to prevent those who have invaded the commercial farms
from subsequently returning to their original homesteads. Due diligence on project
supervision under these conditions was increasingly difficult.
5. 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In Year 1 of the project, the average size of sub-project implemented by the RDCs with
DDG funds was a small US$5,000. However, by Year 2, the average size of sub-projects
increased to some US$14,000 and some were larger still. As a general observation, most
RDCs are poorly equipped with procurement knowledge and staff with procurement
skills. As a result, procurement was not as efficient as it might have been and
procurement decisions were made by committees and tended to be slow and cumbersome
(and subsequently costly, given high inflation). The implementing agency itself was not
proactive with respect to monitoring procurement processes and decisions nor in
monitoring contract supervision by the Councils. Only in January 2000 were more
detailed guidelines and procedures drawn up and included in the Operational manual.
Communications between the central and local tiers of government were not always
direct and in some cases gave rise to misunderstandings and affected Project progress.
For example, the 10% allocations to be made to 'community projects' was variously
interpreted, especially in Year 1 and caused a lot of misunderstanding amongst Councils
who subsequently put forward sub-projects that they did not fully support, just so as to
meet the Ministry's own interpretation of what was required. Also of concern was that in
Year 3, the causes for and impact of the IDA disbursement suspension had not yet been
communicated to RDCs by September 2000. As a result, most RDCs were expecting to
receive previously agreed DDG allocations and had made no effort to review and scale
back on previous implementation decisions.
- 20 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
Defaults on repayments to foreign debtors, including IDA
Prior to the Project closing date, the Government of Zimbabwe went into a 60-day default
with IDA and consequently, on May 16, 2000, a national suspension of disbursements on
all IDA funded projects was instituted. At the time of the suspension, the MLGPW&NH
had received, but not yet processed for IDA financing, the first applications for FY2000
DDG funding. As a result, the DDG allocations to 36 RDCs, which had submitted 270
sub-projects to a value of US$8.13 million, could not be honored by the Ministry. As a
result of the ongoing loan repayment default (Zimbabwe was placed on non-accrual
status on October 2, 2000), the RDC Pilot Project closed and the proposed successor
project, the Local Government Capital Development Project, although negotiated in April
2000, cannot be taken to the IDA Board for approval.
The impact has been significant. The Netherlands and Swedish Governments, as co-
financiers of the capital component, have indicated a willingness to partially finance
DDGs in FY2000 up to an amount of US$2.1 million. The GOZ will also contribute
US$250,000. However, the total amount available from these sources only provides
20%6 of the DDG allocations. Given that this year has been the first year in which
Council allocations have been made on the basis of performance criteria, the way in
which GOZ now distributes the limited funds amongst all eligible Councils will be
extremely important, if the better performing Councils are to continue to receive
incentive for good management in the future.
Poor macro-economic management
A further factor which has affected the Project has been the deteriorating economy and
increasing rate of inflation. Under conditions of high inflation, Councils have found it
extremely difficult to budget accurately for sub-projects and has also resulted in slow
implementation progress of some sub-projects as cost overruns by contractors had to be
verified and supplementary funding found to complete projects.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
For this project, evaluation of sustainability may be separated into two views. First is an
evaluation from a sectoral, project specific point of view. From this point of view, the
process of strengthening the capacity of a significant number of the RDCs to plan,
implement and manage the sustainable delivery of essential services, and creating
incentives for improved RDC performance, has been achieved under the pilot project.
Many councils have introduced appraisal methods introduced under the RDC Pilot
Project to other capital development programs; about half the councils are being
6 Based on US$ tied disbursement allocations. However, if GOZ makes the allocations at a lower exchange
rate, available financing will cover 28% of FY2000 requirement.
- 21 -



externally audited on timely basis; a number have embarked on internal restructuring
exercises to strengthen service delivery (as distinct from past administrative practices)
and related own-source revenue collection operations. Mistakes have been made and a
number of Councils have fallen short of the performance targets set by the project (for
example, in transparency of financial management). However generally, where these
mistakes have been made, steps have been taken to rectify them. The benefits of a
'learning-by-doing' process are now well-rooted at both national and local government
levels.
The significant institutional strengthening that has taken place in at least 50% of the
RDCs, and the restructuring that is currently being embarked upon by the councils
themselves, bodes well for the future. From this point of view, the project can be
evaluated as sustainable.
However, from the view of the current operating environment in the country, the project
is not sustainable. IDA has placed Zimbabwe under a non-accrual status and as such,
cannot take the proposed Local Government Capital Development Project to the Board
for approval and to provide continuity of financing to DDG block grants for RDC capital
investments. The Government itself is unable to finance block grant allocations to the
RDCs (it has been able to finance only one of the 57 RDCs in FY2000) and bilateral
donors have either scaled back on their allocations or are unwilling to fund the project
activities beyond their already committed closing dates. The Borrower's plan for the
future funding and operation of the project indicates that without a further IDA
contribution, only one tenth of the financing needs of the DDGs will be met by GOZ and
bilaterals.
Furthermore, political instability across the country has severely undermined the integrity
of the Project. In one province, the Provincial Administrator (chair of the Provincial
Monitoring and Evaluation Committee tasked with the appraisal of sub-projects at the
district level) has been driven out of office by war veterans and was offered no protection
of her post by either the parent Ministry or Public Service Commission. The autonomy
of elected local governments also is under pressure by appointed Provincial Governors
with increasing calls to implement projects for local political gain rather than in
accordance with agreed operational manuals and transparent selection criteria. Large
scale population upheavals (as a result of large scale bussing of ruling party supporters
onto commercial farms and burning of homesteads in communal areas), also renders
transparent planning and prioritizing of sub-projects increasingly difficult.
In addition, the high inflationary environment makes the appraising, costing and
implementation of sub-projects' investments by the RDCs increasingly risky.
Therefore, from a broader national and macro-economic point of view, the sustainability
of the project is evaluated as unlikely. However, the existing national situation cannot
last forever. Once the macro-economic environment improves to a point where IDA is
able to restore borrowing rights to the country, and there is a return to the rule of law, the
past performance of the local government tier would be a sound springboard for future
operations in the local government sector. Under the conditions of improve macro-
economic environment and conditions of relative social stability, the ICR team
concluded that a rating of Likely Sustainability is appropriate for this project.
- 22 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Netherlands, Swedish and Zimbabwe Governments have agreed to finance between
10 -20% of FY2000 DDGs. The Netherlands Government will also provide limited
funding (NLG2.5 million per year) to DDGs in FY2001 and 2002.
The Swedish Government will continue to finance the HRD component of the RDCCBP
in FY2000.
DFID have confirmed funding for the ID component of the RDCCBP until December
31, 2000 and have recently agreed to continue funding the institutional support
component of the RDCCBP, albeit with a 40% reduction in the original budget, until
September 2001.
The Bank has successfully negotiated the first three year phase of a 12 year adaptable
audit program approach, Local Government Capital Development Project, with GOZ
(April 2000). One of the three main components of the LGCDP is the
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations Component which builds upon the positive lessons
of the RDC Pilot Project and would provide continuity of funding to DDGs for FY2001
through FY2003. However, under the current country conditions, this project has not
been submitted to the Board.
There are no further transitional arrangements yet in place.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory. The project built on the experience of an ODA (now DFID) funded Pilot
District Support Project (PDSP) which ran in Mberengwa and Gokwe districts (Midlands
Province) from 1989 - 1995 as well as previous support for local development activities
funded by SIDA and NORAD. The GOZ launched its five year Rural District Council
Capacity Building Program in November 1994, which seeks to enhance the effectiveness
of public sector reform at the local government level, extending the lessons of these
previous experiences to all 57 RDCs in the country.
In addition, during project design, the Bank built on its 12 years of experience in the local
government sector in Zimbabwe, gained through the first Urban Development Project
(Ln. 2445-ZIM) and the second Urban Infrastructure and Regional Development Project7
' C.f. Banes Dawes Associates (May 1997), "Zimbabwe: Transferring Urban It Lessons Learned to the
Design of rural District Councils Capacity Building Project (RDCCBP) and Local Government
Development Project (LGDP)"; report prepared for The World bank and ODA/IUK.
- 23 -



(Ln. 3079-ZIM). A key lesson learned from the experience was that Zimbabwe's local
governments have the capacity to respond to initiatives and to improve their performance.
There was a clearly identified need to support the capital development component of the
RDCCBP for an initial period from July 1997 to June 2000 (the project became effective
on February 4, 1998). The capacity level in the newly formed RDCs was fragile and
would be strengthened over time. The RDC Pilot operation should consolidate lessons
learned for effective incorporation in a more ambitious follow-on project, the LGCDP.
The preparation process and final design of the Project were highly participatory,
seeking to maximize input and beneficiary ownership. The RDCCBP was a direct
outgrowth of an extensive series of policy reforms, analyses and pilot project
undertaken in Zimbabwe over seven years. At the core of these actions has been the
incremental approach taken by GoZ in articulating its decentralization policy which, for
the rural sector, found particular focus through the Forum for Rural Development
(1991-94). RDCCBP preparation also benefited from exemplary donor coordination
which funded two years of support for the Capacity Building Unit (CBU) in MLGRUD.
The CBU in turn carried out a systematic process of consultation with all RDCs and
Provinces in designing the program. The project itself was designed to support RDC
investment programs that are derived from a series of consultations at the village
(VIDCO), ward (WADCO) and provincial levels. In addition, at least 10 percent of
each annual District Development Grant was earmarked for community designed and
implemented projects, in conjunction with the Human Resources Development
Component's focus on sub-district community planning and mobilization.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank carried out six supervision missions and a joint GOZ/IDA/donor mid-term
review during the Pilot Project. In addition, support was available at the Country Office
in Zimbabwe for follow up activities and policy guidance between formal missions, for
resolution of procurement issues and on general project issues. Bank staff visited at least
half of the participating RDCs, and attended at least one (and up to three) of each of the
eight Provincial Review Meetings attended by all RDCs, DAs, PAs, PMEs and PST
Teams. In addition, the Bank attended the six-monthly review meetings held at the
national level.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was considered satisfactory and supervision missions were
welcomed by government as a means of assisting in the resolution of more difficult issues
first hand in the field. The Bank managed to achieve some mission member continuity
throughout the course of preparation and implementation and through its Country Office
staff.
- 24 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory with few problems
encountered by missions during the preparation cycle. Negotiations for the Project were
held in Harare. As a result, the Government was broadly represented at negotiations and
the depth of discussion between the Bank and Government teams provided a sound
footing for the commencement of the Project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The start up of the actual Pilot Project was delayed by 8 months (from approval on May
29, 1997 to effectiveness on February 4, 1998) as a result of a delay by the Attorney
General's Office issuing a legal opinion confirming that the Annual Participation
Agreements to be signed by the RDCs would be legally binding. All other conditions
for effectiveness had been submitted by the MLG&NH (Operational Manual,
Implementation Manual and Participation Agreements) promptly. However, in that the
bilateral grants funds from the Netherlands and Swedish Governments were triggered in
September 1997, DDG allocations for FY1997 got underway prior to the DCA
becoming effective and only minimal slippage was experienced on the ground.
In the first year of implementation, there was a degree of tension between the central
government agencies represented at district and provincial levels (through the DAs and
PAs) and the RDCs, largely attributable to the changing power positions between the
levels of government. The result was a degree of reticence initially on the part of the
DAs and PAs to participate fully in the Capacity Building Program and accusations by
the RDCs that MLG supervision, through the PAs and DAs, tended to be arrogant.
However, by Year 2 of the project, these tensions appear to be resolved, particularly at
the provincial levels, although the changed role of District Administrators from
managers to 'auditors' requires clarification and acceptance.
The first two years of the project were also affected by management ambiguity in relation
to the inter-Ministerial Capacity Building Coordinating Committee (CBCC). The CBCC
was initially mandated with overall management of the RDCCBP but its decisions were
frequently overruled by the MLG. The issue was finally resolved when the CBCC's role
was reduced to that of inter-ministerial decentralization policy coordination and the MLG
accepted management responsibility of the program. However, throughout the life of the
Project, communication of both policy and operational advice to RDCs from the central
level has been poor.
A difficulty that was experienced, however, was the administrative burden of the projects
at all three tiers of government. Whilst the large number of sub-projects undertaken each
year per Council provided ample opportunity for Councils to "leam by doing", at the
- 25 -



Provincial level in particular, where the median number of projects per province is 448,
there are signs of capacity constraints with respect to appraisal and monitoring functions.
Throughout the course of the Project, there were calls for the Project directly to provide
additional resources to provinces (vehicles, office equipment and operating budgets),
particularly to the Provincial Administrators' offices (finally provided at the end of 1999
through the DFID funded Provincial Institutional Support Project). However, what was
less well explored, was the need and feasibility for both Provincial and District offices to
focus only on core functions, and for the RDCs to actively contract out to the private
sector some of the design and costing functions that have traditionally been solely
executed by central government line Ministries.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The RDCs were the implementing agencies responsible for the identification, selection,
planning, design, procurement and implementation of sub-projects. The Councils
generally performed satisfactorily (as evidenced by the large number of sub-projects
successfully implemented on the ground by the end of the first 18 months). However,
there are obviously great variations between the large number of Councils, based on both
differences in resource bases as well as differences in their organizational cultures and
modus operandi. A performance assessment carried out on all Councils at the end of
FIY1999 by District and provincial task teams, classified the 57 RDCs in to six discreet
performance bands. Twenty eight of the 57 Councils (49%/o) were classified as being in
high performing bands 5 and 6. A further 14 Councils (25%) were classified in the
moderately high band 4. The remaining 26% of Councils were in the lowest three bands
of performance, with only two councils in the lowest band 1.
Over the course of the project, the extent to which the Project was building capacity
within Councils through a learning-by-doing approach (as indicated by compliance with
the agreed procedures of the Operational Manual and the Development Credit
Agreement) was continually assessed by bank supervision missions. In particular, the
following aspects were reviewed:-
*  The eligibility of RDCs to receive DDGs (with respect to having up-to-date audited
accounts, key staff, fully appraised sub-projects and signed Grant Participation
Agreements) as well as the extent to which unutilized funds from the previous year's
disbursements are being withheld
*  The procurement procedures being followed by councils
* Planning and implementation of community sub-projects
* Completion of the General Environmental Checklists as part of the appraisal of sub-
projects.
Overall, the main requirements of the Project were met by implementing institutions, and
where there were instances of lack of compliance, the Ministry instituted timely
corrective measures. (However, as has been discussed above, the situation started to
a The number of subprojects per province ranges from 21 subprojects in Matabeleland South to 149 subprojects
in Mashonaland East.
- 26 -



change in the third year, FY2000 due to a variety of reasons, including increased
eligibility criteria and insecurity in the national operating environment, which tended to
undermine these early lessons).
In December 1999 an analysis was carried out to assess the institutional capacity of the
RDCs to manage potential environmental and social impacts of their sub-projects9. In
reviewing the lessons learned form the project, the study recommended institutional
arrangements based on an examination of the implications of the proposed Environmental
Management Act.
In summary, the study found that environmental screening under the current project
demonstrates many of the flaws typical to EA practice generally. These flaws however,
were amplified by the fact that most project and council personnel are new to the
principles and processes of EA, many experiencing them for the first time. Principal
weaknesses include:
> Generally shallow coverage of environmental issues owing to insufficient
environmental awareness and training
' Smaller councils had found the Operation Manual's 'General Environmental
Checklist' difficult to use
' Failure of Ministry of Local Government and National Housing (MLGNH) to
exercise controls where the extent and quality of environmental aspects of project
appraisal is clearly deficient
> Little evidence of EA influencing the final design or operation of the funded
infrastructure
> Capacity shortfall in Department of Natural Resources affecting the availability of
technical assistance to participating councils
> Failure to follow EA through to environmental management on the ground on
completion of projects
> Weak assessment of social impacts
> Lack of clarity as to who should be responsible for environmental management and
monitoring.
>  The Operations Manual developed for the RDCCBP program has no linkages with
documents and tools which are needed for projects which, after screening, go on to
full EA
O Potential duplication (especially under forthcoming legislation) of EA documentation
destined for the MMET and the program agencies.
However, the study also found a number of strengths in the processes observed:
> A considerable amount of public consultation is inherent in RDCCBP through the
Rural Development Planning process -- this helps address social concerns
> Good inter-agency communication and support is evident -- particularly by DNR at
provincial level
9 The study was carried out to derive lessons from the RDC Pilot project and the Urban 11 Project as an
input to the design of the proposed successor LGCDP Project.
- 27 -



Screening, where it has been carried out, is done early in the project cycle
> Strong interest in EA and a desire to improve performance.
In terms of the Project Credit Agreement, the Capacity Building Unit of the
MLGPW&NH was responsible for overall coordination of implementation of the Project.
Its responsibilities included preparing consolidated annual implementation plans of all
sub-projects, monitoring financial performance, organizing and overseeing ID and HRD
activities, checking local authority statements of expenditure, monitoring preparation and
submission of consolidated audit reports, preparing comprehensive six-monthly reports
including key project tracking tables.
However, the functional responsibilities of the CBU viz-a-viz the MLGPW&NH was less
clear-cut (for example, with respect to financial discipline within Councils.) In addition,
the CBU experienced significant staff turnover during the course of the project (three
National Coordinators - one of which was acting) during the three years. This,
compounded by a lack of previous experience with Bank legal, procurement and
disbursement procedures and requirements meant that at times, reporting standards were
not met. Of considerable concern, was that consolidated audit reports (of the RDCs)
were considerably overdue before they were submitted and supporting documents for
disbursement applications were not always fully submitted. Shortly prior to the May 16,
2000 national disbursement suspension, the Bank had initiated steps to suspend the
project's disbursements due to non-compliance with audit requirements.
Overall, the CBU struggled with a number of the management demands of the project.
Particularly in the last six months of the pilot project, the project Borrower (as
represented by the Ministry of Finance) failed to provide an operating environment
within which the project could continue to perform on a sustainable basis (please refer to
Section 6.1).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance on the project can be evaluated on the basis of the performance at
four levels:-
1. the performance of the RDCs as implementing agencies -- evaluated as satisfactory;
2. the performance of the central Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and
National Housing -- evaluated as satisfactory;
3. the performance of the CBU -- evaluated as unsatisfactory, particularly with respect
to financial management on the project; and
4. the performance of the Government of Zimbabwe as the legal Borrower - evaluated
as unsatisfactory.
- 28 -



Overall Borrower (government) performance was considered unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Local Governments are willing and able to respond positively to performance incentives
although accountability is still weak in some areas
Although capacity building has not occurred without mistakes being made, and has
occurred at an uneven pace in different Councils, overall, the Project has achieved
successes which can be built upon. In large part, this has been due to the strongly
iterative, learning by doing approach promoted through all investment decisions made
and activities undertaken. The following excerpt from a Preliminary Internal
Evaluation of the DFID funded IDP component, summarizes many of the lessons
learned through the course of the RDCCBP and the RDC Pilot Project:-
"Facilitators have used RDC scandals to stimulate demands for
improved RDC performance. Residents associations are
emerging in some districts and making more systematic demands
on councils. Participatory planning is strengthening
communities, which are now demanding more effective
representation by councilors. Some RDCs now publish their
annual plans and budgets for public discussion. Elsewhere,
progress can be seen in transparent participatory district
planning processes, the production of committee budgets that are
understandable to councilors, strongerfinancial monitoring,
ward awareness training workshops, RDC suggestion boxes,
conscious efforts to improve procurement and tendering
procedures, community contracts for community projects, and
improvements in information flows. "
There is need for ongoing reinforcement of the lessons learned in the Councils, as
accountability is still weak in some areas. For example, although it is a statutory
requirement that the Councils submit audited financial statements to MLG within 120
days of the close of the financial year, the majority of Councils (and the Ministry)
continue to ignore this provision
Strong donor coordination had direct benefits for Project implementation
The complementarity of financing meant that, from the start, the capital investment
component was strongly complemented by the institutional development and human
resource development components. As a result, the sub-project planning, appraising and
implementing processes were highly iterative, with Councils explicitly being questioned
as to how and why they were making different decisions and what the likely impact of
those decisions would be on different constituents.
- 29 -



Secondly, the strong program reporting and monitoring system primarily supported by
the IDP component of the RDCCBP (comprehensive six monthly review meetings take
place at district, provincial and national levels) allowed for a flexible disbursement
system under the DDGs capital component that served to empower and hold responsible
the RDCs for all expenditures. Under the DDGs component, annual, unconditional block
grants were disbursed at the start of the financial year/planning calendar to eligible RDCs
on the basis of fully appraised implementation plans, rather than on SOEs. The
monitoring ensured that if a Council did not use the funds for the purposes originally
intended, or if they had failed to expend all funds in the previous year, they either were
obliged to repay the grant allocation or a portion of the subsequent year's grant was
withheld. Strengthening of sub-national governments can only be sustainable if matched
by a supportive, explicit policy environment and a strong, proactive central Ministry
with sound communications with the sub-national level.
However, all of the above positive lessons are self-limiting and can only be sustained if
they are founded within a policy environment that is committed to decentralization - an
environment that recognizes that service delivery can be effectively and efficiently
accomplished at sub-national tiers of government; that clear and explicit expenditure
mandates between levels of government must be set out; and that these mandates must
be adequately resourced if they are to be achieved.
Involvement of the private sector needs to be recognized and strengthened
The RDCCBP as a whole has been focused within the realm of the public sector and has
largely ignored the potential for fostering linkages and ultimately partnerships between
the private sector and RDCs. The RDCs have been encouraged by the program to depend
on line ministries represented at provincial and district levels for the bulk of their
technical and costing inputs for the DDG subprojects'. The dependency by the RDCs on
sector ministry inputs, whilst understandable at this early stage of decentralization, has
given rise to a set of conditions with associated downstream costs. Two areas of
immediate concern are firstly, the poor quality of costings achieved in the first rounds of
subproject appraisals and secondly, the standardization of subprojects.
State lands in growth points is an underutilized resource
There are some seventy gazetted growth points located in the RDC areas of the
country. It has been estimated that at least one third of these centers have the potential
for economic growth, based on the development of agro-marketing functions and/or on
the development of light industries and distribution depots. However, all land in the
growth points is owned by the state, before being surveyed and sold to individuals.
The RDCs which administer and provide services to the centers, derive very limited
10 Interestingly, this is not the case with respect to Urban Councils' capital development activities in
Zimbabwe. The UCs have initiated a range of public-private partnerships in service delivery (such as the
design and supervision of capital works to the contracting out of management of security services, garbage
collection and city water supplies). The UCs undertake to fulfill their service mandates within guidelines
and policies set by line ministries (for example in health and education standards) but with little direct day-
to-day involvement in these activities by line ministries
- 30 -



incomes (in the form of user charges and trading licenses) from any economic activity
that takes place. The project identified the need for the RDCs to assume ownership of
the land in the growth points so as a) to market and advertise the centers to prospective
developers; and b) to realize revenue from plot sales within the centers. A study to
dimension the wealth of this asset to Councils and to prepare an action plan for the
phased transfer of the land to the Councils was mooted during the project. However,
the study could not be contracted and implemented within the closing date of the project
and so is still to be financed and carried out.
RDC planning and budgeting can and should be linked to explicit poverty reduction
targeting
Over the course of the project, there have been a number of points at which RDCs have
improved the ways in which they both identify and respond to the poor within their
jurisdictions. In terms of the project Operational Manual, the RDCs are explicitly
obliged to assess the poverty impact of each sub-project during the appraisal of annual
implementation plans. This initiative needs to be sustained by further training in the
future.
9. Partner Comnments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(i) A full text of the Borrower's comments is attached to this Report as an annex. The
overall assessment of the Borrower is that the project has positive outcome and impact.
The borrower noted that the project has made positive contribution both to the physical
improvement and institutional capacity of the RDCs.
(ii) The number of planned projects could not be implemented as planned due to the
deterioration of the macro-economic situation in Zimbabwe. This situation was
difficult to deal with as the implementing agencies had virtually no control over the
devaluation of the local currency, resulting in the allocated funds being exhausted
before the projects were complete. In addition, the Borrower failed to meet debt
obligations leading to the suspension of disbursement by the World Bank leading to the
Borrower failing to access funds.
(iii) Supervision and monitoring of the project was difficult as the MLGNH found it
difficult to effectively engage its staff and those from other sector ministries to
effectively monitor the activities of Local Authorities (LA) during project
implementation. District level supervision of the project was not adequate since the
Ministry's district staff did not have enough resources for effective supervision of the
project. However this situation has been addressed at provincial level but district level
supervision also requires resources.
(iv) The Bank and other donors are also considered to have performed satisfactorily
overall. However, the Bank's bureaucratic and paperwork demands diverted the energies
of the Borrower from other elements of the program.
- 31 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR has been sent to the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Netherlands
(co-financiers) and the Department for International Development (parallel financier)
for their comments. To date, there is no formal comment on the draft ICR from these
donors.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 32 -



Annex I
Page l of2
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR1                Actual/Latest
Estimate
A. Zimbabwe Government achieves efficient and
effective decentralization
A. 1. More and higher quality services meeting priority          S                               S
needs of local people provided by RDCs; and
better quality services meeting priority needs
provided by sector ministries
B. Enhanced capacity of RDCs to plan, manage and
sustain provision of priority services and facilities in
response to client needs.
B. I. Production of mission statements and corporate            S                               S
plans by RDCs. Improved policies and plans in
RDCS.
B.2. Improved financial management and local                    S                               S
revenue generation.
B.3. Improved accountability and transparency to                S                               S
rural electorate.
B.4. More services provided.                                    S                                S
C. Project components: identification, preparation and
appraisal of investment projects; support for the process
of decentralization.
C.l. District Development Grants to eligible RDCs               S                           $3.893 mill.
($7.25m)
C.2. District Development Loans to eligible RDCS                S                           $0.156 mill.
($4.5m)
C.3. Consultant support to the decentralization                 S                          $0.0457 mill.
process ($0.5m)



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSRI                 Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Improvement in investment planning
and appraisal
Al. Volume and timeliness of                                                                872
investment projects approved as
satisfying GM standards.
B. Infrastructure and community facilities
selected, appraised and constructed
according to the Operational manual (OM)
B. I. Project receiving completion                                                          476
certificates as per the OM.
C. RDCs more responsive to local
priorities.
C. 1. Percent of projects deemed to be                                                      15%
largely "community-driven",
following the standards specified
for the earmarked 10% of DDGs.
D. Clarified and advanced decentralization
process.
D. I. Clarification of assignment of                                                          U
RDC responsibilities, local resource
mobilization and transparent
revenue sharing arrangements.
I End ofproject



Annex 2
Page I of 2
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component     US$ million    US$ million
District Development Grants      14.25            3.89               27
District Development Loans        5.00            0.16              3.2
Policy Support/Consultant Services  0.50          0.05               10
Total Project Costs           19.75            4.10            40.20
Total Financing            19.75            4.10            40.20
Required
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement   Method1
Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB         Qther2      Total Cost
1. Works                  0.00        3.70         9.15          12.85
(0.00)     (2.80)        (5.05)        (7.85)
2. Goods                  0.00        4.30         2.10           6.40
(0.00)     (3.20)        (0.70)        (3.90)
3. Consulting Services    0.00        0.00         0.50           0.50
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.50)
Total                  0.00         8.00        11.75          19.75
(0.00)     (6.00)        (6.25)        (12.25)



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement   Method 1
Expenditure Category    ICB            NCB           Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00           6.27         0.00          6.27
(0.00)      (0.00)         (3.89)        (0.00)        (3.89)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00           0.17         0.00           0.17
(0.00)      (0.00)         (0.16)        (0.00)        (0.16)
3. Consulting Services      0.00         0.00           0.05         0.00           0.05
(0.00)      (0.00)         (0.05)        (0.00)        (0.05)
Total                    0.00         0.00           6.49         0.00           6.49
(0.00)      (0.00)         (4.10)        (0.00)        (4.10)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component         Appraisal Estimate  ActuaLatest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Govt.  CoF.  Bank   Govt.  CoF.   Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A. District           7.25            7.00    3.89             3.3      54                47
Development Grants
B. District           4.50   0.50             0.16    0.02*             3.6
Development Loans
C. Decentralization    0.50                   0.05                      10
Policy Support
* RDC Counterpart



Annex 3
Page I of 1
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of           Estimates at            Estimates at Completion
Return                 Appraisal
Economic rates of return  In late 1999, an independent
were not calculated at  economic analysis was undertaken of
appraisal for this      the RDC Pilot Project. As part of the
operation.              assessment, a review was made of the
on-going performance of sub-project
appraisal carried out by the RDCs
under the RDC Pilot Project, i.e.
adherence by local governments to
laid down appraisal procedures in the
Operational Manual, as well as
assessing the economic impact as a
result of channeling resources to the
rural areas. The assessment concluded
"... it is clear that there is increased
positive economic impact as a direct
result of the project. The provision of
infrastructure is a major achievement
of the project. ... [Furthermore] the
cost of implementing these projects is
effectively reduced through the mode
of implementation which involves
comprehensive provincial review and
monitoring of district level project
planning." This has resulted from
improvements in strategic planning
being undertaken by the Councils,
providing a basis for the more
efficient allocation of resources,
increased efficiencies in revenue
collection, improved budgeting and
financial control.



Annex 4
Page I of 2
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Proect                                                               -Cce  Perfoiiiiance
Rating
No. of Persons and
Speiaty
(e.g. 2 Economists I
FMS, etc.)
Month/Year            Count          Specialty         implementation   Development
.,_______ .,         0:   :0:V:  : Progress  Objective
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
Nov. 1997                    4    1 TTL, 2 LGS, 1 OA             S                S
April, 1998                  6   2 TTL, 3 LGS, 1 OA              S                S
Nov. 1998                    4    1 TTL, 2 LGS, 1 OA             S                S
March 1999                   6    1 TTL, 2 PO, 1 OA,             S                S
1 LGS, 1 ME
Nov. 1999                    7    1 TTL, 1 00, 1 SPO,            S                S
IPO
1 LGS, 2 Con.
June 2000                    2    1 LGS, I PO                    S                S
Staff Skills:                        Performance Ratings:
TTL = Task Team Leader               S = Satisfactory
LGS = Local Gov't Specialist
OA = Operations Analyst
SPO = Senior Procurement Officer
PO  Procurement Officer
ME  Municipal Engineer
00  Operations Officer
Con  Consultant



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          26.9                          105.4
Appraisal/Negotiation               16.4                           66.4
Supervision                        73.46                        230.28
ICR                                    *                              *
Total                             116.76                        402.08
* The Time Recording System (TRS) does not provide a distinction of staff week time between supervision
and preparation of the ICR. Therefore, the category "Supervision" above includes both implementation
supervision as well as the time and resources required to prepare this ICR.



Annex 5
Page I of 1
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[]Macropolicies                             [ JH [ ]SU [ ]M  [ ]N [X]NA
[7 Sector Policies                          [ ]H [ ] SU [XI M [ ]N [ INA
[  Physical                                 [ ]H [ ]SU [X]M  [ IN [ ]NA
[  Financial                                []H [XSU [ ]M  [ JN  [ ]NA
[I Institutional Development                []H [X]SU [ I M f J N [ I NA
[I Environmental                            []H [JSU [X]M  [N []NA
Social
[  Poverty Reduction                 [IH []SU [X ]M [IN []NA
[] Gender                            [ ]H [ ]SU [X]M [N []NA
[] Other (Please specify)
[  Private sector development               [I H [ ]SU [ ]M [ ]N [X]NA
[  Public sector management                 [ ]H [ ]SU [XJM [ IN [ ]NA
[  Other (Local Government Management)    [/  H [X I SU [  M [/N [ JNA



Annex 6
Page I of I
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
[   Lending                                             S
[   Supervision                                         S
[ ] Overall                                             S
6.2 Borrower performance
Rating
[   Preparation                                         S
[]Government implementation performance                 U
[  Implementation agency performance
- Capacity Building Unit                             U
- Rural District Councils                            S
[lOverall                                               U



Annex 7
Page I of 1
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
-- Staff Appraisal Report - May 5, 1997
-- st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th Six-Monthly Review reports of the RDCCBP
-- Mid-Term Review Report of the RDC Pilot (combined with 4th Six Monthly RDCCBP
Review Report), October 1999
-- Memorandum and Recommendation of the Managing Director to the President of the
IDA - May 5, 1997



Annex 8
Page 1 of 10
Annex 8 Borrower's Contribution to ICR
INTERIM FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT NO 1 9-ZIM
RURAL DISTRICT PILOT CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Zimbabwe Rural District Pilot Capital Development Project was signed in August 1997,
between the Government of Zimbabwe (GoZ) and the International Development Association
(IDA) under the overall Rural District Councils Capacity Building Programme (RDCCBP). The
programme was co-funded by the Government of Netherlands, the Government of Sweden,
DFID and Danish Development Agency.
The World Bank funding was received during the year 1999.
The following were the balances as at 30 June 2000.
Funding Agent      Category           Amount Allocated   Amount Disbursed
1. World Bank     1. Grants             SDR 5,250,000   Z$148,126,827
2. Loans              SDR3,300,000   Z$5,415,043.19
3. Consultants          SDR350,000   Z$2,200,792.00
services and audits
Total World Bank                         SDR8,900,000
2. Dutch          1. Grants             NLG12,700,000   Z$80,145,654.00
2. Audits               Z$5,065,128   Z$4,191,816.55
3. SIDA            1. Grants                             Z$55,566,768
4. GoZ             1. Grants                             Z$20,000,000
5. DFID           Equipment Grant   ;2,000,000.00       Z$30,000,000.00
IDP- Grants       6,500,000.00       Z$84,157,700
6. DANIDA          Equipment Grant    Z$5,000,000.00     Z$5,000,000
Original Objectives
The original objective of the Rural District Councils Pilot Capital Development Project as
outlined in Schedule 2 of the DCA was as follows:
(ii)   develop the capacity of Rural District Councils (RDCs) to plan, implement and manage
the sustainable delivery of essential services by providing RDCs with access to funds
necessary to provide critical services and infrastructure, and creating incentives for
improved RDC performance.
This broad objective was further divided into objectives by component as follows:
Part A: - District Development Grants



Annex 8
Page 2 of 10
Provision of grants to Eligible RDCs to finance local infrastructure development and service
delivery sub-projects to be undertaken by Eligible RDCs themselves, or through local
community groups or other organizations.
Part B: - District Development Loans
Provision of loans to Eligible RDCs to finance infrastructure development and service delivery
sub-projects to be undertaken by Eligible RDCs themselves, or through local community groups
or other organizations.
Part C: - Decentralization Policy Support
Development of critical policies required to sustain implementation of the Borrower's
decentralization program, including:
(vi)  review of international experience in inter-governmental fiscal reform and
identification of strategies for potential application by the Borrower;
(vii)  review of other areas of inter-governmental relations critical to the development of
the autonomy of local authorities, with particular emphasis on opportunities for
increasing private sector participation in the financing and provision of key services
and infrastructure; and
(viii) provision of advisory services to assist in the monitoring of implementation of the
project.
The central objective of the RDCCBP can be summarized as : to develop the capacity of all
RDCs to plan, implement and manage their own District Development Programmes and the
sustainable delivery of essential services. To achieve this objective, the Programme is explicitly
designed to follow a "learning by doing" approach through the combined provision of
institutional development support, human resources development inputs, and capital and material
resources necessary to directly implement infrastructure and deliver services. Key outputs
expected from the Programme include:
improved RDC planning, appraisal, implementation and technical supervision capacity;
improved financial management and accountability;
enhanced financial positions including improved local revenue generation;
increased community participation in planning, implementation and management of
development activities;
improved provision and maintenance of economic and social infrastructure, and associated
poverty reduction;
enhanced public transparency and accountability of councilors and officials; and
lessons leading to increased public/private partnerships in funding, implementing and
managing infrastructure and service provision.
Actual achievements
Below is an assessment on the achievements made on the original objectives of the RDC Pilot
Capital Development project. The achievements will be analyzed within the framework of the
overall RDCCBP, within which the capital development programme was operating. The analysis
will follow the segmented objectives listed above.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 10
Part A: - District Development Grants
(i)   Provision of grants to Eligible RDCs to finance local infrastructure development and
service delivery sub-projects.
RDCs in Zimbabwe had not generated or received adequate capital funding to implement
projects that assist enhance service delivery, hence RDCs remained invisible and non-existent in
the minds of the electorate that the RDCs were meant to serve. Capital Development was largely
the responsibility of sector Ministries and RDCs had very little experience of planning and
managing development projects. The CDP therefore provides fuel for the learning-by-doing
approach of the RDCCBP. It is designed to (a) provide all 57 RDCs with access to grant funds
necessary to reequip and reinitiate critical service and infrastructure provision and (b) create
incentives for improved RDC performance. This component is critical to ensure that capacity is
not built in a resource vacuum, and that RDCs are able to maximize their learning by doing
experiences through actual project implementation. The component provides grant assistance to
RDCs and technical assistance for implementation of the Government's decentralization policy.
The Netherlands Govt, SIDA and IDA Credit are jointly funding the District Development
Grants.
During financial year 1997/98 grants from the Dutch and SIDA were front loaded into the
programme and IDA funds were only disbursed for the grants in 1999.
RDCs have been largely successful in planning and implementing the 1998 and 1999 DDG
sponsored projects. During the first and second round of DDGS, a total of 874 projects at a total
cost of Z$320 million have been funded. Of these 874 projects, 476 have been completed at a
total cost of Z$79 236 534. The projects range from simple vegetable gardens to schools, clinics,
roads and dams and have been implemented through a combination of direct council labour,
communities and contractors. Dealing with contractors has also provided opportunities to
strengthen tendering procedures and contract management. The third round of DDG funding has
not yet commenced, as it has been affected by the World Bank suspension of disbursements to
Zimbabwe. However, an assessment of RDCs has been undertaken as a basis for disbursement
when the funds become available. The assessment placed RDCs in six categories (II % of
RDCs felt in Categories 1 and 2, 41 % in categories 3 and 4 with 49% in categories 5 and 6).
Category I RDCs will receive Z$4 million, while category 6 will receive Z$lO million. Forty
percent of RDCs are now able to co-ordinate district development effectively, with improved
working relationships between RDCS, Government departments at district level and NGOs.
Conclusion
The initial objective of providing capital funds to stimulate activity within RDCs while they
provide infrastructure through a learning process has been achieved during the life of the project.
The lessons learnt by most RDCs are constantly being applied in their quest to providing quality
services. Each Eligible RDC was allocated an average of Z$5m during the first two rounds of
the DDGs. To ensure the programme takes off the ground, there was need to accord each RDC
the opportunity to engage itself on to the programme and derive lessons from the DDG process
before grant allocation was based on performance. This objective was successfully achieved
since all eligible RDCs participated in the programme.
(ii) Improved RDC planning, appraisal, implementation and technical supervision capacity.



Annex 8
Page 4 of 10
Visibility of RDCs
As a result of the RDCCBP, rural communities are increasingly looking to RDCs as the main
development agency and RDCCBP has helped RDCs to be able to respond positively. Even
those donor funded projects which are trying to address issues of rural poverty directly with
communities recognize the central role to be played by RDCs in co-ordinating development at
district level and in the provision of roads, clinics, water supplies and general support services to
the communities. All councils acknowledge that they have an increasing role to play in the
management of essential services, and agree that this is likely to grow as decentralisation
evolves.
Enhanced Capacity of RDCs
The Programme design envisaged the first 2 years as one of engaging RDCs in a process of
exposing and owning weaknesses and of starting the tough task of institutional change to be
come effective and efficient development agencies. Awareness of the RDC role and ownership
of the key problems, which need to be addressed, has occurred in many RDCs. Again due to the
RDCCBP community awareness has also been raised resulting in communities demanding
quality service from the RDCs.
Generally lessons have centered on overall strategic district development planning, project
selection, implementation planning, tendering and contracting, implementation management and
monitoring. However very limited experience has been drawn in evaluation.
Below is a summary of the institutional progress within RDCs, undertaken by the RDCs
themselves and was based on a quantitative approach developed by the Programme in 1999. The
approach required RDCs to compare their existing institutional situation in 1999 with that of
1996. The results of this are presented in Table 1 and figure 1 below.
a)    Table 1 First Assessment - RDC Institutional Progress: Oct 1996 - Aug 1999
LOG FRAME HEADINGS                      % of RDCs
Improved RDC Capacity in:             Progress no change          decline
Integrated Strategic Planning            77.6%        22.4%         0.0%
Project and Programme Planning           79.6%        20.4%        0.0%
Project and Programme Implementation     87.8%        12.2%        0.0%
Project and Programme M & E              93.9%         6.1%         0.0%
Transport and Equipment Management      8 5.7%        14.3%        0.0%
Conclusion:
There is evidence that the original objective of bringing back the RDC as the central
development and planning agency has been achieved. Also the enhancement of the capacities of
RDCs to undertake sustainable development through continuous improvement has been
satisfactorily achieved Some RDCs have been slow in adopting change due to factors beyond
their own control. It is important to note however, that even under such circumstances,
remarkable progress towards change has been registered
iii.   Improvedfinancial management and accountability; and enhancedfinancial positions
including improved local revenue generation;



Annex 8
Page 5 of 10
Compared to three years ago, 80% of RDCs are much more aware of the need to address
financial management problems and are doing something about it. 88% of RDCs have up-to-date
audited financial statements for year ending 31 December 1998; 37% are up to date with respect
to FY1999 (as at November 28, 2000). Some of these RDCs are re-writing their budgets linking
expenditures and revenues to committees and departments of council. These functional budgets
have assisted RDCs tighten budgetary controls. A number of councils have also computerized
their accounts departments, an effort which have seen the RDCs improve their record keeping
and, help ensure accounts are produced on time.
Most councils are also searching for alternative sources of revenue and are making an effort to
improve their rates of collection on existing sources. This has been accompanied by
improvements in record keeping and shutting down loss making 'income generating' activities.
Another project co-fumded by the Dutch government and the World Bank (under category 3), the
Baseline Audit project, aimed at assisting RDCs update financial statements and or engage
auditors to audit their financial statements. A number of RDCs had accumulated backlogs in
financial statement preparation and audits over the years since amalgamation. The major
objective of the Baseline audit was to ensure councils financial management and accountability
was reinforced. During the implementation of the programme, participating RDCs were also
availed the opportunity to evaluate tenders and receive professional advice from experienced
audit firms.
To further improve accountability and strengthen control systems within councils, a significant
number of RDCs have set up transport management systems, including cost centers, and have
developed comprehensive systems for managing vehicles and equipment. Progress has been
modest with RDC transparency and accountability. Some councillors and their staff did not
think they have to explain their decisions and actions to the public. However, there are signs of
improvements where a number of councils are showing a conscious effort to improve their
systems e.g. procurement and tendering, particularly where residents demand greater
transparency.
Conclusion
The baseline audit project was a resounding success for the RDCCBP. As mentioned above 88%
of RDCs now have up-to-date auditedfinancial statements for year ending 31 December 1998;
3 7% are up to date with respect to FYI 999 (as at November 28, 2000). This programme has not
only managed to assist RDCs update accounts but has also helped create the necessary
awareness among councils that audits assist an organization to strengthen financial
management and credit worthiness. Further the audit requirement has generated enough
pressure on both participating and non -participating RDCs to produce audit reports for all
outstanding years. The Baseline also marked a major breakthrough in that it helped link RDCs
to some of the major actors in the field offinance as most RDCs, for the first time, contracted
external auditfirms. The achievement was satisfactory,
Through facilitation, council attitudes towards the public have completely changed with
councilors and council staff realizing more that the community will always askfor explanations
for decisions they take. Such a shift from the traditional scenario, has been welcomed as it
signalled the beginning of a new era in local governance.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 10
(Lt)  Increased community participation in planning, implementation and management of
development activities.
In strategic planning, most councils have developed some strategic planning systems and
procedures based on a participatory approach, but need to make further progress in producing
and implementing strategic plans. CAP and DEAP have helped 26 RDCs to prepare Poverty
Notional Maps, Ward Participatory Plans and review some annual plans. There has been good
progress in project planning, with 53% of RDCS having developed and put into use improved
project planning systems and procedures, involving Three Year Rolling Plans, Annual Plans and
improved Project Documents. By 1999, many RDCs had reasonably effective project
implementation and monitoring and evaluation systems in council, with the active involvement
of policy makers and council committees.
However many councilors still regard strategic plans as complex documents which are only
relevant to technocrats and executives whereas they are really simply a means of prioritizing
development expenditure. There is need to make these plans much more simple, understood and
totally owned by the councilors themselves.
Conclusion
The objective was partially achieved as some RDCs now involve a good number of stake-
holders in district development planning. Improved communication between RDCs and the
community has helped establish effective planning systems.
(x)   Improved provision and maintenance of economic and social infrastructure, and
associated poverty reduction
As stated in point (ii) above, all councils acknowledge that they have an increasing role to play in
the management of essential services, and agree that this is likely to grow as decentralization
evolves. About 75% of all RDCs fully accept the need to provide improved services but lack
resources to deliver them. Where resources and responsibilities have been devolved, e.g. water
and sanitation, councils have responded fairly well. Road maintenance responsibilities will also
be transferred to RDCs in the near future, providing further scope for councils to develop
systems on the job. Fifty three percent of councils have made significant progress in the
sustainable management of natural resources, with staff and basic management systems in place.
There is a need now for more hard evidence of real improvements in natural resource
management. Most RDCs are slow to recognize the importance of their role in the creation of a
conducive environment for economic development and, in comparison with the other log frame
headings, this has the least progress. Since 1996, only 29% of councils have tried to improve
and implement policies and systems likely to stimulate local economic development, with very
limited results.
Conclusion
This objective has been successfully initiated as most councils engaged in projects that focused
on social amenities, roads up-grading, construction of community halls and market stalls only
but to name afew. The ready willingness of RDCs was also demonstrated by those RDCs whose
communities were adversely affected by the Cyclone Eline. Some of the RDCs were swift to try
and redress the situation by prompt provision of infrastructure, without simply waiting for
central government or the donor community to take the initiative. Most RDCs now realize and
accept their responsibility as providers of infrastructure although resources may not have been



Annex 8
Page 7 of 10
adequately provided. The acceptance of these responsibilities is seen as a major achievement by
the programme. Maintenance issues will increasingly come into focus in the near future as
projects, already complete, begin to show signs of wear and tear.
(xi)     Enhanced public transparency and accountability of councilors and officials
As already mentioned in point (ii) above, the public expectations have been raised through
facilitation by the Capacity Building Programme, The Councilors and council officials now
realize that they are not only responsible for running council affairs but that they are accountable
to the public for their actions and decisions. For instance most councils have now realised the
need for full consultation with the beneficiaries for transparency. This objective will be further
addressed through the increased emphasis on activity based committee budgeting in the coming
year.
Conclusion
The successful implementation of the baseline audit and the raising of awareness amongst
councilors and the community through facilitation, have yielded good results as councilors in
some RDCs now demand comprehensive explanations on budgets, audit reports andfinal
accounts from both the executive and thefinance committees of council.
Part B - District Development Loans
i.    Under category 2, made available a facility to RDCs to finance infrastructure
development and service delivery sub-projects.
The original objective of DDL provision was targeted all councils although this proved difficult
to achieve due to backlogs in audited accounts and financial statements and the relatively tough
qualification criteria. One of the main qualification criteria required that councils be up to date
with their audits. Most councils failed to qualify because of this requirement. Also many councils
were not used to acquiring loan financing of this nature. A number of councils failed to get
borrowing powers approved on time for them to receive the loans. Further, most RDCs were kept
busy as they implemented DDG projects. Councils on the whole preferred grant funding as
opposed to loan financing and, grant funding was found to be more appropriate to the need of
RDCs at the present time. The deteriorating macro-economic climate in Zimbabwe also made
most councils more risk averse than ever. Although this resulted in a negative response to DDLs
by most councils, it is pleasing to note that the councils have on the other hand developed the
ability to assess risk before deciding to borrow.
Conclusion
While it appears that the objective was not satisfactorily achieved in terms of number of
participating councils, since only one council, Bindura, successfully accessed the loan, many
lessons were learnt by those councils that had made reasonable progress towards applying for
the loans. For Bindura the valuable procurement process that the council went through provided
them with the opportunity to institutionalize good procurement practices.



Annex 8
Page 8 of 10
Part C: Decentralization Policy Support
(i)   review of international experience in inter-governmentalfiscal reform and
identification of strategies for potential application by the Borrower;
(ii)  review of other areas of inter-governmental relations critical to the development of the
autonomy of local authorities, with particular emphasis on opportunities for increasing
private sector participation in the financing and provision of key services and
infrastructure;
(iii) provision of advisory services to assist in the monitoring of implementation of the
project.
Part C of the RDC Pilot Project was designed to support the development of critical policies
required to sustain the implementation of the Borrower's decentralization programme.
Progress made in the decentralization programme includes, the development of an outline
implementation strategy for decentralization. This involves (a) creating an enabling environment
by defining a vision of local government and addressing the complex issues of inter-government
al fiscal relations and staffing: (b) agreeing modalities for the transfer of sector functions to
RDCs: and (capacity building including RDCCBP. Underlying this decentralization
implementation strategy are the 13 principles against which "transfer of functions, with authority
and the means" were to be guaranteed. The developed strategy is being implemented as each
sector is required to seek the approval and adoption of its decentralization proposals by the
national level structures before commencing transfer of functions. Delays were experienced in
the approval/adoption of proposals, and to date three key sectors have commenced gradual hand
over of functions to Local Authorities.
The programme commissioned a consultancy to prepare a statement of the Vision of Local
Government. Consultations were held to increase ownership of the vision and sector ministries
were tasked to develop to propose strategies for implementing the Vision.
A study was commissioned to develop guidelines for the Finance and Fiscal reforms, which are
expected to accompany functional decentralization. This study is still underway.
Sector ministries continue to submit proposals to CBCC on the functions and resources to be
decentralized. It is agreed that decentralization of sector functions will be a negotiated process
with a time schedule that matches the preparedness of the local authorities, as well as ensures the
maintenance of service standards in Rural District Councils.
Conclusion:
The decentralization policy support component has achieved its aim of initiating development of
policies and strategies based on well-researched reports, studies and stakeholder consultative
processes for building consensus. There is evidence that some of the strategies developed are
already being implemented. However the decentralization process has not been helped by the
current economic difficulties Zimbabwe is currently facing.
Borrower's own performance
The "Borrower" for the Rural District Pilot Capital Development Project was the Government of
Zimbabwe (Ministry of Finance) while the implementing agency was the Ministry of Local



Annex 8
Page 9 of 10
Government Public Works and National Housing (MLGPW & NH). An inter-ministerial
committee, the Capacity Building Co-ordinating Committee was the planning, management and
co-ordinating agency with the Capacity Building Unit (CBU) as its secretariat, responsible for
running the day to day duties of the programme.
The performance by the various parties of the Borrower has been evaluated. The evaluation has
been divided into weaknesses and strengths.
(a)   Strengths
(i)   The Government of Zimbabwe established an inter-ministerial committee, the Capacity
Building Co-ordinating Committee (CBCC) which was to become the co-ordinating and
information sharing body for the Rural District Councils Capacity Building Programme
(RDCCBP). The MLGPW & NH being the implementing agency, established a Capacity
Building Unit, which would run the day to day management of the project. The Unit was
staffed with personnel who are professionals in different fields. A TC Team was also
established at National level to provide technical and professional advice to the Ministry
and CBU. At sub-national level a Provincial Support Team, headed by a team leader, and
supported by a TC Facilitator was also established. The members of the PST worked with
the individual RDCs within their province. These PST members were to become joint
change agents with the Chief Executive officers within RDCs.
(ii)   As most councils were finding it difficult to secure funding under the PSIP, most councils
welcomed the RDCCBP. The majority of councils were also cash strapped and could not
raise enough to procure basic office equipment including vehicles. The equipment grant
was a major boost as it aimed at addressing the resource constraint in RDCs, as they
geared themselves for greater responsibilities.
(iii)  The establishment of the CBCC created a link between sector ministries. This would
ensure that RDCs receive support from sector ministries as and when required.
(iv)  During the life of the project the provincial level was also strengthened through the
Provincial Institutional Support Project (PISP), funded by DFID which aimed at
addressing the resource constraints at provincial level. At each province an inter-
ministerial committee, the Provincial Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-
Committee or similar, responsible for planning, evaluation and monitoring of the
RDCCBP was established, and the committee would be strengthened through the PISP
equipment grant.
(v)   The RDCCBP has made significant progress in enhancing the role of the MLGPW & NH
in promoting Local Government and supervising adherence to the RDC Act. It has helped
the Ministry appreciate the importance of its supervisory role in creating the synegy of
pressures designed to promote change in RDCs.
(vi)  Although resources have been limited for supervision of the programme a lot of work has
been done. It has become necessary to assist councils establish record keeping and project
-monitoring databases and computerized accounting systems. Initiatives have been
instituted and a number of councils have already taken these on board.
(vii)  The Borrower managed to meet all reporting requirements and managed to co-ordinate
inputs from different external support agencies.
(b) Weaknesses
(i)   The number of planned projects could not be implemented as planned due to the
deterioration of the macro-economic situation in Zimbabwe. This situation was



Annex 8
Page 10 of 10
difficult to deal with as the implementing agencies had virtually no control over
the devaluation of the local currency, resulting in the allocated funds being
exhausted before the projects were complete.
(ii)   Supervision and monitoring of the project was difficult as the MLGPW & NH
found it difficult to effectively engage its staff and those from other sector
ministries to effectively monitor the activities of local authorities (LA) during
programme implementation. District level supervision of the programme was not
adequate since the Ministry's district staff did not have enough resources for
effective supervision of the programme. However this situation has been
addressed at provincial level but district level supervision also requires resources.
(iii)  The Borrower failed to meet debt obligations leading to the suspension of
disbursement by the World Bank leading to the Borrower failing to access funds
to finance the project during the final year of the Pilot Project.
(iv)   Both the beneficiaries and the Project Management had little experience in the
Bank's procedures, resulting in delays in accessing funds from the Bank.
Conclusion
In general the Borrower performed satisfactorily and the programme has gained momentum and
the benefits of the programme are now being felt within a number of RDCs. The lessons that
have been learnt are being applied by many RDCs in their every day business. More positive
results are expected as the RDCCBP gears itself to focus on fewer critical areas over the next 12
months.
World Bank's performance
(a) Strengths
(i) The Bank managed to meet the review timetable during the implementation of the project.
(ii)   Of all the donors the World Bank have provided by far the most competent, interested
and consistent personnel for project forrnulation and reviews. The Bank's local office
staff were readily available to assist.
(iii)  The bank also promoted best practices in procurement and tendering.
(iv)   The Bank was also instrumental in pushing for the establishment of an RDCCBP
Operational Manual which has proved to be a useful guide for RDCs when implementing
projects.
(vi)   Weaknesses
(i)   The Capital Pilot project was implemented within the context of the overall RDCCBP
funded by other donors. The Bank however appeared to have been pushing for their
regulations or procedures with little regard to the interests or requirements of the of the
other support agencies.
(ii)   The Bank also appeared least prepared to negotiate review of timetables.
(iii)  The bureaucratic and paperwork demands of the Bank have placed heavy demands on the
programme management and technical assistance diverting energies from other elements
of the programme.



MAP SECTION






z A I RE .pxTANZANIA ',28-                                                                     30               LoeCbr  as    320              
ANGOLAw~ (w  n-^M
ZAMBIA          \                                                                                - 
i  ;4   <0   t, -16                                               ,~^                    ^   '-->16'    MOZAMBIQUE                                    16t
NAMIBIA           rsTWN                    ;      fINDIAN ;  Z A  M  B I A )S, 2\(;  ,\M ~
SOUTIS                  v               OCEAN                                           ./                                 v9      .,       <   Av!l,  U,i 8-                     --
ATLANTIC         j/-                   i'                                                           \AHNLAND                -sM SO8AD                       .g -          -
CCrAN  4   j                                       - t      L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ariebc,azE   WEST   ,      ETRL  ;  ,xr \<- ,S; 
SOUTH AFRICA                                                                                             f   R \ ~ ' ',c  Bnua(,                \ 
9R,   260  ,          ff  M           i    C(KvXF  q:-IvTt!  i'>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ch 0Ai5 l) 1  c,   v ",;            9 i 
NAMiBIA                                                                                                                              I Fi(vA>t2"]it9Shi  lYtt,j,
-18   #~~~~~~#*_/   \   t~~~~~~t9xt_tv        /                  -/ '/           ]                fe ~~~~~~~~~~-~M;4+10ikALAND ps          ,      1
/  -   \ _-- t i- ------- t/47t<j /1/ >-< HWFIv;7~GulWF   t-IH                                                  -AST\r 
''              t'              ~~~~MATABALELAND '   UN        \KY.i                 WsW                ,,,  ,\s   
y A /                     \                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTtH_ _'?                                           -A U_~   . t , -- ,/      , /,1 "'       '
'         ,                   __z        /~~~~~ oo           '->  ;'.fz               riCHIRUMHANZ! ,> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   ,\,,  MU4>A,:RHRUMHNZI'tA-
A_/ > < /9.,>-GWFRU Gweru- 1\eHR. .,.
~~~ / ~~~ TSHOLOTSHIO   h                                         HRGIi         X iGUTU                     \ <r-J 
| r   ZIMBAINWE    ~ ~~~' ~                    \      C   !>,(-/   i                    {:<    6    \  MA%NGo.}          i,   z LA   i            J SHURUGW
<3   PROVINCE CAPITALS  ' 2;  +'\   |         1 ., GWANDA         '          o            x '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  BIIT
RURAL DISTRCT COUNCILBOUNDARIES     >        's      SSOUH  l  \--_  o\'             MWENEWANEC ZAKA                  I - C'IPIGe 
~~BUIRURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL                                                                               NMS -. s , <o --l  <_
A    DPROVINCEBONAIS 7>   ETRDE~s   hsawsrdntyh
w 0 100 200 K~~~~IVOEERS                            BMAOG0  TG       ~<, smwp do n mh.o h a  
<~ ~ ~~~~NTOA CAPTA                                                                                s MAT    H~A      ICA BALELAND9snroacYptneYf                                     a
oo                2di                                 2;30   e  *~+   '               /                             \  ~ - >   32t such bundorieW.N( A



