Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14795
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2338-YU)
JUNE 30, 1995
Energy, Environment and Transport Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CC           Common Criteria
CE           Common Elements
DCN          Data Communication Network
EIB          European Investment Bank
EMS          Energy Management System
FSFR         Former Socialist Federal Republic (of Yugoslavia)
JUGEL        Union of the Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
LI           Local Interface
LRMC         Long Run Marginal Cost
OPS          Operational Planning System
PCR          Project Completion Report
RAP          Republics and Provinces
RTCS         Real Time Control System
RTU          Remote Terminal Unit
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
TCS          Telecommunication System Microwave
WOAL         Work Organization of Associated Labor



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office Of Director General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on the Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Third Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia: Third Power Transmission project (Loan 2338-YU, approved in FY84) prepared by the
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. Part II of the PCR was contributed by two of the eight
Borrowers: Croatia and Slovenia.
The project objectives were to consolidate past efforts to improve coordination and financial
soundness of the power sector. It comprised: (i) a national load dispatch center, eight Republic/Province
load dispatch centers, a microwave telecommunication system and ancillary equipment and buildings; and
(ii) training of about 500 Yugoslav technicians to operate, maintain and further extend an energy
management system.
The US$120 million composite loan was approved in July 1983 as eight separate Loans 2338-0-
YJ to 233 8-7-YU to the power enterprises of the Republic/Provinces of the Former Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia. The project was not completed due to: (i) extraordinary delays in effectiveness, in
establishing the local agency for constructing the federal dispatch center, and in preparing the first set of
bidding documents; and (ii) the eventual disintegration of the country in 1992. After ten years of partial
implementation, only US$41.8 million was disbursed, and the balance was canceled. Investment planning
coordination did not occur and the electricity pricing targets were never met. The strengthening of the
Union of the Yugoslav Electric Power Industry was not realized, and the financial improvernents achieved
under earlier Bank loans were lost.
The Borrowers' performance was unsatisfactory: the commitment to most objectives was absent in
the Republics and only a small fraction of the physical and training components was implemented. Bank's
performance was also unsatisfactory: mistakes in project design, poor procurement arrangements, and
ineffective supervision over the first four years were factors contributing to project failure.
The outcome of the project is rated as highly unsatisfactory, its institutional development as
negligible, and its sustainability as unlikely.
The PCR is of high quality and presents an excellent account of project implementation and
outcome.
No audit is planned.
Attachment                                             (    5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
| duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.    l






FSFR YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                        (i) - (ii)
Evaluation Summary                                             (iii) - (vi)
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity                                                   1
2. Background                                                          1
3. Project Objectives and Description                                 2
4. Project Design and Organization                                     5
5. Project Implementation                                             8
6. Project Results                                                    18
7. Sustainability                                                     19
8. Bank Performance                                                   19
9. Borrower Performance                                               19
10. Project Relationship                                              20
11. Consulting Services                                               20
12. Cofinancing                                                       20
13. Project Documentation and Data                                    21
PART II PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE                       22
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION. TABLES
A. Project Time Table                                    Table 1      36
B. Use of Bank Resources                                 Table 2      37
C. Disbursements                                         Table 3      38
D. Implementation Schedule                               Table 4      39
E. Loan Disbursed by Category                            Table 5      40






PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the composite Loan 2338-YU of
US$120.01 million approved by the Board on July 23, 1983 and made as eight separate
Loans numbered 2338-0-YU to 2338-7-YU to the power enterprises of six republics and two
autonomous provinces (RAPs)2 of the Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(collectively called the Borrowers) with the Guarantee of the Federal Republic. The project
financed by this loan - described as the Third Power Transmission Project - was a sequel to
the successful First and Second Power Transmission Projects (Loans 836-YU of 1972 and
1469-YU of 1977) under which a vast 380 kV national grid had been established. The law
of the country required that this national grid should be operated as a single technological
unit. The project was intended to install, operate, and manage a modem computerized
national energy management system (EMS) for remote supervision and control of this grid at
the national, republic, and provincial levels to meet this legal and economic requirement. At
appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$321 million. Also, a party to the loan
agreement was the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) which, though
lacking executive authority, was to install and operate the national EMS center. The project
was to be financed by the Borrowers, the Bank, and, the European Investment Bank (EIB).
In December 1982 the EIB made a loan of 67 million ECU for the Third Power
Transmission Project, which was scheduled to be completed by end December 1988.
The project was not completed. After ten years of project implementation the total
disbursement was only US$41.78 million. The balance of the effective loan of US$115.02
million was cancelled. The key project components were (i) the Real Time Control System
(RTCS) on which there was a disbursement of about US$3.3 million on a small, initial,
planning and training "zero" phase component (RTCS "O"), and (ii) the Microwave Radio
Telecommunication System (TCS) on which there was no disbursement. The rest of the loan
disbursement was on ancillary equipment (US$26.71 million), financing charges (US$9.06
million), and consulting services (US$1.51 million). Failure to complete the project was due
to (i) an initial starting delay of one and half years on account of differences with one of the
Borrowers - the power enterprise of Crne Gore (Montenegro) on the scope of its project
component, and in meeting set conditions of loan effectiveness; (ii) a delay of five years in
1/    This was reduced at effectiveness in January 1985 to US$115.02 million,
due to downsizing of facilities at the Crne Gore (Montenegro) regional
center.
2/    Bosnia-Hercegovina (2338-0), Crne Gore (Montenegro) (2338-1), Croatia
(2338-2), Macedonia (2338-3), Slovenia (2338-4), and Serbia (2338-5)
were the republics; Kosovo (2338-6) and Vojvodina (2338-7) were the
autonomous provinces.



-ii-
establishing the Work Organization of Associated Labor (WOAL) for construction of the
Federal (JUGEL) dispatch center and in getting project implementation clearances for
components of the project at local levels; (iii) a five to eight year delay in preparing the first
set of bidding documents for the key project components, viz. the RTCS and the TCS.
(There were serious procurement difficulties with five bid packages issued in 1987-1988
which led to cancellation of all five bids in March 1990, redefinition of the project and re-
commencement of the procurement as a single RTCS package in May 1990); and (iv) the
disintegration of former Yugoslavia in 1992 which placed the project completion beyond
reach. The Borrowers who had, at considerable effort, completed acceptable bidding
documents for the RTCS and TCS systems by then urged project continuation. The EIB
cancelled its loan in February 1992. The Bank Loan was kept open until the revised closing
date of December 31, 1993 agreed in March 1987, to enable completion of the small
planning and training "O" phase of the redefined RTCS procured between 1991-1993. This
was possible only in two republics. No further work, even of bid invitation, was possible on
the main RTCS and TCS systems. Nine dispatch center buildings were constructed and
ancillary equipment installed.
This PCR has been prepared for the entire project as the project was conceived and
implemented as a single integrated project. There were eight separate loans for legal,
financing, accounting, disbursement, and repayment purposes. The Preface, Evaluation
Summary, and Parts I & III of the PCR were prepared by staff of the Energy and
Environment Division, Central Europe Department. Part II, to be prepared by the
Borrowers, had to be prepared in Sections for each of the eight Borrowers. Unfortunately,
due to the disintegration of former Yugoslavia in 1992, reports on only two of the
components - dealing with the Croatian and Slovenian components - were received.
Preparation of the PCR started in April 1994. The report is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report No. 4193-YU, the President's Report, the PCR No 5390 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Loan 1469-YU), Loan and Guarantee Agreements and their
amendments, and information available in the files.



-111-
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Third Power Transmission Project -also described as the energy management
System (EMS) Project - was financed by the composite Loan 2338-YU of 1983 made as eight
separate loans numbered 2338-0 to 2338-7 to power enterprises of the eight republics and
provinces (RAPs)3 of the former Yugoslavia. It envisaged establishment of nine new load
dispatch centers - one national (or federal) and eight republic/provincial- all equipped with
state-of-the-art, computerized, hierarchial (national/regional/area) systems for remote
supervision and control of the former Yugoslav power grid to enable it to operate as a single
technological unit on the most economic basis. The project objectives were to consolidate
past efforts to improve coordination and financial soundness of the power sector and, in
particular, to assist the National Union of Yugoslav Power Industry - JUGEL (a) to exercise
the necessary central role for coordination of system expansion planning, implementation,
supervision/control and operation of the Yugoslav Power System at the national level; (b)
maximize its impact on sector development; and (c) play a larger role in the procurement
process.
2.    The project comprised the EMS (Part I) and Training (Part II). The EMS involved:
(a) a national dispatch center at Belgrade to be constructed jointly by JUGEL and the eight
Borrowers, and operated by JUGEL; and (b) eight republic/provincial load dispatch centers.
Each was to have: (a) a predictive operation planning system (OPS); (b) a real time control
system (RTCS); and (c) a data communication network (DCN) system, which together
constituted the key project component. Additionally, a microwave radio relay
telecommunication system (TCS) was to be constructed to link these nine load dispatch
centers, the power stations, and other power system components to be controlled. Ancillary
items of equipment and buildings constituted the rest of the Project. Part II comprised about
1,000 man-months of instructor services for training about 500 Yugoslav technicians by
parties contracting for the supply and installation of the above systems.
4
3.    The Bank loan agreement stipulated that all the project components should be
procured following ICB procedures, through thirteen, separate, identified contract packages,
which pooled the requirements of all the nine dispatch centers.
4.    Start of project implementation was delayed by: (a) one and a half years, up to
effectiveness in January 1985, due to differences with the enterprise of Montenegro (Crne
Gore) on the scope of its component and delays in meeting set conditions of loan
effectiveness; (b) five years in establishing the Work Organization of Associated Labor
(WOAL) for construction of the federal (JUGEL) dispatch center, and in getting project
3/    See Footnote 2 of page 1 of the Preface.



-iv-
implementation clearances for the project components at republic/province levels and (c) five
to eight years in preparation of bidding documents because of unsatisfactory consultancy
arrangements and design changes on the TCS. Five separate bids were invited for the key
components -the OPS, the RTCS, and the DCN- during 1987-1988. During evaluation of
bids received it was found that the lowest evaluated bids for the two packages into which the
OPS had been divided were mutually incompatible. This exposed a basic flaw in the
packaging of contracts (para. 3) where application software (OPS II) had been separated from
the hardware (OPS I). Moreover, what should have been bid as a single contract for the
entire RTCS, had been sub-divided into two separate sub-systems - viz the RTCS, and the
DCN- introducing further problems of compatibility. After much consideration, the
Borrowers could not arrive at any contract award recommendations and the five bids were
ultimately cancelled in March 1990.
5.    In July 1989, ECC of USA was appointed as the engineering consultant for the
project. With the assistance of ECC, the project was redesigned during April-May 1990 to
incorporate the latest technological advances and to redefine the bid packages for the key
components. This resulted in: (a) a single bid for the RTCS system instead of the five bids
originally invited (para 4) for operations planning and real-time system control; and (b) a
reduction in investment cost by US$30 million. US$25.84 million of the loan amount was
cancelled in 1991 at the request of the Borrowers. The implementation period was extended
up to the end of 1993. In order to derive some early benefits of operation planning and
training in about two years, it was also decided in 1990 to invite bids initially for a small
"zero" stage (RTCS "O"), estimated to cost about US$3.0 million (see para. 5.3.8), which
would be compatible with the RTCS, and enable the Borrowers to derive some planning
benefits and training while awaiting implementation of the main RTCS.
6.    The disintegration of former Yugoslavia into separate countries and commencement of
hostilities during 1991-1992 made it impossible to complete the project. The work on the
"O" stage component of the RTCS continued, however, - after deletion of its JUGEL
component- in Croatia and Slovenia. This small part of the project has now been completed
in Croatia and Slovenia. Little work on the "O" stage has been done at the other dispatch
centers due to the political situation and U.N. sanctions. Prequalification was carried out for
the RTCS system. The RTCS and TCS systems were not put out to bid, though bid
documents were prepared and reviewed by the Bank. The dispatch center buildings were
constructed and some ancillary equipments were procured. The key project components
were not completed.
7.    On the financial side, the existing cash generation covenants - which had been
successful in the past according to the PCR for the Second Power Transmission Project
(Loan 1469-YU of 1977) - were replaced in 1983 by new covenants requiring tariffs based
on long run marginal costs (LRMC) using a common methodology to be agreed to by the
Borrowers. This was a major departure from the appraisal mission's recommendation, which
was to renew the cash-generation covenant. This change was made in the context of the
Bank's First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL (I)) discussions which were going on



_v_
concurrently. LRMC based tariffs - and the associated economic objectives - were not
achieved because: (a) it required the Borrowers' agreement on a national long-term
investment plan, which was not possible because of technical difficulties and lack of
agreement on project priorities between the Borrowers; and (b) the common methodology for
calculation of LRMC - clause 5.04(a) of the Loan Agreement - was not developed or agreed.
Moreover, in 1985 Yugoslav authorities adopted an alternative system of pricing called the
Common Elements (CE) method - a mixture of some local costs, electricity prices prevailing
in selected European countries and fuel price indices in former Yugoslavia. Furthermore,
Clause 5.04(d) of the Loan Agreement required a utility, i.e. republic/provincial, perspective
and was, in any case, inconsistent with the Bank's objective of attaining economies on a
national scale (para 5.2.4). It was neither enforceable nor attempted to be enforced.
Yugoslav authorities converted the CE approach in 1990 into a Common Criteria (CC)
method of energy pricing, which the Bank accepted in the context of SAL II but insisted that
an approach, which also addressed the financial problems, be agreed as a second tranche
SAL II condition. This was not achieved by the time that the second tranche of SAL II was
cancelled. However, even the CE and CC electricity pricing targets were never met in time.
In the prevailing period of rapid inflation, this seriously eroded the income of all eight power
enterprises. The absence of enforceable financial covenants may have been a contributing
factor in the loss of the financial gains made under the earlier loans to the former Yugoslav
power sector rather than in the improvements which were sought as an important project
objective.
8.    The economic justification of the project was reviewed by ECC and the Borrowers in
the context of redefining the project in 1990. It was noted that the feasibility report of 1981,
and the SAR, had over-estimated the benefits of the project. Despite substantial investment
cost reductions in 1990 through redesign of the project, the ERR was revised downwards
from 16% to 10%. As the project was not completed the final economic rate of return could
not be tested.
9.    The following are the principal project lessons:
(i)         The need for the state-of-the art EMS project for efficient control of
former Yugoslavia's power grid was never in doubt at the Bank or
among the Borrowers. This was demonstrated by the strenuous efforts
made by JUGEL and the Borrowers, particularly after 1987, to
implement the EMS project and by the fact that this effort continued
even during the later period of hostilities among the countries into
which former Yugoslavia had disintegrated. However, the problems of
obtaining and sustaining real commitment of all the diverse members of
such an interconnected power system must not be underestimated,
especially in this case.



-vi-
(ii)        Technologically complex projects such as the EMS project should not
be allowed to proceed to the implementation stage without continuous
involvement of consultants with established minimum levels of proven
experience in RTCS systems and especially of its unique procurement
requirements (see paras 5.2.9 and 5.2.10);
(iii)      During design of contract packaging of EMS systems, special care
should be taken to ensure compatibility, which should be a paramount
consideration;
(iv)       Prequalification of bidders must be carried out on the basis of clearly
specified minimum proven experience requirements and should never
be waived;
(v)        Loans for such extremely complex projects, particularly when it
involves multiple borrowers, should not be presented to the Board
unless final bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, have been
prepared for all the key contracts;
(vi)       For technologically complex projects such as the EMS the standard
Bank procurement approach, devised for simple equipment, must not be
used; a two-stage method of bidding should be used and the Bank's
industrial formula for domestic preference incorporated instead of the
formula indicated in its Procurement Guidelines.
(vii)      To ensure financial soundness of power entities, financial covenants
should focus on financial performance rather than economic
methodology, such as LRMC.
(viii)     In such parallel financing schemes, the lending agencies should agree at
the start on the specific items which would be financed by the
respective loans. This was not done under the project, leaving the
Borrowers in doubt on such aspects as the procurement policies to be
followed for different items; and
(ix)       The Bank's firm approach in recognizing past errors in project design,
procurement, and consultancy arrangements and correcting them
quickly during 1987-1990 were effective and ultimately appreciated by
the Borrowers. The Bank strongly supported a good project as long as
the objectives were within reach but when it became clear that they
could not be attained, the Bank was firm, and called for an end to the
activities.



PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name:         Third Power Transmission Project
also referred to as the Energy Management System (EMS)
Project.
Loan No.:     2338-YU as eight loans numbered 2338-0-YU to 2338-7-YU
RVP Unit:     Europe and Central Asia
Country:      Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Sector:       Energy
Subsector:    Power
2. Proiect Background.
2.1   The project was conceived in 1971 as the last phase of a three-part program to build
an integrated 380 kV power transmission system covering the whole of former Yugoslavia
with interconnections to several neighboring countries. Its forerunner - a load dispatch
scheme - was included as Part II of the Second4 Power Transmission Project financed
through Bank Loan 1469-YU of 1977 and envisaged nine dispatch centers (one federal, six
republic - one each for Bosnia-Hercegovina, Crne Gore (Montenegro), Croatia, Macedonia,
Slovenia and Serbia - and two for the autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina). Its
design was based on technology of the sixties and it was estimated to cost US$70.0 million.
The scheme was expected to be financed by commercial and suppliers' credits. The Bank,
however, financed a study which was a prerequisite for implementation of the load dispatch
scheme. This study recommended that integrated operation and economic optimization of the
former Yiugoslav power system required a sophisticated, state-of-the-art, computerized energy
management system (EMS), significantly different from the load dispatch centers planned
earlier. As the complete EMS system was estimated to cost about US$480.0 million, the
Bank required that the project be divided into two phases, with the first phase, costing about
US$315 million, to be completed during 1981-86. This recommendation was accepted by the
Yugoslav authorities. However, since they were unable to arrange financing, they requested
the Bank and the European Investment Bank (EIB) to delete the load dispatch component
from the Second Power Transmission Project and to make the first phase of the EMS the
core of the Third Power Transmission Project. In 1982, the Bank and the EIB agreed to this
4/    The First Power Transmission Project was financed by Loan 836-YU of
1972.



-2-
request. The Yugoslav 380 kV grid was completed in 1984. The project, therefore,
assumed great urgency and had high national priority.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   Objectives
3.1. 1 As stated at para 44 of the President's Report, the project objectives were to
consolidate past efforts to improve coordination and financial soundness of the power sector
and, in particular:
(a)   to assist the National Union of the Yugoslav Power Grid - JUGEL - to retain
the necessary central role for coordination of system expansion planning,
implementation, supervision/control and operation of the Yugoslav Power
System (see para 3.1.2 (c));
(b)   to maximize its impact on sector development (see para. 3.1.2); and
(c)   to enable JUGEL to play a larger role in procurement matters (see para. 3.1.2
(c)).
3.1.2 The sector objectives described in para. 3.1.1 (b) above were developed and agreed
between the Bank and the Yugoslav Government authorities in the context of the First
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) made in 1983, a few months before the Loan 2338-YU
for the Third Power Transmission Project went to the Board. The principal objective was to
reorient the investment program in the entire power sector - which continued to be developed
on a parochial, republic and provincial basis - towards national priority activities as part of a
new Government policy of rationalizing the energy sector announced in March 1983.
According to the SAR, another objective was to find a better basis than the cash-generation
financial covenant, agreed to under the Second Power Transmission Project - which, on
average, was satisfactorily implemented - to raise prevailing electricity tariffs. The
objectives at 3.1.1 (a) and (c) were based on Bank experience through earlier loans to the
power sector. To ensure that all these objectives were met, the legal documents of Loan
2338-YU incorporated the following undertakings:
(a)   Section 5.04 (a) of the Loan Agreement, replaced the cash-generation covenant
under the earlier power sector Loan 1469-YU (1977) with a provision to
increase electricity prices to a level which would not be less than the long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) of supply of electricity through adjustments on, at least,
an annual basis over a five year period ending December 1987. This required
an agreed national power investment plan and an agreed common methodology
among the republics and provinces (RAPs) for calculating the LRMC. It was a
condition of the loan (Section 5.04 (b) that the Borrowers should determine this
common methodology, in agreement with the Bank, no later than January 31,



-3-
1984. The first of the upward price adjustments - a 15% increase in real terms
over the April 1, 1983 level was a condition of effectiveness of the loan in
accordance with Sections 5.04(b) and 7.01 (a);
(b)   Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement sought to achieve economic optimization
of investment choices until completion of the project by requiring the
Borrowers and JUGEL: (i) to annually update their medium term (3 year)
plans of investment for generation, transmission and distribution to determine
the plan of investments to be made in the next calendar year (Section 4.06 (a)),
and (ii) to exchange views by November 30th of every year with the Bank
before finalization of such three year and annual (short-term) investment plans
(Section 4.06 (b)); and
(c)   Section 2.11 of the Loan Agreement designated JUGEL as the representative of
the Bank for all purposes of loan management. Schedule 6 to the Loan
Agreement set out the methodology for this management. Schedule 7 to the
Loan Agreement detailed the coordination steps between the Borrowers and
-JUGEL. It also specifically required that JUGEL's project management team
should be designated by the Borrowers' Coordination Committee to act in its
name and on its behalf in matters related, inter alia, to procurement, expecting
thereby to centralize and speed up the procurement process. Section (B) of the
preamble to the Loan Agreement noted the various agreements reached by the
stage of Board presentation of the loan to empower JUGEL to: (i) harmonize
development plans of the Borrowers, and (ii) construct the federal (JUGEL)
dispatch center of the EMS project. Thus, JUGEL was expected to construct
and operate the new federal level dispatch center.
3.2   Description
3.2.1 Part I of the project comprised:
(a)   An Operational Planning System (OPS) for predictive power system
management. This was to consist of a central computer facility at the federal
(JUGEL) dispatch center and the eight remote terminal computer systems at the
republic/provincial dispatch centers;
(b)   a Real-Time Control System (RTCS) for on-line power system management.
This was to consist of: (i) Real-time process computer systems at the JUGEL
and eight republic/provincial dispatch centers, (ii) a Data Communication
Network (DCN), (iii) Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) located at each major
power station and sub-station to be controlled, and (iv) Local Interface (LI)
units at RTU locations to link with power equipment being controlled;



-4-
(c)   a private, wide-band, microwave telecommunication system (TCS)
interconnecting the nine dispatch centers and all other main operating facilities;
(d)   telephone exchanges, telex networks, and teleprinters at all the nine dispatch
centers;
(e)   civil works, power supplies, and related infrastructure at all dispatch centers;
and
(f)   engineering services (about 1,200 man-months).
3.2.2 Part II of the project comprised a comprehensive training program for about 500
Yugoslav technicians, requiring about 1,000 man-months of instructor services.
3.2.3 The project was a fully integrated scheme. A common Loan Agreement bound all the
eight Borrowers to common actions, but it was agreed that the Bank loan would be
distributed among the eight Borrowers in proportion to the estimated cost of the project
located within their respective Republics and Provinces, including a share of the cost of the
JUGEL dispatch center at the Federal level. Given the complex nature of the project this
was not easy to do and the preparation of the estimate was left to the engineering consultant
responsible for the feasibility study of the EMS (para 4.1.1). The eight loans were
designated 2338-0 to 2338-7, to preserve their separate nature, but it was clearly understood
that all Borrowers must act together and in unison at all times in project implementation.
Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement required that the EMS Coordination Committee
established on December 26, 1980 should continue to be maintained for ensuring this close
coordination throughout the project implementation period. Thus, it was clear from the
outset that this type of power system control project could not go forward in former
Yugoslavia if one or two Borrowers opted out or failed to meet their agreed obligations.
Lack of real commitment among all the diverse Borrowers was a recognized risk. It actually
led to delays in project start-up (see para 5.2.2) and continued to be manifest throughout the
early implementation period.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1   Project Design
4.1. 1 Project design of the EMS started with a conceptual study, referred to as T6, within
the scope of a general management information study (MIS) carried out during 1978 under
the Second Power Transmission Project. Preliminary project reports on the EMS were
prepared in 1979 and 1980. The final feasibility study report, entitled "The Third Power
Transmission Project - Modernization and Further Development of the EMS and Joint
Operation in the Yugoslav Power System" was prepared in July 1981. JUGEL's staff and
staff of a special Coordination Committee set up on December 24, 1980 by power enterprises
of the Republics and Provinces (RAPs) provided the necessary power system data. The



-5-
Bank had required that the final feasibility study should: (i) be based on a preliminary
design and a detailed cost estimate, (ii) include a detailed project justification on the basis of
a least-cost comparison of alternative solutions, and (iii) provide a basis for phased
development in two stages. The Bank was also involved in the design through reviews of
draft feasibility reports by internationally recognized independent EMS experts commissioned
by the Bank. The final design report presented by JUGEL and its consultant included
detailed recommendations on project execution and management, procurement, training, and
the engineering and it set out the nature and extent of foreign and local consulting services
required. At the request of the Bank, the report also set out principles for allocation of the
loan among the eight Borrowers for this extremely complex and integrated project.
4.1.2 An important feature of the project design - which had grave implications for project
implementation (see para 5.3.3) - was the procurement strategy developed by the consultants
with the involvement of JUGEL, the Borrowers, the Bank and EIB and which was presented
in the Feasibility Study Report of 1981. It was based on the premise that there should be
common bidding for all nine dispatch centers and for each technical sub-system but it did not
ensure that they would be mutually compatible. The OPS and RTCS were further subdivided
into two - an essentially hardware component and the second for application software. It was
a condition of the Loan Agreement (Section 2.04 and Schedule 4) that contracts should: (a)
provide for the Borrowers' and JUGEL's staff training and (b) be grouped into thirteen
identified contract packages, listed in Schedule 4 - all of them to be procured only through
international competitive bidding (ICB). The Bank's standard (A,B,C,) formula for domestic
preference was also included in Schedule 4. This was not suitable for the key procurement
packages (see paras 5.3.5 and 5.3.6).
4.1.3 The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 4193-YU of April 1983, faithfully reflects the 1981
feasibility study report in all respects - including the Project Justification. Therefore, in this
PCR, it is necessary only to note a few points which were well established by the time
negotiations for the Bank loan took place in March 1983. First, computer technology was
changing fast; hence, existing technologies could become obsolete rapidly. Bid level designs
which had been commenced, had, therefore, to be completed quickly. The SAR noted in para
3.15 thatuJUGEL was using consultants acceptable to the Bank (see para 4.1.1.) to prepare
bid level designs, specifications and bidding documents and would also continue to use them
for assistance in evaluation of bids, contract negotiations and construction supervision. Para
3.20 of the SAR stated that prequalification of vendors/suppliers would be required to insure
that only qualified and experienced bidders submit bids. This did not happen (see para
5.2.12). Second, it was understood that it was essential to ensure compatibility of hardware
and software. However, at negotiations in March 1983, the Bank reiterated the requirement
of dividing the contracts to be financed under the loan, grouped into thirteen packages, (see
para 4.1.2). A request by the Borrowers to allow local procurement for small items was
denied by the Bank on the ground that, because of the complex nature of the project and to
ensure procurement of compatible hardware and software, ICB should apply (see para. 9 of
the minutes of negotiations). It is unfortunate that this very scheme of contract packaging,



-6-
which was covenanted, opened the door to incompatible bids and caused the most critical
difficulties in implementation of the project (paras 5.3.3 and 5.3.4).
4.2   Project Organization
4.2.1 As under the First and Second Power Transmission Projects (Loans 836-YU and
1469-YU), project execution was arranged to be done "under the overall authority" of the
Coordination Committee of the eight Borrowers. Eight project management teams were set
up in the RAPs. The federal project management team, started out with a small nucleus of
staff at JUGEL and was expanded only in 1988 after establishment of the federal level work
organization. JUGEL was designated as the "project coordinator" responsible for the
Coordination Committee's engineering, procurement, construction and Bank relations work.
On behalf of the Borrowers, JUGEL was to: (i) administer loan agreements and contracts,
(ii) administer loan disbursements and repayments, (iii) report on progress of the project and
(iv) jointly with the Borrowers, construct and operate the federal (JUGEL) EMS centers. In
the continuing absence of any executive authority - under the Yugoslav constitution - JUGEL
could discharge these responsibilities effectively only when: (i) it had actually built up its
own engineering, financial and administrative organization, and (ii) the Borrowers had
delegated all the necessary authority for day-to-day work. Legally, this required in the
decentralized, labor-controlled Yugoslav system, a number of "Self Management
Agreements" on construction coordination of the EMS System and joint construction of the
federal dispatch center by JUGEL, and arrangements for securing local financing. These
were made conditions of negotiations and Board presentation, of loan effectiveness, and of
schedules 6 and 7 to the Loan Agreement.
4.2.2 On paper, the above constituted a workable system, awaiting only the actual
establishment of a work organization for construction of the JUGEL dispatch center.
However, it did not take full account of several lessons learned from the implementation of
the Second Transmission Project (PCR report no. 5390-YU, December 1984 para 8.04).
These were that the:
(a)   domestic financing constraints would seriously affect progress of such joint
development projects in the power sector in former Yugoslavia;
(b)   division of a technically integrated project into eight effectively separate loans
to individual sovereign entities would require considerable skill in arriving at
decisions by consensus, administrative effort and time - thus imposing severe
constraints both on former Yugoslavia and on the Bank (these were vastly
compounded by the complex nature of the state-of-the-art EMS Project and the
amendment of the Loan Agreement in January 1988 (para 4.2.3 which altered
JUGEL's role);
(c)   reaI commitment of all the Borrowers to the project objectives was crucial for
success;



-7-
(d)   general reluctance in the former Yugoslav power sector to employ foreign
consultants; and
(e)   fragmented nature of the power sector, its inverted pyramid philosophy of
decision making and minimal accounting and financial reporting requirements
would have severe adverse impacts.
4.2.3 In the event, all of the weaknesses described in para. 4.2.2 except (a) - which was
not an issue since the project did not proceed for other reasons - manifested themselves under
the EMS project. There was little progress in project implementation for the first four years
(para 5.2.1) A tripartite review meeting of Yugoslav authorities, the EIB and the Bank held
on March 25-26, 1987 (see para. 5.2.15) reviewed, inter-alia, the organizational problems
encountered in this project. At this meeting the Borrowers informed the Banks of a subtle -
but important - change in the organizational arrangements. The Self Management Agreement
on Construction Coordination of the EMS and Joint Construction of May 5, 1985, referred to
in Preamble B of the Loan Agreement, had been amended by them on March 4, 1987 to
cover "Pooling funds for joint construction of JUGEL Dispatch Center and Implementation
Coordination of the EMS project". This weakened the construction responsibility of JUGEL,
but it was accepted by the Bank at the March 1987 meeting and the Loan Agreement was
later modified to reflect this change in January 1988. Effectively this reverted JUGEL's
status to a mere coordination agency which had to get the agreement of all the Borrowers on
every minor detail of procurement. Schedule 7, though not amended, was by-passed. The
new Work Organization was formally established in 1988 but the Banks' original objective of
strengthening JUGEL had been lost.
4.2.4 In July 1988, at the request of the Coordination Committee, the Bank pointed out
continuing weaknesses demanding urgent corrective action. These were the following:
(a)   there was no single person with clear apex responsibility for supervising and
reporting on project progress, and there was no progress reporting;
(bti   there was no realistic implementation program;
(c)   there was no updated project cost estimate or financing plan;
(d)   since 1984 there was no experienced engineering consultant with proven
experience in engineering, procurement, installation and commissioning of
EMS systems - to provide guidance to JUGEL and the Borrowers;
(e)   there were serious delays in payment, even on the only small "individual'
consultancy contract under Bank financing at that time, due to the complex
institutional arrangements for making foreign payments; and



-8-
(f)   communications with the Bank were poor on certain matters of substantial
importance, which could later cause difficulties in procurement matters (which
did happen).
4.2.5 JUGEL and the Borrowers quickly responded, promising remedial action on all of the
above. The Coordination Committee set up a Task Force to try and address the institutional
problems. In February 1989 JUGEL provided the first systematic progress report on the
project. This was also the last. Preparation of a detailed implementation program
commenced but was not continued. JUGEL's lack of executive authority - and now even
functional responsibility - was exposed. As events transpired, serious procurement
difficulties were encountered during 1988 - 1990. The project was redefined in 1990 (para
5.3.5) requiring a fresh start on engineering and procurement of the key project elements.
Throughout the implementation period JUGEL remained a weak and powerless organization
following cumbersome procedures - as it had to act through a coordination committee on
almost every issue at all times - and deal with all the Borrowers on every contract as, in
effect, eight separate sub-contracts. The organization as it was ultimately set up was totally
inappropriate for this complex project.
5. Project Implementation
5.1   At appraisal the project was expected to be completed in five years. In fact, the
implementation period was extended to ten years but the project was not completed and the
sector objectives were not met. To review this extraordinary result and draw appropriate
conclusions it would be useful to examine the course of implementation by the following time
periods - (i) the first four years until March 1987 (para 5.2) and (ii) the period thereafter
1987-1993 (para 5.3)
5.2   The First Four Years - until March 1987
5.2.1 This was a very bleak period. The total disbursement on the Bank Loan by end of
March 1987 of US$3.788 million was entirely for finance charges (front-end fee plus
commitment charges) except for a small amount of US$79,650 paid to the foreign consultant
in 1985. Bidding documents had not been prepared by the Borrowers and forwarded to the
Bank for its review for any of the thirteen packages referred to in para 4.1.2 by end of
March 1987. There were (a) delays in effectiveness of the loan; (b) major problems with the
consultancy arrangements; and (c) delays in establishing the Work Organization at the federal
level for project implementation, coordination etc. and these are reviewed in paras 5.2.2. to
5.2.13
5.2.2. Delays in loan effectiveness due to problems of definition of project scope
Loan 2338-YU was approved by the Board on July 26, 1993 for an amount of
US$120.0 million, the corresponding loan documents were approved by all the Borrowers
and the loan was signed for this amount on October 5, 1983. However, the loan could not



-9-
become effective until January 1985 primarily because the Guarantee Agreement could not be
ratified by the Federal Assembly. The Assembly insisted that the scope of the Crne Gore
(Montenegran) component with a foreign cost of $10.5 million should be reduced to $5.52
million, as the Montenegran power enterprise could not raise the required local finances.
This problem had surfaced at negotiations in March 1983 when the Yugoslav delegation
brought Montenegro's financing problem to the notice of the Bank and specifically requested
that: (a) the Montenegran component be reduced to cover only the critical requirements, and
(b) the size of the other seven loans be correspondingly increased. The request was tumed
down by the Bank on the grounds that Montenegro was strategically located within the
Yugoslav 380 kV network and its component should, therefore, be implemented in full as
planned (para. I of the minutes of negotiations). Ultimately, faced with continued resistance
from Montenegro, the Bank agreed to the Montenegro request. Loan 2338-1 was reduced
from $10.5 million to $5.52 million through a loan amendment letter which also
correspondingly reduced the loan amount of 2338-YU to US$115.02 million. The Guarantee
Agreement was then ratified by the Yugoslav Federal Assembly in December 1984, and the
loan finally became effective on January 14, 1985. It became evident that the importance of
the project was not equally appreciated by all the Borrowers. This was an ominous sign for
project implementation and fulfillment of an anticipated risk.
Delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness
5.2.3. There were two sets of conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The first could
be classified as "Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC)" covenants with implications for the
sector objectives. These are discussed in paras 5.2.4 to 5.2.7. The second set required
Borrowers to submit evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that all necessary agreements,
approvals, contents or decisions - which required involvement of republic and provincial
governments, constituent organization (BOALS), self-management communities of interest
and local banks assisting in financing, had been reached. These were required to secure
funds and ensure prompt project start-up. These aspects are discussed at para 5.2.8.
5.2.4 The LRMC covenants were: (i) Sections 5.04 (a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement,
regarding;the LRMC based tariff, the common methodology to be adopted for calculating
LRMC and its pre-requisite, the agreed national power development plan; and (ii) Section
7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement - a condition of effectiveness - on the first LRMC based
upward power tariff adjustment required. A national power supply development plan was
never developed by JUGEL and the Borrowers. The requirement of section 5.04 (b) that the
common methodology for calculation of LRMC should be agreed no later than January 31,
1984 was also not met. It should be pointed out that the relevant sections of the Loan
Agreement - 5.04 (a) and 5.04 (d) required the LRMC calculation to be made for each
utility's plant - not for the national power system - and it was, therefore, not consistent with
the Bank's or the Yugoslav Federal Governments' objectives recalled at para. 3.1.2 above.
It has been recorded that during March-April 1984 Bank staff and JUGEL planning
authorities carried out LRMC studies at the republic level using data provided by Serbia and
that some understandings had been reached with Serbian authorities on the methodology to be



-10-
followed. It was agreed that more work was required to be done and that the Bank would
provide written guidelines and follow up. Agreement on the methodology of calculation of
LRMC between the Bank and all the Borrowers as required was never reached. However,
the covenant was declared to have been met, evidently based on the progress of the
discussions thus far, which in retrospect proved overly optimistic. Discussions on LRMC
methodology continued fruitlessly for some time thereafter and were finally abandoned.
5.2.5 In 1985, former Yugoslavia passed a law on the System of Social Control of Prices
and the Social Plan for Yugoslavia (1986-1990) and its Long Term Measures for Economic
Stabilization (LTMES). They introduced a new system of pricing of energy, which was
called the "Common Elements" (CE). The JUGEL assembly adopted this method in lieu of
the LRMC method it had agreed with the Bank. The CE method did not require a national
power development plan or calculation of LRMC. It was based instead on: (i) estimated
financial costs of power supply in former Yugoslavia; (ii) published prices of electricity
supply in selected European countries; and (iii) prevailing fuel price indices in former
Yugoslavia. Details were provided to the Bank only late in 1987. By mid 1986, when no
progress had been made in developing a national power development plan or a common
method of calculation of LRMC and inflation was rampant, the Bank concluded that the
immediate priority was to increase electricity prices, irrespective of the criteria adopted.
This was the right thing to do as the structure of electricity pricing in former Yugoslavia was
considered satisfactory and it was the level that required continuous adjustment. The Bank
slowly moved towards accepting former Yugoslavia's CE methodology which later, in 1990,
was modified as the "Common Criteria" (CC) approach. The "CC" approach for energy
pricing was accepted by the Bank's SAL II team in 1990.
5.2.6 The absence of a national power development plan throughout the project
implementation period removed the basis for the dialogues intended under Section 4.06 of the
Loan Agreement relating to economic optimization of investment choices on a national basis.
This covenant was not met in form or spirit. In retrospect, this covenant was unrealistic
given the realities of the political situation in 1983 in former Yugoslavia and the Bank's past
experience in trying to achieve the same goal under the First and Second Power
Transmission Projects. Such assurances as were given by the Federal Government in this
regard in the context of SAL I were short-lived and were not followed up effectively after
the SAL I disbursement was completed within a year.
5.2.7 With the abandonment of LRMC by the Yugoslavs in 1985, the effectiveness
condition of Section 7.01 (a) lost its main economic thrust. Though not expressly stated in
the Loan Agreement, a 15% increase in real terms over the tariff level prevailing in March
1983 was agreed by the Bank to represent the first step in tariff increases. This increase was
made by end of 1984 thus meeting this condition of effectiveness.
5.2.8 In order to comply with the conditions of effectiveness laid down under sections
7.01(b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement, under the former Yugoslav system of self
management, the Borrowers had to secure the consent of some 350 basic organizations of



-11-
associated labor (BOALs) which were the constituent bodies of the Borrowers. A single
BOAL could block an entire agreement. JUGEL, with no enforcement authority, strove hard
to obtain all the relevant authorizations. But all this was laborious and time consuming. It
was only in January 1985 that Bank staff could certify that these conditions were, in fact,
met.
The Work of Consultants for preparation of bid level designs and bidding
documents
5.2.9 As reported in para 4.1.3. the joint venture of consultants, appointed under the second
Power Transmission Project was expected to continue with bid level designs and preparation
of technical specifications for the OPS, RTCS, and DCN. Local consultants were assigned
the task of preparing the technical specifications and bidding documents for the TCS.
Preparation of commercial sections of the bidding documents was not assigned to any of the
consultants at this stage.
5.2.10 The foreign consultant encountered difficulties in regard to payments in foreign
currency and on the extent of participation required of its local partners. Performance of
work of bid level designs and preparations of technical specifications was consequently
delayed. Finally, this experienced consultant declined to participate beyond the stage of
preparation of the technical specifications. Its involvement on the EMS project petered out
in 1985. Until 1987 there were no foreign consultants and the work which was assigned to
local consultants also floundered. This stood in contrast with the statement at para 3.19 of
the SAR that "Complete bidding documents are expected to be available by May 1983 at the
latest. Bidding documents for the Microwave Contract Package (TCS), which will be the
first to be bid (in January 1983), have been finalized". However, up to March 1987 no
bidding documents had been submitted for Bank review.
Microwave Telecommunication System (TCS)
5.2.11 The finalized TCS bidding document (para 5.2.10) could not be used for invitation of
bids on alcount of a decision by the Federal Government in 1985 that the TCS should not be
a private system for exclusive use of the power sector, - as designed by JUGEL, the
Borrowers and the Bank - but should be integrated with the country's national (PTT)
telecommunications system. This decision was appropriate. JUGEL, the Borrowers and the
local consultants - working very slowly - struggled with the consequences of this decision for
many years. It took eight more years to finalize the designs and prepare bidding documents
which were ready for review by the Bank, late in 1991. When it was finally cleared for
issue it was too late - due to the country's disintegration - to invite bids on that basis.
Prequalification of Vendors/Bidders.
5.2.12 As required (para 4.1.3) prequalification proceedings were undertaken by JUGEL
and the Borrowers for six of the thirteen contracts during 1983-1984. Lists of pre-qualified



-12-
bidders were prepared in consultation with the Bank. No minimum levels of proven
experience were specified, however, for the crucial OPS, RTCS and DCN. As bidding
documents were not ready until 1987 the prequalification done during 1983 to 1984 became
outdated. At the tripartite review meeting held in March 1987, the prequalification
requirement was eliminated with no other compensatory arrangements. This was a major
error (para 5.2.17).
Establishment of the Work Organization for the Joint Construction of the JUGEL
dispatch center.
5.2.13 Notwithstanding the precautionary steps taken by the Bank during project preparation
up to 1983, the important Work Organization for Construction Coordination of the EMS
Project and Joint Construction of the JUGEL dispatch center was not established during this
period (see para 4.2.3). The efforts of the Bank were frustrated by the complexities of the
former Yugoslav institutional system and the evidently different priorities given to this
project by the 350-odd basic constituent bodies. JUGEL and the technologically stronger
groups pushed hard while the weaker, and financially backward, groups dragged their feet.
None of the Borrowers were prepared, in the final analysis, to give JUGEL the functions,
responsibilities and finances necessary to construct and operate the JUGEL dispatch center as
conceived and agreed at project appraisal. The Bank tried to do its part during annual
supervision missions to overcome difficulties in this regard, but to no avail (para 4.2.3).
Construction of buildings for the nine dispatch centers
5.2.14 Acquisition of land and construction of new buildings for the republic and provincial
dispatch centers proceeded during this period but at varying paces. In Montenegro, this
work was considerably delayed by a dispute on the location of the center with claims by rival
city groups. There was no agreement during this period on the site of the federal (JUGEL)
dispatch at Belgrade.
The Tripartite - Yugoslav. Bank. EIB - meeting at Belgrade on
March 24-25, 1987
5.2.15 The organizational, consultancy and procurement problems described in paras 5.2.5
to 5.2.14 and the poor implementation record up to this point were discussed frankly at a
tripartite meeting of all Yugoslav authorities - including the Federal Government, the
Borrowers, and JUGEL - the Bank and EIB at Belgrade on March 24-25, 1987. The
discussion on the JUGEL organizational problem has been covered at para 4.2.3 above and is
not repeated here. After receiving assurances on the Borrowers' intention to speed up
project implementation of the project, the Banks agreed to its continuation subject to
fulfillment of certain conditions. The Bank and the EIB required quick action by definite
dates on: (i) organizational matters and actions to secure finances needed to start project
implementation; and (ii) appointment of foreign and local consultants to speed up preparation
of bidding documents for ICB. The Borrowers requested that grace and maturity periods of



-13-
the loans be extended to reflect the four-year delay in implementation of the project. This
was not accepted by the Bank as it was against its policy but the EIB accommodated the
Borrowers by cancelling the original loan and granting a new loan, which effectively
extended grace and maturity periods by five years. The Bank agreed to consider: (i)
modification of repayments within the original maturity period without affecting the average
life of the loan; and (ii) a four-year extension of the project completion date. These were
given effect to in an amendment to the Loan Agreement in February 1988 by reduction of
earlier maturities (repayment of which had commenced in March 1987) and increasing the
later ones (after 1992) while maintaining the original loan maturity schedule. This
amendment also effected changes in regard to opening of special accounts, allowing limited
non-ICB procurement (requested by the Borrowers). However, these changes were of
minimal impact.
Appointment of an individual foreign consultant and procurement procedures
5.2.16 An important decision taken at the March 24-25, 1987 tripartite meeting was to
appoint foreign and local consultants and ensure mobilization of their work in former
Yugoslavia before May 31, 1987. Extension of the contracts of the local consultants was a
formality. To meet the deadline in regard to foreign consultants some bending of the Bank
procurement procedures was necessary. In 1986 JUGEL and the Borrowers had proposed to
appoint an individual foreign consultant to help with completion of preparation of the bidding
documents and bid evaluation methodology. This was agreed to at the tripartite meeting.
Thereafter, the junior partner of the foreign Joint Venture which carried out the MIS study
during 1978-1982 was chosen without terms of reference and selection procedures by the
Borrowers as their "individual" consultant and the Bank quickly agreed to the choice. It
soon became evident, however, (see paras 5.3.3 and 5.3.4) that this firm did not have any
experience in: (a) design of RTCS systems; or (b) procurement of the key components of the
EMS project. This was, therefore, a poor decision by the Bank.
5.2.17 As the prequalification carried out earlier had expired (para 4.1.3 and 5.2.12) and a
new round of prequalification would delay the project further, this important requirement was
waived by the Bank. This was another poor decision by the Bank. Post qualification, with
minimum proven performance criteria, could have been introduced instead, but this was not
done.
5.2.18 Borrowers were advised to follow the Bank's sample bidding document of 1986 for
goods as a guide to preparation of the Commercial Conditions of contract, which was also
not appropriate for this complex EMS procurement. Bidding documents for the key contracts
- OPS, RTCS and DCN systems - were thus completed hastily and cleared equally hastily by
the Bank. The OPS bid invitation was issued in October 1987 and the RTS and DCN bids in
June 1988. The seeds of the serious procurement difficulties encountered in this project were
sown at this time.



-14-
5.3   Implementation Progress after March 1987
5.3.1  A building site for the JUGEL dispatch center, integral with the Serbian dispatch
center at Belgrade, was selected during 1987. Building construction was assigned to the
Serbian power enterprise (ZEP). As the two buildings were designed as a contiguous unit
construction proceeded smoothly thereafter. The federal level Work Organization - though
considerably weakened by the loan amendment of January 1988 (para 4.2.3), was finally
established in 1988. Recruitment of staff for the federal level project management team
commenced but proceeded slowly.
5.3.2  Project implementation during this period was most affected by: (a) the continuing
delay in preparation of final bidding documents for the TCS system; and (b) procurement
difficulties that arose on the five key contract packages - OPS (I), OPS(II), RTS(I) and RTS
(II) and the DCN. Work on the remaining seven contracts proceeded relatively smoothly
with no major problems. The causes for the delay in preparation of the TCS bidding
document have been explained at paras 5.2.10 and 5.2.11. As stated at para 5.2.18, bid
invitations for the OPS system were issued in October 1987 and those for the RTS and DCN
system in June 1988. After one and half years of bid extensions and evaluation, no contract
award recommendations could be made by JUGEL (para 5.3.3).
5.3.3 During November 4-6, 1987, Bank and EIB staff met with JUGEL staff at the office
of the individual consultant (5.2.16) at Brussels to review bid evaluation methodology. A
methodology was developed but was not formally sent to the Banks. At this meeting Bank
staff first noticed the problem of incompatibility inherent in separation of hardware and
software packages and explained that: (i) separate bids should be evaluated on their own
without reference to other bids, even if the bid invitations etc. were coincidental; (ii) the
potential problem of incompatibility of the lowest bids in each group should be resolved by
immediately issuing an amendment inviting a single bid - rather that two - for the OPS
system; and (iii) this same precaution should be taken for the other two technical sub-systems
(RTCS & DCN). JUGEL staff did not accept this Bank advice for the OPS on the grounds
that: (i) kids for the OPS had already been issued; and (ii) some bidders who were pre-
qualified earlier (1983-1984) might object. They took Bank advice into account for the
RTCS bids issued in June 1988. It was unfortunate that JUGEL and the Borrowers rejected
Bank advice as it is now evident that the incompatibility problems ultimately made it
impossible for JUGEL and the Borrowers to complete bid evaluation and make contract
recommendations for any of the five bids for the key components.
5.3.4 The Bank concluded by end December 1987 that serious mistakes had been made in:
(a) procurement packaging at the start of the project; (b) the appointment of an inexperienced
individual foreign consultant in 1987; and (c) waiving the requirement of proven relevant
experience for both engineering consultants and bidders for design, supply installation and
commissioning of a complex EMS system. It then: (a) appointed an experienced specialist
in design and construction of EMS systems as part of the Bank supervision teams during the



-15-
next two years; (b) prescribed new minimum past proven experience requirements, to be met
both by engineering consultants and bidders for EMS project components; (c) prepared
appropriate terms of reference for foreign engineering consultants services required; and (d)
insisted that JUGEL and the Borrowers select and appoint a qualified engineering consultant
following established Bank procedures. Early in 1988 JUGEL and the Borrowers agreed to
implement all these Bank requirements. Despite the urgency, the invitation for consultancy
was issued only in June 1988 and a qualified consultant was finally appointed only in July
1989. It was the first time since the very early years of project preparation that there was a
competent, technical expert guiding the implementation of the project. It took a little time
for the consultant to settle in given the reluctance of JUGEL and the Borrowers to use
foreign consultants, but the ice was broken soon and a constructive collaborative effort
ensued thereafter.
5.3.5  Several discussions took place in Belgrade and Washington during October 1988 and
February 1990 to try and resolve the procurement problem described in para 5.3.3. The
discussions were on principles as no bid evaluation reports were received by the Bank. The
Bank reiterated its advice, which EIB concurred with, that the best course would be to:
(a) cancel all five bids; (b) redesign the key project component using the latest, proven,
technology (thus saving investment costs and introducing needed flexibility); and (c) invite
bids on the basis of a single RTCS contract combining all the OPS, RTCS and DCN
functions. JUGEL and the Borrowers were more concerned initially with finding a solution
within the framework of the five separate bids which, in their view, would maximize
participation by Yugoslav bidders. Ultimately - after a tripartite review meeting in
Washington in February 1990 - in March 1990 they took Bank advice described above and
moved rapidly to: (a) cancel all five bids; (b) redesign the project; (c) update project
economic justification; and (d) prepare new bidding documents. The availability, by this
time of an experienced foreign consultant and JUGEL's confidence in the consultant, enabled
the speedy and efficient correction action, which followed (para 5.3.6).
5.3.6 The JUGEL decision on redesign of the project (para 5.3.5), scrapping the original
phasing of the project key components, and re-bidding for an integrated RTCS system was
followed up by an important tripartite meeting at Belgrade in April 1990 to which, at
JUGEL's request, the Bank sent its Chief Procurement Advisor and its EMS consultant.
This meeting was a breakthrough in communications between the Bank and JUGEL and the
Borrowers on the entire procurement aspect, which had dogged the project from the start.
Two important changes were introduced. First the Bank's industrial formula was introduced
in place of the 'A,B,C,' method for domestic preference. - covenanted in Schedule 4 of the
Loan Agreement. JUGEL and the Borrowers understood that this method would enable
maximization of participation of competent local firms without compromising project
integrity. Second, the two-stage bidding procedure - which was more appropriate for such
complex (design, supply and erect) tumrkey projects - was explained to JUGEL and the
Borrowers and was accepted. Prequalification of bidders was reintroduced and evaluation
methodology was streamlined. Detailed clauses for introduction in the commercial bidding
documents concerning domestic preference, currency, pricing, and two stage bidding were



-16-
provided by Bank staff. These principles were adopted for the TCS system also. A sound
basis was thus laid for preparation of acceptable revised bidding documents for the RTCS
and TCS systems.
5.3.7 The report on redesign of the EMS project prepared in April 1990 by JUGEL and
the Borrowers with the help of its foreign consultant - the ECC - was reviewed and accepted
by the Bank and EIB at a tripartite meeting held in Washington in July 1990. The report
indicated that the cost of the project would be about US$30.0 million lower than the project
cost of US$348.0 million estimated by JUGEL in February 1990. The Borrowers later
requested that an amount of US$25.84 million out of the Bank loan be cancelled. This was
agreed to. It took more than a year, however, for the details of the cancellation to be
worked out by the Borrowers and the cancellation was effected in 1991.
5.3.8  As part of the redesigned project JUGEL and the Borrowers, with the assistance of
their consultant ECC, developed a small initial "zero phase," component of the RTC
intended to be procured within a year. This was to be used for limited planning purposes
and for training of Yugoslav technicians in the latest computer techniques. The proposal was
recommended by the engineering consultants as this phase could proceed without pre-
qualification and it could be ensured that the system would be compatible with the main
RTCS. This zero phase development proposal, expected to cost about US$3.0 million, was
agreed to by the Banks. JUGEL and the Borrowers moved forward on implementation of
this small component.
5.3.9 Cancellation of bidding for the key project components - the OPS, RTCS and the
DCN - and redesign of this part of the project in 1990 postponed the project completion date
to end of December 1995. Disbursements under the Bank loan at that time - mid 1990 - was
about US$17.0 million. Under the new arrangernents agreed, less than half of the loan was
expected to be disbursed by the loan closing date of December 1993. The principal concern
of the Borrowers at this stage was that financing of the project through the existing Bank
loan would result in the Borrowers paying substantial commitment fees on funds that would
not be needed until much later and also in negative net disbursements in some of the years,
as repayments had been modified under the February 1988 loan amendment (para 5.2.15).
JUGEL and the Borrowers sent a special delegation to meet the Bank management (the Vice
President EMENA) on August 7, 1990. The delegation: (a) appreciated that the Bank could
not extend the existing Bank loan maturity period; and (b) requested, alternatively, that part
of the existing Bank loan - in the order of US$60.0 to $70.0 million - be cancelled. At the
same time, the delegation sought assurances of a new loan in the order of US$40.0 to 50.0
million during the second half of 1991 to cover financing requirements beyond December
1993. This proposal was considered, but not accepted, by the Bank.
5.3. 10 The project now entered its most difficult phase. On the technical side, the project
design had been finally put on a sound basis. With competent engineering consultants and
guidance of the Bank on procurement matters, preparation of technical specifications and
bidding documents for the RTCS and TCS systems was completed and reviewed by the



-17-
Bank. Prequalification for the RTCS was completed satisfactory. On the financial side there
was no solution in sight for the difficult problems ahead for the Borrowers (para 5.3.9). The
political situation in former Yugoslavia had begun to deteriorate in 1991. The country
disintegrated in 1992 with the formation of Slovenia and Croatia as separate countries.
Implementation of the original project and achievement of the project objectives was no
longer possible. The EIB pulled out, cancelling its loan in February 1992.
5.3.11 The Bank reviewed the situation internally towards the beginning of 1992. Clearly,
the original project objectives were now lost. Construction of the federal dispatch center was
also no longer feasible. Finally, it informed the Borrowers on May 29, 1992 that: (a)
continuation of the combined procurement of complex system control and telecommunication
systems (and breaking them up into country components) would be neither appropriate nor
possible without prior agreement (which was unlikely) among the countries involved; (b)
financing under Loan 2338-YU would be continued only for those contracts now in progress
whose completion was expected in 1993; (c) the outstanding balance of the loan should be
cancelled; and (d) that payments on all contracts, up to and including RTCS ("O") should be
completed by end December 1993. The Bank did not accept the Borrowers' proposals to
proceed with the implementation of the project on the basis of the bidding documents
prepared during 1990 and 1991.
5.3.12 In the end the Borrowers accepted the Bank decisions. The contract for the RTCS
(0) component was amended, deleting its federal component. The rest of this small
component was implemented in those new countries where it was legally and practically
possible to complete the work. Ultimately this work could only be completed in Slovenia
and Croatia.
6.    Project Results
6.1   Part I of the project was not completed. The physical implementation of the key
components - RTCS and the TCS - was not even started. Only a small training phase of the
operation planning system, developed in 1991 as part of the Redefined Project, was
completed and that too, only in two republics, viz., Slovenia and Croatia. Some equipment
was delivered to JUGEL and the other Republics, as allowed under UN sanctions provisions.
Part II of the project (the comprehensive training program) was also not implemented. The
project therefore had no technical impact at all on the operation of the former Yugoslav
power grid. Its sector objectives were also not achieved.
6.2   As the project was not physically implemented, it had no incremental impact on the
entities' financial performance. The difficulties in getting the Borrowers to meet the LRMC-
based financial covenants (para 5.2.4-5.2.7) or even the Common Elements (later Common
Criteria) - based levels as required by law, together with the continued reluctance on the part
of the Federal and Republic governments on socio-political grounds to increase electricity
prices in a timely and adequate manner, continued to affect adversely the financial
performance of the Borrowers. The Bank was further constrained in obtaining adequate



-18-
performance because of the lack of enforceable covenants. In retrospect it appears that the
idea of replacing the well tried and successful cash-generation covenant - which was
recommended at appraisal and had been cleared by the Bank's Loan Committee - with an
imprecisely worded and untried LRMC covenant - far from consolidating past efforts may
actually have been another contributing factor in obtaining the opposite result. Important
lessons to be drawn are that: (a) a precisely stated financial covenant would have been
preferable to a vaguely worded LRMC covenant; and (b) assurances given by Government in
the context of quick-disbursing structural adjustment loans were not effective in ensuring
implementation. Institutional improvements in financial organization and management were
secured only to a limited extent due to the absence of any formal institutional development
components for this purpose under the project.
Economic Results
6.3   A review of economic results has not been carried out in this PCR because the project
was not completed. However, it must pointed out that the Redefined Project Report prepared
by JUGEL and the Borrowers in 1990 noted that the 1989 Feasibility Study and the Bank's
SAR had overestimated the economic benefits of the project. Thanks to the reduction of
costs the net project benefits were deemed to be positive, however. The ERR was re-
estimated at 10% as against 16% at appraisal. Unfortunately, neither could be tested.
7. Sustainability
7.1   The question of sustainability of projects benefits is not relevant as the project was not
physically implemented. Sustainability of the limited institutional improvements can only be
reviewed at a much later stage given the drastically altered political situation in former
Yugoslavia.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   Bank Performance during project preparation and appraisal must be rated as mixed.
On the Qne hand in the early eighties it correctly established the need, in the former
Yugoslav context, for a modem computerized EMS dispatch system which even the separate
countries continued to press for after 1992, albeit in a different form as far as the JUGEL
center was concerned. The Bank ensured that one of the best known engineering firms was
chosen to do the engineering work. It also enlisted the services of internationally known
individual consultants on its project preparation missions for a second opinion. On the other
hand, in the design of the procurement aspect of the project during 1981-1982 the Bank did
not take into account the complex nature of the EMS which required a unified supply and
erect - turnkey - concept, not that of supply of simple goods, which was the procedure
followed from 1981-1987. The Bank also did not identify the errors made in the design of
contract phasing by JUGEL and its consultants which did not ensure compatibility of
hardware and software being procured. These were compounded by errors made during
early 1987 in: (a) waiving the prequalification requirements of bidders, with no relevant



-19-
minimum post-qualification requirements specified; and (b) not insisting on an experienced
foreign consultant to be appointed and allowing instead an inexperienced individual consultant
to take on the crucial tasks of preparing bidding documents, evaluation of bids and contract
negotiations. Though all these mistakes were fully corrected by strenuous Bank efforts
during 1988-1992, the Bank cannot escape the responsibility for the mistakes made on the
engineering design and procurement aspects during 1981-1987.
8.2   Bank financial supervision was affected by the lack of enforceable covenants and of
well-defined institutional development components. Furthermore, the overall weak
accounting and auditing framework did not meet internationally accepted standards and
practices. During implementation of the Second Power Transmission Project strong financial
teams with three Bank Staff members took part in each supervision as was essential for such
large and complex projects involving numerous borrowers. This was not the case under this
project, where adequate numbers of financial specialists were not deployed and supervision
of financial matters was at times handled by non-financial staff. Nevertheless, through its
periodic supervision, the Bank was able to have a limited impact on the development of the
power enterprises' financial management and reporting practices, depending upon the degree
of receptivity to external assistance of the different borrowers.
8.3   Overall Bank supervision was neither intensive (see Part III, Table 2) nor well
focused in the period 1983-1987. It was intensified and better focused, particularly on the
technical aspects, during the later period of implementation (1988 to 1992). Considering the
comlexity of the project, the length of the implementation period and its continued problem-
project status, the total supervision effort of the Bank of 324 staff weeks was justified.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1   Although the small nucleus staff of JUGEL were obviously committed to the success
of the project and worked strenuously throughout, the commitment of the Borrowers varied
and the Federal Government did not intervene with sufficient conviction to ensure that this
scheme, which had high national priority, was quickly and successfully implemented.
Perhaps the greatest weakness of JUGEL and the Borrowers was their continued reluctance -
demonstrated amply during the Second Power Transmission project - to employ foreign
consultants and to utilize their far more extensive and essential experience. Instead, JUGEL
and the Borrowers continued to rely on the assumed capability of local consultants, which
proved to be no substitute for experience, in state-of-the-art components. The benefits which
JUGEL and the Borrowers actually derived during the years 1990-1993 from the experienced
foreign consultant appointed late in the project implementation period convinced JUGEL and
the Borrowers of the price paid for their overconfidence in the early years. If so, the lesson
could have valuable implications for the future as the grid interconnections remain and some
modified EMS system may be eventually required.
9.2   The Borrowers' performance in meeting financial covenants was affected by the
factors described earlier. On the institutional side, limited improvements were achieved, and



-20-
to varying extent, by the different borrowers. Grater improvements were constrained by the
external environment -- the continuing socio-political restraints on timely and adequate
increases in electricity prices; the weaknesses in the prevailing accounting and auditing
systems; and the staffing and resource constraints of the local accounting and auditing service
(SDK). The Borrowers' financial reporting continued to be weak, and there were frequent
delays in timely submission of audit reports. These aspects, however, were common to most
Bank projects in former Yugoslavia at the time.
10. Project Relationship
10.1 The relationships between the Bank, JUGEL and the Borrowers on an extremely
complex and difficult project - which maintained problem-project status throughout the ten
year implementation period - was generally satisfactory. Strains did develop during some
periods but acceptable solutions were found after strenuous efforts on the part of the Bank
and the Borrowers to resolve most problems in a congenial atmosphere. The relationships
between the Bank and the Borrowers became difficult in the later stages, as the Bank could
not meet the most persistent requests of the Borrowers to their satisfaction, viz., relief from
repayment of the Bank loan by extending the repayment period of the loan or cancelling the
undisbursed part of Loan 2338-YU with the assurance of a new loan. This problem was first
brought up in March 1987 and continued until 1991, as the project targets continued to slip.
No solution to this problem was found and this did not help to improve the relationship
between the Bank and the Borrowers.
11. Consulting Services
11.1  The project suffered from poor engineering consulting services from Board approval
in 1983 to about 1989 when, after following standard Bank procedures for selection of
engineering consultants, a foreign firm which met precisely defined experience requirements
was finally chosen. This firm performed well, but its task could not be completed on
account of the country's disintegration. The performance both of the inexperienced
individual foreign consultant - who was hired for a short period during 1987-1989 - and of
the local "onsultants - whose services were extended from the project preparation period -
were less than satisfactory when judged by the results. The local consultants were
inexperienced and suffered from lack of guidance from an experienced foreign lead firm for
most of the project implementation period.
12.   Cofinancing
12.1 The EIB loan of 67 million ECU was made under parallel financing arrangements in
December 1982, several months before the Bank loan was approved. Out of the EIB loan
amount 13.887 million ECU was disbursed by July 1987. The balance of 53.113 ECU was
annulled in 1992. The Bank is not aware of the nature of the EIB disbursements - mainly
3.934 million ECU to the power enterprise of Bosnia-Hercegovina and 9.271 million ECU to
the power enterprise of Croatia - which took place on September 12, 1986 prior to the first



-21-
tripartite meeting of March 1987 (para 5.2.15), when preparation of the bidding documents
for the thirteen ICB packages had not yet been completed.
12.2 The EIB loan provided that goods to be financed by EIB should be purchased "as far
as it is appropriate and possible, by international competition open at least to the nationals of
former Yugoslavia, of the member states of the European Economic Community and
Switzerland". EIB favored contracts to be funded under its loan to be awarded to suppliers
from EIB member countries. To accommodate EIB, without violating Bank ICB procedures,
the Yugoslavs, EIB and the Bank agreed to follow phased bidding (i.e. the thirteen ICB
packages, para 4.1.2). EM was to finance the first contract(s) with the lowest evaluated
bid(s) coming from an EIB member country. In the event - considered unlikely - that no
supplier from an EIB country became the lowest evaluated bidder for any of the procurement
packages, EIB agreed that it would - though reluctantly - finance such contracts. The EIB
loan was not set up to finance any consultancy services. As almost all of the EIB
disbursement took place prior to 1987 - when bidding for the first of the thirteen ICB
packages was invited - the conclusion must be that the disbursement was for works outside
the scope of the project defined in the Loan Agreement.
12.3  This unusual parallel financing arrangement made it difficult for JUGEL and the
Borrowers to even prepare a complete project financing plan and present it to the Banks
during supervision. The lesson to be drawn is that in such parallel financing schemes the
lending agencies should always agree at the start of the project on the specific items to be
financed by the respective loans. This was not done under this project and it led to
uncertainties and misdirection of cofinancing provided for the project.
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.1  There was no field supervision of the project after mid 1992. As the project was not
completed no completion mission was carried out. Data on the exact dates of completion of
the ancillary items of the project are therefore not available. The PCR has been prepared on
the basis of the extensive data available in the Bank files.
4
13.2 No project cost data have been included for comparison with the SAR projections as
the project was not completed. It has to be pointed out that a meaningful comparison of
costs would not have been possible in any case because the Bank's SAR did not contain
detailed project cost estimates and the project cost summary in the main text of the SAR does
not serve this purpose. The customary sections on Detailed Project Costs and Financing
therefore not included in this PCR.



-22-
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Loan No. 2338-2-YU (Croatia)
A. Introduction
2.01    The Loan Agreement to finance the construction of the Third Power Transmission
Project - the 320 kV Yugoslav national grid - Energy Management System, No. 2338-YU,
was made on October 5, 1983 between IBRD and the power enterprises of the republics and
provinces of the Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FSFR) for an amount of
US$120,000,000.00. Out of this amount, under the Agreement No. 2338-2-YU, Hrvatska
Elektroprivreda was allocated 15.75%, or US$18,900,000.00.
2.02    The loan was approved on the basis of a feasibility study, and the guarantee for the
loan was approved by FSFR, which was published in the FSFR Official Gazette in December
1984.
2.03    Foreign currency guarantee no. 108 was issued by Zagrebacka Banka on
October 19, 1984 for the utilization of the loan through Narodna Banka Jugoslavije,
Belgrade.
B. Loan Utilization as at July 31. 1994
2.04
APPROVED         SPENT        BALANCE
IA   US$             US$      j     US$
a) Materials, equipment & software    11,230,000.00   1,437,534.51    9,792,465.49
b) Construction work for DC ZJE      470,000.00                    470,000.00
c) Consilting services & training  1,340,000.00     254,694.48    1,085,305.52
d) Interest and other charges      4,360,000.00   1,097,691.43    3,362,308.57
e) Front end fee                      47,132.00      47,132.00
f) Contingent                      1,452,868.00                  1,452,868.00
[  TOTAL                         I 18,900,000.00   2,837,052.42   16,062,947.58



-23-
2.05    By our letter of September 3, 1993, we cancelled a portion of the undisbursed loan
in the amount of US$15,931,469.58 and reserved US$131,478.00 payable under Contract
No. 2130-25 of June 4, 1991 made with the supplier EMPROS SYSTEMS
INTERNATIONAL USA, for completion of the work on the supply of real time control
system phase "O" (RTCS "O"), which was approved by your fax of November 29, 1993.
2.06    Under APPLICATION 1: payment of US$75,065.47 was made on April 7, 1994
to SIEMENS ENERGY AUTOMATION INC., so that the remaining undisbursed portion of
the loan amounted to US$56,412.53. Given that SIEMENS ENERGY AUTOMATION INC.
has not completed the RTCS "O" project before the deadline for the utilization of the
undisbursed portion of the loan, Hrvatska Elektroprivreda will have to finance the smooth
completion of the project out of its own funds.
2.07    The utilized portion of the loan amounting to US$2,837,052.42 has been repaid
until March 1, 1993. According to our data as at July 31, 1994, only the last withdrawal of
US$75,965.47 (and interest accrued) remains to be repaid.
2.08    Due to the outbreak of the war, the following contracts entered into have not been
completed:
Unioninvest Sarajevo (LI)
Koncar Zagreb (RTU)
Energy and Control Consultants (ECC) - Consulting services.
The situation today does not give rise to the hope that these contracts could be renewed or
completed.
C. Effectiveness of the Relationship between
Hrvatska Elektroprivreda and IBRD
2.09    From today's perspective it is evident that the model of the project management
was perniciously ineffective and bad for Hrvatska Elektroprivreda, and that it had extremely
destructive effects on all activities related to the completion of the Energy Management
System (EMS), which had been financed and constructed to a significant extent by HEP itself
before 1985. HEP's intention in entering this project was to expand, modernize, and
improve the EMS already constructed, which, however, due to the total unpreparedness of
JUGEL and most of the power enterprises of the republics and provinces of the former
Yugoslavia, resulted in the total blockade of all activities on modemization, expansion and
improvement of the HEP's EMS already constructed by that time.



-24-
2.10    In our opinion, the principal reasons for such an evident failure and ineffectiveness
of the project are the following:
*  Adoption of a wrong model where 9 technically and financially integrated units
were to be treated and managed as one project, but with 8 Borrowers. This
unavoidably resulted in a number of negative consequences, which would have been
difficult to overcome even in a far more homogenous environment than that existing
in the former Yugoslavia in 1983. The evident consequences of the model as
adopted were:
-   An extremely large and complex project was created with undefined method of
responsibility and coordination, which was difficult to supervise and manage.
-   The speed of the project was dependent on the (in)capability of the most
incapable Borrower, whose unpreparedness to make decisions or discharge
obligations for an ongoing phase slowed down the Project for all participants.
Project costs and damages were enormously increasing due to the total delay,
which had to be borne by all participants irrespective of the fault for the delay.
*  The Bank insisted on communicating with a staff service to be formally responsible
for the management of the overall project, which was supported by JUGEL; but
such model was not substantially realistic since each Borrower rightfully insisted
that it should maximally influence and control the progress of its own project it
financed.
*  The centralized powers JUGEL staff services disposed of in respect of withdrawals
for and on behalf of all Borrowers made it possible to severely abuse these powers,
which took place after the outbreak of the war of aggression Serbia waged. We
reiterate this case here even though it was brought to your attention in our letter of
November 25, 1992.
2.11    Due to the war of aggression, Hrvatska Elektroprivreda, by its decision of
August 28, 1991, ceased to finance the construction of the DC ZJE federal dispatch center
and notified the Bank thereof in its letter no. 3/1-2564/92/JK of March 9, 1992.
Nevertheless, the Bank made a payment to JUGEL's account, and without our approval, for
the construction of DC ZJE:
Under Application 64 of July 30, 1992       US$ 3,574.77
Under Applicationi 65 of September 11, 1992    US$14,299.02
Both above payments were made after U.S.A. Executive Order No. 12810 of June 5, 1992
had become effective introducing sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia



-25-
(Serbia and Montenegro). Our request for your explanation of this omission has not been
answered to date.'
2.12    We generally consider that the model of managing this project did not enable direct
contacts to be made between the Bank and the Borrowers, so that the influence and initiative
by any Borrower was maximally attenuated by the complex management model of the
project. A fundamental right and obligation of each Borrower to exert influence on and be
responsible for its project was in this case suppressed, which led to very bad results of the
project. By contrast, the Bank insisted that JUGEL - the only entity without the capacity of
a Borrower - centrally manage the projects of all Borrowers.
2.13    We believe that future projects regardless of their complexity and number of
Borrowers can be managed successfully only if they are made with each Borrower separately
and where the projects constitute a single technical solution then prior standards need to be
defined for their mutual interconnections, which is a normal procedure for interconnecting
more complex technical systems.
2.14    We suggest that a lesson be derived from this negative experience about the
necessity of the direct contact between the Bank and a Borrower with the Borrower
being directly technically and financially responsible for its own project.2
D. Utilization of EIB Loan and EIB - HEP Relationship
2.15    In 1987 Hrvatska Elektroprivreda withdrew ECU 9.2 million out of EIB loan, on
account of the investments made until then in its own EMS. These funds unfortunately were
not utilized for EMS expansion, but rather at the time of the highest inflation for other
investments inside and outside HEP, so that from the EMS perspective they had no effect on
the project for which they were intended. HEP has regularly discharged its repayment
obligation, and the contacts between EIB and the Borrower under this loan were minimal.
I/ No explanation was required as the payments were made in accordance with
procedures agreed to by the Bank and Hrvatska Elektroprivreda in 1983, which
were never formally rescinded. Requests for disbursement received by the Bank
through the authorized agency, JUGEL, were accepted when they were received
because the Loan Agreement continued to be in force.
2/ See para 4.2.1, Part I. According to the Loan Agreement signed by
Hrvatska Elektroprivreda, and other Borrowers, JUGEL was the responsible
project coordinator. Direct contacts between the Bank and each Borrower were
not ruled out and, in fact, took place during Bank supervision. The lesson to
be learned, as stated at para 9.1, Part I, is that the problem of obtaining
and sustaining real commitment to agreements reached should not be
underestimated.



-26-
E. Project Implementation and Conclusions for the Future
2.16    RTCS "O' Project is the only project likely to be fully completed for HEP in
accordance with all the agreed modifications resulting from "force majeure." This is indeed
a poor result, which is unfortunately the consequence of all circumstances and course of
events which are systematically reviewed in the Bank's report.
2.17    HEP today operates an obsolete EMS, which was formally commissioned in 1985
and which, in terms of technology, concept, and design, is 15 years old. HEP's EMS has
been maintained and expanded independent of the Loan 2338-2-YU so that we now dispose
of a full EMS system for which HEP constructed its own AGC (Automatic Generation
Control) this year to substitute the previous central AGC function of JUGEL in the new
circumstances of the independent state.
2.18    In the proximate future, HEP will have to replace the existing obsolete EMS system
with a new system as useful life of equipment installed 10 to 15 years ago expires. It is
certain that a support from the Bank would be very welcome to such project in the form
similar to the loan we have not been able to utilize under the 2338-YU project through no
fault of ours.
m:\wc\2338-2.pcr



-27-
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Loan No. 2338-4-YU (Slovenia)
A. Project Identity
2.01
Name:    Third Power Transmission Project, also referred to as the Energy Management
System (EMS) Project
Loan No: 2338-4-YU
Country:  Slovenia
Borrower: ELES - Elektro Slovenia, Public Enterprise for Transmission, Purchase, Import
and Export of Electric Energy, Ljubljana, Hajdrihova 2
as the legal successor of
EGS - Electric Power Economy of Slovenia, Maribor, Vetrinjska 2
B. Introduction
2.02      Loan Agreement IBRD 2338-YU, in the amount of US$120 million for the Third
Power Transmission Project / Energy Management System Project, was signed on October 5,
1983. The Guarantee Agreement was ratified by the Yugoslav Federal Assembly in
December 1984.
2.03      The Borrower for the Slovene portion of the loan was the Electric Power
Economy of Slovenia. The Slovene portion of the loan amounted to US$16.2 million under
Guarantee No. 1571/84 of the Credit Bank of Maribor, dated February 2, 1984.
2.04    , The Project related to the above-mentioned loan has not been completed,
therefore,f this report covers only the disbursement and partial implementation of Loan IBRD
2338-4-YU. Due to the disintegration of Yugoslavia, the assessment of the implementation
of the project and of the Borrower's (EGS-ELES) and Bank's (IBRD) performance during
evolution and implementation is divided into two parts, covering that period in which JUGEL
was the only representative of loan management and that when the ELES became the Bank's
direct partner.



-28-
C. Report on Loan 2338-4-YU Disbursement
2.05       The approved and disbursed loan amounts are summarized in the following table:
(in US$)
| ____Approved    |    Disbursed    |  RCC and PIS        IDC
Materials, equipment      9,630,000       6,139,558.58     5,445,315.39      694,243.19
Civil work, JDC             410,000                                                      l
Consultants training      1,150,000        197,338.91        174,253.48      23,135.43
Loan charges              3,740,000       1,258,996.08     1,107,412.97      151,583.11
Front end fee               40,399          40,399.00        35,534.96        4,864.04
Unallocated               1,229,601
Special Account                              1,120.41         1,120.41
TOTAL                J   16,200,000       7,637,462.98     6,763,637.21   |   873,825.77
2.06       The funds from the loan were spent on:
(a)  Telecommunication Equipment in RCC (Electric Power Automatic
Telephone Exchange, Facsimile Equipment, Telegraph Multiplexer,
Teleprinters, Interphone System);
(b)  Remote Terminal Units, Local Interface Devices, Measuring Converters,
Systems for Local Control);
(c)  Real Time Control System - Phase "O";
f (d)  Foreign consultants; and
(f)  Bank expenses.
The amount of US$8,562,537.02, which the EGS-ELES was unable to use, was cancelled by
the World Bank on April 27, 1994.
2.07       There are, therefore, only two main sub-systems to be implemented: the Real
Time Control System - Phase 1 and the Telecommunication System. Equipment already in
use will be used with full effectiveness after the implementation of the RTCS I and TCS.
Benefits for the Power Enterprise and National benefits will be achieved after completion of
the entire anticipated EMS.



-29-
2.08      The EGS started repayment on March 1, 1987, and continued loan repayment
after 1991 (from 1992 the ELES rather than the EGS). The sum repaid, including maturity
as of September 1, 1994, is US$ 6,745,125.52. The course of the loan repayment and
disbursement was in effect simultaneous because of the delay in project implementation. The
portion of the loan disbursed will comply with the Amortization Schedule to be repaid in
1998, whereas the revised maturity amounts after 1994 will be considerably smaller than
were originally scheduled.
D. About the Project
2.09     The beginning of the construction of the EMS dates back to 1976 when the
Slovene Electric Power Economy accepted the Bases for Slovene EPS Control. The first
Investment Program for the Slovene RCC was drawn up in July 1981. The activities detailed
in this were later cancelled due to the Yugoslav EMS project.
2.10      According to the MIS Study, in Slovenia the Development Guidelines for the
Business-Technical Area of the Integrated Information System (1IS) of the EGS which were
accepted consisted of:
(a) the Energy Management System of the Slovene EPS; and
(b) the Business Management System.
The Business Management System was successfully erected.
2.11      The main objective of the EGS was to install, operate, and manage a modem
Energy Management System for the Slovene EPS (EMS-SLO), as a constituent part of the
Yugoslav EMS, consisting of the Republic Control Center and the Pertinent Information
System (RCC and PIS), Area Control Centers, and Distribution Control Centers. The Area
Control Centers and Distribution Control Centers should have been connected through the
DCN, but these centers were not the object of purchase under the EMS Project. Each
electric ppwer facility should have been covered only once from a data acquisition point of
view, while all Control Centers obtain all necessary information through the uniform DCN
network.
2.12     The EGS joined the Yugoslav EMS project for reasons of Technological
uniformity and expected a reduction of the overall project costs through coordinated project
realization at JUGEL level.



-30-
E. Project Review up to 1991
2.13     The Investment program for the RCC and PIS of EPS of Slovenia was drawn up
in April 1983. In December 1983, it was approved by the EGS and in December 1984, by
the Self Management Community of the Slovene Power Sector. The investment was
registered with the State Financial Inspection Body on April 25, 1985. The estimated cost of
the Project was US$53,230,150, and it should have been executed by December 31, 1987.
Construction began in May 1986.
2.14     Self-management procedures in Slovenia also prolonged the time from the
decision for investment implementation to investment registration. On the other hand, at the
start of the project, domestic funds were at the investors' disposal and the only obstacle was
JUGEL's unfinished documentation.
2.15     In 1987 and 1988, bidding documents were draw up and procurement procedures
were initiated through five separate tenders for the Operation Planning System (OPS), Real
Time System (RTS), and Data Communication System (DCN). JUGEL's and Borrower's
teams completed evaluations and made recommendations of contract awards according to
procurement methodology. The final decision on these five systems was never issued'
because of Serbia's political interests, which later led to the break-up of Yugoslavia.
2.16     The lesson to be learned is that it is better to sign a contract and solve any minor
problems, than to run through another decision circle, which can take two or three years.2
In fact, four Control Data Corporation bids for the OPS I, RTS I, RTS II, and DCN were
evaluated as the best bids, while the OPS II did not reach the required level. The best bid
for the OPS II was from Combustion Engineering, which also fulfilled all OPS I
requirements. There is no doubt that RTS and DCN should have been awarded to CDC
(e.g.: EMS project commissioned by the National Grid Co. in the U K) and OPS to CE.
The compatibility between RTS and OPS was not critical, because requirements were only
for non-real-time data transfer. At that time, few applications in the world with different
I/ The Bank does not agree with the comments at 2/ and 3/. The Borrower
agrees, at paras 2.15 and 2.17 above, that no final decision (on bid award
recommendation for the five systems) was taken by the Borrowers and forwarded
to the Bank. The problems were not, obviously, minor. How could a contract
be signed, in such a case, when no award recommendation had even been made?
The reasons for the Bank's advice to cancel the five bid invitations have been
given at paras 5.3.3-5.3.5, Part I. No further comments on para 2.16 are
being offered by the Bank, as the results of bid analysis (para 2.15) were
never sent to the Bank.
2/ See footnote 1/.



-31-
hardware for real-time and planning system existed. Not contracting the RTS and DCN,
according to Bank advice, was the greatest mistake of the whole Project.3
2.17     The EMS Coordination Committee decided to cancel tenders and to redefine the
EMS Project on March 15, 1990. The RTS, OPS, and DCN were merged into a new RTCS
sub-system and new bidding documentation was drawn up. The RTCS was split at the initial
zero phase and the main RTCS first phase. The bidding procedure for RTCSO was
successfully completed and the contract signed in June 1991.
2.18     The utmost efforts to prepare RTCS1 bidding documentation were made. The
documentation was completed and sent to the IBRD in 1991; however, because of the
disintegration of Yugoslavia, the documents were not approved.
2.19     The lesson to be learned is that splitting the RTCS and the zero and first phases
caused procedure duplication.4 The Borrower's manpower was shared; it would be much
better to focus all efforts on one complete tender. If the contract for the entire RTCS had
been signed before the disintegration of Yugoslavia, the RTCS system in Slovenia would
have been successfully completed.
F. Activities Analysis up to 1991
2.20     The above-mentioned period caused enormous delays in documentation design,
post-evaluation procedures, and decision making. These are some of the major reasons for
the EMS project delays:
(a) EMS project execution was arranged to be carried out by the Coordination
Committee of the eight Borrowers. The Coordination Committee has been
unable to ensure efficient and current project execution;
(b) The organizational structures of the EMS project teams in RAPs were
different, with varying numbers of members, disparate knowledge and
unequal competence;
3/  See footnote 1/.
4/ The idea of splitting the RTCS into two phases was put forward at the
tripartite meeting held in Washington, D.C. in February 1990 (paras 5.3.5 and
5.3.8, Part I) by the Borrowers, and their Engineering Consultant, and it was
accepted by the Bank. The Borrowers should have deployed the necessary
manpower to avoid delays on their side.



-32-
(c) The Borrowers did not have opportunities of communicating with the
creditor;5
(d) At an early stage the majority of people trained for the EMS project
management left the project;
(e) There were problems with project unification and reconciliation;
(f) New technology and a new type of equipment were incorporated into the
conservative enterprise;
(g) Domestic consultants' expertise was insufficient for such a technologically
complex EMS project;
(h) Bidding and evaluation procedures were carried out almost without
difficulties up to the point when particular Republics' interests were
expressed during the process of evaluating the best bid;
(i) Bank procedure for the approval of the Tender documents and evaluation
findings approval was overly long;6
(j) There was a lack of domestic investment funds, because of an inefficient
power tariff pricing system - insufficient support from the government; and
(k) A high inflation rate made use of any normal planning and investment
project management methodology impossible.
5/ Leagning from the experiences under the First and Second Power
Transmission Projects - which also involved several Power Enterprises as
separate Borrowers - special arrangements for more efficient communications
between the Borrowers and the Bank were made for the Third Power Transmission
Project, with JUGEL as the main coordinator. This did not rule out
communications between the Borrowers and the Bank and they did take place
during project supervision. It would not have been possible to consider
implementation of this complex project without a single coordinating agency,
such as JUGEL, in Yugoslavia.
6/ This comment is not accepted. For the five main project components, bid
evaluation in Yugoslavia was never completed. The question of delays due to
Bank procedures, therefore, did not arise on these five major contracts. For
the other minor tenders, which were evaluated and cleared by the Bank
according to Bank procedures, some difficulties arose due to non-adherence to
Bank procurement guidelines.



-33-
G. Implementation Progress after June 1991
2.21     The changes that followed the independence of Slovenia in June 1991 had a
certain impact on the conceptual and technical requirements of the Energy Management
System of the Slovene Electric Power System, and especially on the financial and legal status
of the project.
2.22     In October 1992, Elektro-Slovenia took over the Project from the Slovene Electric
Power Economy with all obligations and competence related to investment accomplishment,
current obligations concerning contracts, and obligations concerning the IBRD loan.
2.23     Up to December 31, 1991, the loan was disbursed through JUGEL; after that date
the EGS-ELES disbursed the loan directly via an LBS New York special account which made
disbursements current and accurate.
2.24     In 1993, the project was re-activated and the Bank approved current disbursement
for the completion of LI, RTU and the Electric Power Telephone Exchange.
G. Activities Analysis after 1991
2.25     After Slovenia became independent, all important state functions had to be re-
established, including the reorganization of the electric power sector, and it took some time
to become accustomed to new conditions. From the time the ELES was founded to October
1992, when the ELES took over the EMS project, project implementation ran at a slower
rate, but work on contracts that had already been signed was accomplished. While contracts
for the RTCS1 and TCS remained unsigned the undisbursed amount of the loan, to our
regret, could not be used.
2.26     During the period of investment, implementation cooperation with the World
Bank raly smoothly. Among other things, the Bank helped us in solving the problem with
war damage connected with Local Interface contracted with Unioninvest Sarajevo. All
problems were solved and questions answered in direct contact over the telephone or through
facsimile and mail, which had the effect of aiding rapid performance of the job.



-34-
H. Conclusion
2.27      Today the EMS project in Slovenia includes data acquisition in power facilities,
part of the system control support and all ancillary equipment, including RCC building;
however, the principal portions of the project - Real Time Control System Phase 1 and
Telecommunication System - are missing.
2.28      Appraisement of the implementation of the project as a whole, from our point of
view, is negative. However, some positive achievements must be stressed. The Investors'
team members, who have been working on the project for some time, and also domestic
consultants, have gained much valuable knowledge and experience in designing feasibility
studies, investment programs, tender documentation, bidding procedures, evaluation
procedures, and processes in connection with foreign credit arrangements for large
investment projects.
2.29      In our opinion, the new technology has successfully been transferred in all
completed sub-projects.
2.30      In order to assure continuation of the investment, the ELES has made the decision
to apply for a new loan or to renew the existing loan with one of the international banks.
The ELES is particularly interested in applying for a loan with the current creditors of the
project. The Feasibility Study has been drawn up for the purpose of facilitating the
acceptance of a satisfactory conclusion as to the provision or renewal, respectively, of loans
from the international financial institutions.
I. Remarks on PCR Part I
2.31      General. JUGEL's power in connection with decision-making was actually much
higher than was described in PCR Part I.
2.32      Point 3.1. The electricity tariffs were under the Federal and RAP's Governments
control and the EGS as a power utility had minimal impact on price rises.
2.33      The EGS accepted as a general policy the economic optimization of the
investment in the entire power sector and invested in power plants in Bosnia.
2.34      Point 5.3.10. The new RTCS bidding documentation was completed and sent to
the IBRD in 1991; however, because of the break-up of Yugoslavia, the documents were not
approved.



-35-
2.35     Invitations for tender for the TCS were published in 1990, the Technical
Evaluation was completed in 1991, and the results were sent to the IBRD. Bank clearance
was not forthcoming for the same reason as in the case of the RTCS.
I. Remarks on PCR Part III
2.36     There should be additional tables7 with data on:
(a) Approved and disbursed amounts according to categories from Schedule 1 of
the Loan Agreement for all Borrowers;
(b) All disbursements for JDC and Borrower's shares; and
(c) Planned and actually repaid amounts for all Borrowers.
7/ For (a): a table - No. 5 - on approved/final loan disbursements, by
Borrower and Category, has been added in Part III. For (b) & (c), it is not
feasible at this stage to obtain information from all the Borrowers/JUGEL.



-36-
Table 1
PART III
FSFR YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2338-YU)
A. Proiect Time Table
Planned and Actual Dates of Proiect Time Table
ITEM                  PLANNED DATE          ACTUAL DATE
First Presentation to Bank                                 1971
First Presentation Review Mission   1980                   1980
Start of Appraisal                    11/03/1981           11/03/1981
Completion of Negotiations            03/31/1983           03/31/1983
Board Approval                        05/23/1983           07/26/1983
Effectiveness                         November 1983        01/14/1985
Project Completion                    12/31/1988           NOT COMPLETED
Loan Closing Date                     03/31/1989           extended to
12/31/1993



-37-
Table 2
PART III
FSFR YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2338 - YU)
Use of Bank Resources
STAGE OF       YEAR     NO. OF        NO. OF      SPECIALIZATION    RATING
PROJECT CYCLE              PERSONS    STAFFWEEKS       REPRESENTED      STATUS
Preparation       FY82        3           26.0       ECO, LOF, FNA
Preparation/      FY83        4           12.6       LOF, FNA, EGR
Preappraisal
Appraisal         FY83        7           42.0       EGR, ECO, FNA,
REA
Negotiation       FY83        2            8.4       ECO, FNA
Negotiation       FY83        2            1.2       ECO, FNA
Supervision
1          FY83        1            0.4       EGR.
2          FY84         5           20.9      EGR., ECO,
FNA, OPA
3          FY85        3           16.2       ECO, FNA, OPA    3
4          FY86        6           36.4       EGR, ECO, FNA    3
5          FY87        13          26.9       EGR, ECO, FNA,   3
OPA
6          FY88        15          49.1       EGR, ECO, FNA,   3
PA, OPA
7          FY89        11          45.8       EGR, ECO, FNA,   3
OPA
8          FY90        11          61.5       EGR, ECO, FNA,   3
OPA, PA
9          FY91        15          47.3       EGR, ECO, FNA,   3
OPA, PA
i         FY92         5           13.1      EGR, ECO           3
11         FY93         1           1.3       EGR                4
12         FY94         1           4.2       EGR
Project           FY94        2            6.5       EGR, FNA
Completion
Report
EGR - Engineer
ECO - Economist
FNA - Financial Analyst
LOF - Loan Officer
OPA - Operations Assistant
PA  - Procurement Advisor
REA - Research Assistant



-38-
Table 3
PART III
FSFR YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2338-YU)
C. Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
DATE                             ESTIMATED                ACTUAL
12/31/1983                           _
06/30/1984                            3.7                      NA
12V31/1984                            8.5                      NA
06/30/1985                           17.3                         1.50
12/31/1985                          29.3                          .50
06/30/1986                           42.9                         .54
12/31/1986                           57.3                         .58
06/30/1987                           71.5                         .62
12/31/1987                           83.5                         .56
06/30/1988                           94.9                         .61
12/31/1988                          105.7                         .49
06/30/1989                          115.0                         .60
12/31/1989                          120.0                        2.96
06/30/1990                           _                           5.20
1231/1990                          -                            6.31
06/30/1991                           _                           4.98
) 12/31/1991                                                       8.40
06/30/1992                           _                           2.47
12/31/1992                                                       3.63
06/30/1993                           _                           1.00
12/31/1993                          -
03/31/1994                           _                             .83
Total Disbursed                        _                          41.78
Total Amount Cancelled6                                                   79.22
Includes  $4.98 million cancelled  after signing but before effectiveness.



-39-                                                           Table 4
PART III
FSFR YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2338-YU)
D. Imolementation Schedule'
CONTRACT                         TENDER RELEASE                       CONTRACT SIGNING                       CONTRACT
COMPLEnON
No2                                PLANNED             ACTUAL              PLANNED            ACTUAL            PLANNED    ACTUAL
1. Microwave System (TCS)          Jan. 31.1983        -                  Oct. 31. 1983       -                 Dec. 31.1986      -
2. Data Communication
Network (DCN)                   Mar. 31, 1983       June 20. 1983      July 31. 1984       -                 April 20. 1987    -
3. Operation Planning
System - Phase I (OPS-.)        Miy 31, 1983        October. 1987      Jan. 31. 1984       -                 April 30, 1985    -
4. Operation Planning
System - Phase r 
(OPS - I)                       June 15, 1983       October, 1987      Feb. 28. 1984       _                 Nov. 30, 1985     -
5. JUGEL DC BUILDING'              June 30, 1983                          Jan. 1. 1984                          Dec. 31, 1984      -
6. Remote Terminal
Units (RTUs)                    July 31, 1983       June 20. 1988      June 30. 1984        _                June 30. 1987     -
7. Real Time Control
System - Pbhc I (RTCS-I)        July 31, 1983       June 20, 1988      SepL 31, 1984                         June 30, 1984
8. Real Time Control
System (RTCS - 11)              SepL 30, 1983       June 20. 1988      OcL 31. 1984        _                 OcL 31. 1987       _-
9. Diesel Engines                  Sept 30, 1983       June 20, 1988       April 15. 1984     1990              Feb. 15. 1985
10. Locad Interfaces (LTs)         Oct 15. 1983        June 27. 1988      April 30. 1981      1990              Dec. 31. 1988
11. Unintcrruptible
Power Supplies                  Oct 31. 1983        June 20. 1988      Feb. 28. 1984       1989              Feb. 28. 1985
12. DC Telecommunication
Equipment                      Nov. 30, 1983       October. 1987       Mar. 31. 1984      July 25. 1988     Mar. 31. 1985
13. Building Facilities'           Dec. 31. 1983       June 20. 1988      Jan. 1, 1984        Mar. 6, 1989      Dec. 31. 1984
1/    13 Contracts listed in Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement.
2/    In the order of planned dates of release of Tender Documents; planned
start of implementation Jan. 31, 1983; planned completion Oct. 31, 1987.
3/    Constructed by Serbian Power Enterprise - not financed by Loan 2338-YU;
Materials under item 13.
4/    Completed but exact dates are not available.
(Please note: All asteriks(*) are part of footnote 4)
5/    Airconditioning; Firefigthing equipment, building materials etc.



PART [I
FSFR YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2338-YU)
E. Loan Disbursed by Categories
Cat.     Description       2338-0        2338-1        2338-2    |M2338-3    |   2338-4   |    2338-5    |   2338-6   |   2338-7              Total
I. ....L.... I ________________ I (Bosnia)  (FSFR)    (Croatia)   (Macedonia)    (Slovenia)      (FSFR)         (FSFR)        (FSFR)       Disbursed
I.a   Materials & Equip.  4,018,666.57   1,365,300.18   1,512,599.98   2,624,816.44   6,139,558.58   7,080,021.16    1,822,305.86   2,146,694.81   26,709,963.58
I.b  JDC Ponlion             -             -             -             -             -              -              -             -
l.c   Consultants         227,826.40    121,333.04   254,694.48     135,900.84   197,338.91     302,794.61     179,940.47    88,177.70    1,508,056.45
I.d   Loan Charges      1,725,398.56    501,635.73    1,097,691.43    841,553.81    1,258,996.08   2,036,113.00  599,527.82  706,585.82    8,767,502.25
I.e   Front End Fee       53,865.00     26,185.00     47,132.00      29,925.00     40,339.00     59,102.00     21,297.00     21,347.00     299,252.00
I.f   Special Account*/   1,501,117.89    495,025.98       0.00          0.00      1,120.41    1,500,000.00   500,372.63     500,372.63    4,498,009.54
Unallocated
Total Disbursed   7,526.874.42   2,509,479.93   2,912,117.89   3,632,196.09   7,637,462.98   10,978,030.77   3,123,443.78   3,463,177.96   41,782,783.82
Owed lo
World Bank
by Borrower      1,501,117.89    495,025.98         0.00          0.00       1,120.41    1,500,000.00  500,372.63    500,372.63    4,498,009.54
(Fax dated
07/14/94)                                                                                                             ll1
3
(F;xdated _________ - __________ - _________ - _________ - _________ - __________ - _________ - __________ - ___________~P
rvi
0






U11
:7)
I-4
I -
-V
,          l  I  z
-1                 -14'
Xz:                (1 ~>,
- 4                     E-d 



