Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
LAJ. 23B£- >(J)
Rep,t No. P-3626-YU
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TIE
IVTERAIIONAL BA1K FOR RECONSTWCTION AND DEVELOPMT
TO THE
MEECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$1.0 MILLION
EIGHT YUGOSLAV POWER ENTERPRISES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPIUBIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
TH1D POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT -
ENERGY           SYSTEM
July 5, 1983
doc oc   heis a  usti dlstdlu ad ma be .d by re|dwut onl IN Me Pefomm of
t    Udul doom lb com|ba    ma ethrwwse be disdliwd i WwM Bk adhwimttm. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency- Unit 1/        Calendar- 1982 2/   June 15. 1983 31
US$1                    Dinar 51.32        Dinar 86.82
Diner 1                 US$0.019            US$0.012
Dinar 1,000,000         US$19,485.58       US$11,518.08
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL       Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL       Composite Organization of Associated Labor
COI        Community of Interest
DACS       Data Acquisition and Control System
EIB        European Investment Bank
EMS        Energy Management System
FCEI       Federal Committee for Energy and Industry
FDC        Federal Dispatch Center
JUGEL      Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Ind%istry
LDR        Less Developed Regions
LRMC       Long  tun Marginal Cost
hDR        More Developed Regions
OPS        Operation Planning System
RCP        Republican Comuunity for Prices
RDC        Republican Dispatch Center
RTCS       Real Time Control System
SDK        Social Accounting Service
WOAL       Work Organization of Associated Labor
kV         Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
Kw         Megawatt (1,000 kilowatt)
tpy        tons per year
toe        tons of oil equivalent
TWh        terawatt hour (109 kilowatt hours)
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins
since July 12, 1973. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure
maintenance of external competitiveness.
2/ Period average.
31 End of period.



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
TIIRD- POILR TRANSMISSION PROJECT- ENERGY MM4AGEMENT SYSTEM
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowers:                   Eight electric power organizations in the
Socialist kepublics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Croatia, hacedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and
Slovenia and the Socialist Autonomous Provinces
of Kosovo and Vojvodina.  The Union of Yugoslav
Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) would sign the
Loan Agreement as coordinator for the planning,
engineering, -procurement, supervision of
construction and technical assistance, and as
agent for disbursement and repayment of the
loan. The loan would be distributed among the
eight Borrowers in proportion to the estimated
cost of the project within their respective
Republics/Provinces.
Guarantor:                   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount;                      $120 million, including interest during
construction and capitalized front end fee.
Terms:                       Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year
grace period, with interest at standard variable
interest rate.
Project Objectives and
Description:                The project is the first of a two stage program
to install a national electric power management
syztem (EKS) which consists of a computerized
system to allow for the remote supervision of
the interconnected power system at the national
aud regional levels and permit the coordination
of appropriate actioxis at all times. The
program would provide the flexibility which
would allow the operation of generation and
transmission facilities closer to their techni-
cal limits while at the same time optimizing
system production cost ana maximizing system
reliability. It should gradually lead to a
reduction and/or postponement in investments for
future generating plants and transmission.
|TIIE document his3 a retrcted dinribution and may be usd by recipients only in th erfrac 
of their of Eciol dutiesL Its contents may not othenrwac be disclsed without World Bank authorization-



- ii -
- - ~(Us$ mnillion)- -------
Estimated Cost 1/                     Local             Foreign            Total
1. Supervisory ana Control
System                           76.8                80.6            157.4
II. Telecommunications System         10.9                27.9              38.8
I1l. Project Services
- Training                        0.6                 2.4              3.0
- Engineering                     2.6                 3.0              5.6
- Owners expenses                 5.6                 1.6               7.2
base Cost
(January 1983 prices)        96.5                115.5            212.0
1V. Contingencies
- Physical Contingencies          5.0                 5.7             10.7
- Price Contingencies            35.5                34.8             70.3
lotal Project Cost               137.0               156.0            293.0
V. Interest During Construction 2/  -                     28.0             28.0
Total Financing Required        137.0               184.0            321.0
Financing Plan
Sources of Funds                           US$ million            Percent
lnternal kescurces                              86.0                 27
IbkD                                           120.0                 37
LIB                                             64.0                 20
Foreign/Local Bank Loans                        5].0                 16
321.0                100
1/  Includes iaentifiable import duties and taxes estimated at the equivalent
of US$30.30 million.
2/ Includes front-end fee of $0.3 million



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements (including front-end fee)
_ -   - -  US$ Million
Bank E-iscal Year    1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990
Annual                3.7      13.6      25.6     28.6      23.4      20.1       5.0
Cumulative            3.7      17.3     42.9      71.5      94.9    115.0    120.0
kate of Return:                16.0Z
Benefits ann Risks:            Through modern dispatch facilities the project
would provide the facilities needed to improve
the efficiency by which the entire Yugoslav
power transmission system is operated, and
therefore the justification for it hinges
largely on the savings it would provide. Due to
the high technology state-of-the-art nature of
the project, there are risks associated withl the
fact that this technology is continuously
evolving and changing rapidly. Staff involved
in project implementation may therefore lack
certain necessary skills at key dates. However,
the participation of qualified consultants and
the carefully scheduled training program tied to
each supply contract should minimize this risk.
Even though the borrowers have entered into
binding agreements in order to use efficiently
the EMS, the risk exists nevertheless, that
joint operation could be hampered by differences
of opinion on how to implement the EMS. There
is, rurthermore, the risk that local finances
might not be provided to the Borrowers in a
timely fashion. The Bank will therefore closely
monitor the assurances given to the Bank by the
Borrowers and other authorities involved in the
project.
Appraisal Report:              YUGOSLAVIA: Third Power Transmission Project
(Report No. 4193-YU), dated April 29, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMME?DATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO EIGHI YUGOSLAV ELECTRIC POWER ORGANIZATIONS
WIIH ThE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YU70SLAVIA
FOR A THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT - ENERGY MANAGEMENI SYSTEM
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to eight power organizations in the Socialist Republics of Bosnia -
Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia as well as
the Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina, with the guarantee of the
Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of $120 million
(including interest during construction) to belp finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of a third power transmission project - energy
management system. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including tbree
years of grace, witb interest at the standard variable interest rate. In
addition to the Bank and the eight borrowers, the loan agreement would be
signed by the agency coordinating the ;-rojec: execution, the federal Union
of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL), wbo would also act as the
channel for disbursement and repayment of the loan. The European
Investment Bank (EIB) is co-financing the project with a loan in the
equivalent amount of about $64 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1l/
2.       An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report
Y-*loslavia:  Adjustment Policies an. Development Perspectives (3954-YU) was
dLstributed to the Executive Directors on Novc-tber 2, 1982. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
A. Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85X of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector predominantly consists of peasant
farms and small enterprises.  Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of vorkers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. Responsibility for
important social and economic eecisions has increasingly shifted from the
federal level to t'se republics, autonomous provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives over production decisions
bas been increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into
legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) wbich
are the smallest units producing a marketable output.
1/ Part I of this report is identical to Part I of the President's Report
for the Sixtb Railway Project (Report No. P-3622-YU of June 29, 1983)



- 2 -
4.       In aadition to this strengtbening of workers' participat-on at the
microeconomic level, the concept of w--kers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called social
compacts and selt-management agreements, enable the participation of all
economic agents in the tormulation of macroeconomic policy, while
maintaining aecentralized responFibility for policy implementation.  These
instruments are used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal
policy measures, particularly ini the areas of prices, incomes, and
employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitu*ion also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designea to reconcile decentralized decision-making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan form:!lation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including
government bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into
medium-term agreements on supply, demana and investment intentions. In
case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at
the relevant level are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary
basis.
B. Economic Trenas and Development Issues
6.       The economic developsent ot Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate
ot about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US$2,790 at 1981
market prices. 1/ The past three decades have also witnessed the growing
integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981
merchanaise exports and imports grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real
terms, respectively. However, Yugoslavia's export performance to the
industrial ;.ar-ktL economies has showed increasing weakness over the past
aecade, particularly since 1973.
7.       hhile overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia ana Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita output, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, w-th one-third, are
otticially aesignated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference in
per capita output between the most developed region in the country,
blovenia, and the least aeveloped, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. These disparities
reflect several factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity
agriculture in the LDR, their higher dependency ratios and their higher
population growth rates, which averaged 1.2% annually during 1971-81.
1/  According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
bince 1965 corcessionary investment credits have been granted to the LDR
through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed kegions. In addition, the Federal budget provides supplementary
resources for social sector expenditures in the LDR. Together, these
resources account for about 102 of the social product of the LDR.
8.       Since 1954, employment in the modern social sector has increased
by around 4X per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditionial (predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These
ditterentials have resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
there were about 1.1 million external migrants. Since 1973, however, this
trend has been reversed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure
on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have
risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1982. 1/ The incidence
of unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged
from 29% in Kosovo to 2% in Slovenia.
C. Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive record of economic and social development
since Worla War II, Yugoslavia today faces pe-;haps its most difficult
economic situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic
liberalization in 1965. In many respects the difficulties facing
Yugoslavia are similar to those facing most middle income developing
countries; higher oil prices and interest rates, sluggish world trade and
more ditficult access to international commercial bank credit. The
severity of Yugoslavia's economic problems, however, also reflects
structural deficiencies in the pattern of Yugoslav development which became
increasingly apparent in the seventies. In response the Government has
introauced a series of stabilization measures since 1980. The main
elements of the stabilization program introduced thus far have been
restrictive monetary and fiscal pulicies to curb investment and reduce
intlationary pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate policies to
encourage exports.  At the same time, imports have been scaled back in line
with the revenues accruing from export earnings and more limited foreign
borrowing. Yugoslavia's stabilization efforts are being supported by the
IMF in the form a three-year SDR 1,662 million standby arrangement in
eftect since January 1981.
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in oTher countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about
9% in 1982.



-4-
10.      As a result of its stabilization program, Yugoslavia succeeded in
reaucing its current account deficit from $3.7 billion in 1979 to $0.9
billion in 1961. Underlying this improvement was a strong surge in
merchandise exports which increased in volume by 11% in 190J and 8% in
1981. At the same time, merchandise import volumes were reduced by 14% in
1980 and 12% in 1981. In 1982, however, exports increased by less then one
percent in value over the previous year, indicating negative real growth.
Pertormance of invisibles in 1982 was also below expectations. The
Yugoslov authorities responded by devaluing the dinar (by 49% against the
dollar during 1982) and by further cuts in imports (the value of
merchandise imports in 1962 declined by 8.2%). As a result of these
efforts the current account deficit was further reduced, to an estimated
$0.5 billion in 1982. While every effort is being made to isolate
important domestic proo-cers (and exporters in particular) from the effects
of the import restrictions, the import squeeze is continuing to cause
difficulties for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2%. In both 1980 and 1981 GDP growth is estimated at 2.2%.
The latest available estimates indicate that GDP growth declined by 1% in
1982. This reductio.n in growth is partly a result of the stabilization
measures, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and
manufacturing output has been particularly affected. There have been
marked fluctuations in agricultural output mainly due to climatic factors.
After stagnating in 1980 and 1981, agricultural output increased by 5% in
1982. .Fixed investment has also fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at an average rate of 9.5% between 1975
and 1979, it declined by 6.0% per year in 1979-82. Despite these slowdowns
in investment and economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably
successful in maintaining a fast pace of job creation in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.2% in 1980, 2.9% in 1981
and 2.3% in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growtb has been fastest
in the LDR where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
12.      One of the major aims of the stabilization program has been to
reduce the rate of inflation, which increased from 13% in 1978 to 22% in
1979. however, despite significant declines in investment and real
domestic demand, inflationary pressures have continued. In 1980 and 1981
inflation accelerated to 30% and 38% resnectively. In an effort to bring
inflation under control, the authorities introduced temporary price
ceilings on a wide range of goods on July 31, 1982. This policy met with
only limited success, however, and inflation during 1982 was 322. The
persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. The
efforts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural
production and rationalize energy use have all put upward pressure on the
price level. The increase in international prices since 1979 and the
cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of the dinar
considerably increased domestic production coszs. Nominal personal income



-5-
growth has also proved difficult to control.  The Government's intention is
to reduce the rate of inflation to 20% during 1983. Given the likely
inflationary eftects of the depreciation of the dinar and mounting pressure
from workers to reverse the decline in re;l wages (which have fallen by 17%
in real terms since 1979), any reduction in the inflation rate below the
1982 level should be considered a significant achievement.
13.      Yugoslavia's adjustmert efforts have been complicated by adverse
aevelopments in the international capital markets. Increases in
international interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from
$0.8 billion in 1979 to an estimated $1.9 billion in 1982. Principal
repayments on medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $1.9 billion in
1982.  1-liile there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's
adjustment efforts, the commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious
position toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to
adverse developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity
problems experienced by some Yugoslav banks.
?ecium Term Prospects
14.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on economic growth, particularly
the constraints on external borrowing, the plan is being significantly
revised. The main goal of economic policy is to put the balance of
payments on a secure footing and to ensure stable and sustained growth
during the 1986-90 plan period. For the next few years, however, the
authorities expect to see continued slow grow*h in social product and even
slower growth in domestic expenditure to allow resources to be released for
exports, with the aim of achieving a current account surplus before the end
of the plan period. This strategy also implies continued reductions in the
rate ot fixed capital tormation.  Within the reduced investment program,
the priorities -ressed are export promotion, the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
Nonproductive investment is to be cut back sharply.
15.      Since slower growth will make it more difficult for the social
sector to generate additional employment at the pace of the past, emphasis
is being laid on the development of labor intensive activities, including
small-scale enterprises and the increased use of shift work. Finally, the
reduction of regional disparities remains a major objective of Yugoslavia's
economic planning. Financial transfers between regions will play an
important role in this process, with particular stress on encouraging
social sector enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make
direct investments in the LDR. The initial experience with such joint
ventures is encouraging and a substantial number of such projects have been
launched. They could make a significant contribution to the overall
.efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the transfer of
technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.



-6-
Creditworthiness
16.      Commercial fimancial credits to Yugoslavia have declined
signiticantly and most recent credits have been organized on a bilateral
intergovernmental basis. Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows
declined from $4.2 billion in 1980 to an estimated $2.0 billion in 1982.
Total medium- ana long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated
at about $16.3 billion at the end of 1982 while short-term debt at the end
ot December 1982 stood at about $1.8 billion. While Yugoslavia was able to
increase its short-term borrowing by about $1 billion during the 1979-81
perina, it was unable to roll all of this debt over during 1982 and
outstaading short-term debt declined by approximately $500 million over the
course o3f the year. During 1982 there was a substantial decline in foreign
exchange reserves which at the end of that year amounted to $1.7 billion,
or roughly one month of imports of goods and services.
17.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in past
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances, the debt
service ratio averaged 16% between 1976 and 1981, while the debt service
ratio in convertible currencies averaged 19% over the same period. In 1982
the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22 percent reflecting
the increase in interest payments on floating rate debts and the decline in
the value ot exports. Similarly the estimated debt service ratio on
convertible currency debts rose to 27 percent. A major effort, involving
some OECD countries, international commercial banks and the IMF, has been
initiated to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining an orderly debt repayment.
Agreement has now been reached in principle on a total foreign assistance
package amounting to approximately $6 billion. Although Yugoslavia's
liquicity situation may remain difficult in the near term, the aggregate
debt service ratio is expected to decline somewhat over the next few
years. Given ic's past debt service record, pragmatism, and demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called
for, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank
lending.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.      The proposed project would be the 82nd operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $4,004.4 million. 2/ Of this, approximately 35X
($1,358.4 million) has been for 24 operations in the transportation
sector-- 12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas
pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically,
Bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to
the transportation loans, five power loans, one telecommunications loan,
three water supply and sewerage and three multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector for which thlirteen
operations totalling $772 million (about 22% of the total) have been made.
Twenty-one loans amounting to $475 million (about 13X of the total) have
also been made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and the
first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976. In
addition, IFC has made fifteen investments in Yugoslavia totalling about
$302 million.
19.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981 largely due to a shortage of local funds arising from financial
constraints. Following an implementation review of the whole loan
portfolio with borrowers in the fall of 1981, performance has markedly
improved in 1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares
most favorably with Bank-wide averages and with most other countries of n
similar per capita income. Annex II contains a summary statement of Ban'c
loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the executioi
ot ongoing projects.
20.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) increase exporf- and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) increase the -ificiency of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
investment resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets;
and (iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Sixth Railway Project
(Report No. P-3622-YU) of June 29, 1983
2/ The 80th and 81st operations, namely Sixth Railway Project (110
million) (Report No. P-3622-YU of June 29, 1983) and Seventh Industrial
Creait ($70 million) (Report No. P-3624 of June 29, 1983), are scheduled
for consideration by the Executive Directors on July 19 and July 26,
respectively.



continues to be toward the aevelopment of the LDR. Underpinning this
orientation are economic surveys of the four LDR undertaken by the Bank,
intensified bank assistance in projec_ formulation, and ongoing economic
ana sector analysis.
21.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fullv in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in
the 1981-b5 Development Plan.   As a result, over the past five years,
almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through operations
for transportation, power, agricultural development and industrial credit.
In the next few years significant Bank lending to the LDR through similar
operations is expected to coutinue.
22.      Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5), the process
of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank has
therefore put increased emphasis on fostering coordination, particularly in
the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achievea. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount ot Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. The Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areps
where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination impact has
most potential.
23.      A persistent toreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources af _redit through co-financing
arrangements and through assisting in :he establishment of nev banking
relationships for Yugoslavia. The Sank, however, is the major source of
long-term external capital and is expected to remain so in the near
tuture. In its future lending to Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put
increasea emphasis on co-financing, recognizing, however, the commercial
market constraints that Yugoslavia is facing.
:14.     Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about
9.0 percent of its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is
expected to remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total aebt service was 5.4 percent in 1981 and is projected to be about
6 percent ;, 1986.
25.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then, IFC
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1983, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $327.5 million gross and $178.7 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment an a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in audition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the LDRs.



-9-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AN-D ELECTRIC PGOiER SUB-SECTOR
26.      Yugoslavia's current Five Year Plan (1981-85) places the bighest
priority on the development of the energy sector, and especially of the
electric power sub-sector. The plan places emphasis on the maximum
economic development of domestic natural resources (particularly coal) and
its integration in the development of the power sector, the provision of
secure long-term supplies of petroleum and natural gas and the optimization
of their use; and the improvement of the efficiency of energy utilization.
The Energy Sector
27.      Energy Resources. Yugoslavia has substantial primary energy
resources consisting of low grade coal, lignite deposits, hydro-power
potential, and some bydro-carbons. These resources are concentrated in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia, Kosovo and Vojvodina. Coal reserves
(approxima'ely 26 billion tons of proven reserves) are equivalent to about
300 years' supply at present consumption rates (about 57 million tons per
year, tpy). Because of its inferior quality, coal is used primarily in
generation of electricity. At pres-nt, nearly 652 of electricity generated
come from coal and lignite-fired power plants. Hydro-power potential is
estimated to be equal to 74 tera watt hour (TWb). The technically
exploitable potential is 64 TWh of..hich some 27 TWh has been developed.
28.      The geological reserves of crude oil are estimated at 298 million
tons, with proven recoverable reserves of about 70 million tons.
Geological reserves of natural gas are put at about 127 billion m3, with
proven reserves at 50 billion mi. Over the past two decades oil bas
taken a predominant role in Yugoslavia7s energy balance. It accounted for
only 12.7% of total energy consumed in 1960, but by 1982 its share bad
increasea to 31%. During the same period coal consumption fell from 74% to
36% of total energy used. This inc-ease in oil consumption had a serious
impact on Yugoslavia's balance of payments. The cost of oil imports rose
some thirty five times between 1970 and 1982, as imports increased from 5.2
million tons, costing $82 million, to about 11 million tons, costing about
$2.8 billion. During the same period gas consumption also grew rapidly,
trom 980 million m3 (0.9 million tons of oil equivalent (toe)) to 4,050
million m3 (3.5 million toe), as the gas pipeline system was developed
and imports from the USSR - the only source of gas imports - rose rapidly
to 1.9 million m3 (1.6 million toe). The share of gas in total energy
consumption, however remains relatively small, having grown from only 1.7%
in 1965 to 8.6% in 1982. Very little effort and resources have been
devotee to exploration, and to date, Yugoslavia suffers from the absence of
an overall plan for exploration which would ensure both coordination



- 10 -
between kepublics and Provinces 1/, and a more systematic approach to the
assessment of the country's geology. This shortcoming would be dealt with
unaer a Bank project for petroleum exploration presently being identified.
29.      Institutional Setting. In keeping with the overall
decentralization of economic management, the role of the Federal Gcvernment
in the planning and operation of the sector is limited. Its main
interventions in the sector are confined to formulate broad guidelines for
the energy policy of the country. The Federal Committee on Energy and
Industry (FCEI), a branch of the Federal Executive Council, which is in
charge of overall policy formulation and coordination, does not prepare
aetailed plans as to how such energy policy should be implemented. This is
left to the intiative of the regions and individual enterprises which
formulate ana implement development plans. The objective of the power
development plan at the level of the individual regions is to maintain a
balance of capacities and energy within each region, from1 plants which
miigat be located within the region or in another region, which are jointly
financed by more than one region. Such regional plans are consolidated by
the Jnion of Yugoslav Power Industry (JUGEL) to form the national power
aevelopment program.
30.      The organization of the Yugoslav pover subsector mirrors the
federal and decentralized political structure of the country and in its
present form has been in existence since 1974. The basic decision-making
units are BOALs. A power plant is typically operated by a single BOAL.
These units can be integrated into "'Work Organizations of Associated Labor`
(WdAL) through self-management agreements and may include units concerned
with power plants as well as tranz.mission systems, research and
developmenr. and other services. Distribution utilities are organized
separately but along similar lines. In most regions the WOAL have
organized themselves into "Composite Organizations of Associated Labor"
(COAL) which are at the top of the pyramidal organizational set-up for the
power subsector. All the existing WOALs and COALs are required by law to
be members of JUGEL. JUGEL's obligatory membership, therefore, consists of
the approximately 100 such organizations in the regions, including some
lignite mines engaged in the production of fuel for thermal power
stations. While JUGEL coordinates the major aspects of power generation
ana transmission in the country, it has no executive power over its
organizations. The regional power organizations and their customers form
the power subsector's "Communities of Interest" (COI), which are
responsible for determining long-term development programs and their
financing.
l/   From hereon the term "region" will be used to denote the terms
"kepublics" and "Autonomous Provinces".



- 11 -
31.      Each region has its own power industry, and each of these is
required by law to supply the power requirements of consumers within its
service area. In doing so, however, they do not operate completely
independently of each other, since they form part of an interconnected
system at the national level. According to the 1978 law by which it is
operating, JJUGEL's essential function is to coordinate the operation and
aevelopment of this Yugoslav interconnected power system "as a single
technologically integrated system of interest for the whole country."
Coordinated operation of the interconrected system is based on the
"Selt-hanagemcnt Agreement for Joint Operation", which provides for
dispatch management by dispatch centers in the regions, subject to
coordination by a federal dispatch center operated by JUGEL. From this
azispatch center, JUGEL presently controls frequency regulation,
international exchanges, and the integrity of the interconnected Yugoslav
power system. JUGEL's coorainating role in the development ot the power
system is based on the "Self-hanagement Agreement on the Coordination of
Development Plans". Under these two agreements, JUGEL has wide-ranging
responsibilities for the preparation of the annual generation program for
the interconnected system, the preparation of sho;t and long-term electric
power balances, harmonizing the development plans of the regions and
presenting the resulting programs ana plans to FCEI and the Federal Chamber
ot Economy.
32.      Since JUGEL has no executive authority over its member
organizations, it has to secure decisions through a complicated system of
voting or consensus. In the event of conflict between the least-cost
operation ot the interconnected power system, financial objectives and the
interest ot individual BOAL, the least-cost objective is supposed to
prevail. It there is a fundamental disagreement amongst the regions on the
tuture supply ot electricity, the arbitration department of JUGEL is
required to mediate. As an ultimate sanction, the Federal Executive
Council has reserve powers to ensure the technological integrity of the
Yugoslav power system should the self-management agreements required by law
not be concluded, or should JUGEL fail to ensure agreement.
33.      Consumption ot electricity has more than doubled during 1970-1980,
from 26.2 Thh to 59.3 TWh, representing an average annual rate of growth of
about b.b%. During the ten year period the real annual rate of growth of
GDP was about 5.7% resulting in an average elasticity of electricity
consumption to GiP ot about 1.5. The faster growth of electricity
consumption relative to GDP was largely brought about by the increased
consumption of the industrial sector. In 1980, industry continued to be
the largest consumer of electricity, accounting tor 55.6%, followed by
households (32.1%), transport (2.1%), agriculture (1-5%) and others
(8.7X). Total electricity consumption continues to be unevenly distributed
between regions: the three largest regions, Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia,
account tor about 60% of total electricity consumption.
34.      Generation.  Total installed generating capacity more than doubled
over 1970-1980, trom about 6,900 megawatts (MW) to about 14,100 MW.
Virtually all the increase occurred in the interconnected system accounting



- 12 -
tor 93Z of total installed capacity. Almost two-thirds of the additional
JUGLL capacity was thermal plant and only one third hydro. Over 70% of the
new thermal capacity uses indigenous solid fuel, most of it lignite-based.
The balance comprises oil-fired steam plants and combustion turbines. The
emphasis on lignite-fired plant was in accordance with the Government's
declared policy of restricting electricity generation to the use of
domestic energy resources; this resulted in an increase in the share of
lignite power plants in total thermal capacity from 54% to 65%. On the
other hand, the share of coal-fired plants declined from 29% to 12Z, thus
reducing the share of the capacitzy based on solid fuels from 83% to 77%.
There was a corresponding increase in the share of oil-fired generating
capacity from 12% to 18%. The increased dependence on imported fuels
resulted from the shertages of furds which delayed the completion of some
of the relatively large coal-based power plants.
35.      Transmission. Until the early 1960's, the basic transmission
network voltage was 110 kilovolt (kV). This was replaced by 220 kV, which
remained the main transmission voltage until 1975. Since then, the 380 kV
network has been evolving as the main system. At present, it connects most
of the main generating plants and load centers. The 380 kV system has
practically eliminated bottlenecks in transmission. In addition,
transmission losses were reduced from 5.4% of energy sent out in 1970 to
around 4% at present. An added benefit of the 380 kV network is that it
has permitted the Yugoslav system to start capturing some of the economies
of scale in generation, by the installation of larger units. It is
expectea that with the new agreements on the operations and planning of the
power subsector (para. 30), and with the completion of the proposed
project, even greater economies of scale will be achieved. Also, once the
380 kV network is fully developed and the dispatching facilities being
installea under the project become fully operational, the proportion of
reserve generating capacity is expected to be reduced.
36.      Future Growth. Despite the expected deceleration in the growth of
the economy projected for 1981-85 (see para. 14), electricity consumption
is forecast to increase at an average annual rate of about 7.3%; almost the
same annual rate of growth (7.9%) experienced during 1976-80. This
apparent insensitivity of electricity consumption to the projected drop in
the real growth of GDP is due to the fact that substantial demand for
electricity in the period 1976-80 has gone unsatisfied because of supply
constraints.
37.      Electricity Pricing. Prices for oil, imported gas and imported
coal are set by the Federal Community for Prices. Electricity tariffs and
the prices for aomestic coal and gas are set in each region by the COI and
then approved by the regional community for prices (RCP). The level and
structure of electricity tariffs are reviewed periodically by the COI in
each region and adjusted at least once a year to allow for increases in the
cost of operation and meet an agreed level of financing for power sector
aevelopment. In the unlikely event of agreement not being reached between
members of the COI, the RCP would arbitrate, and if agreement still could



- 13 -
not be reacned, the kCP's recommendations would be forwarded to the
regional Chamber of Economy tor a decision. As can be seen, the decision
on tarift ana investment financing policy are thus, in effect, largely
outside the control of the power enterprises.
36.      While the structure of electricity tariffs in Yugoslavia
corresnonds fairly closely to the structure dictated by the economic
pricin6, of electricity, the level or tariffs is substantially below the
averaje long run marginal cost (LRhC) of supply.  Delays in tariff action
to cover the growing costs of inputs have eroded the internal cash
generation ot some of the enterprises. This matter is dealt with more
iully in paras. 55-57 below.
39.      Planning. Due tc the decentralized nature of Yugoslavia, including
its power sub-sector, the development of this sub-sector is based on
prorarms which are optim.ized at the level ot each region rather than for
Yugoslavia as a whole. The least cost development program for all of
Yugoslavia is the product of harmonization of the regional plans, but there
is no assurance that this plan represents the least cost from a national
point ot view. A national least cost study to serve as a basis for guiding
the regiors in their process of plan harmonization, and to provide the
planners with a reaaily available measure of the cost of deviating from an
optimal national plan, was undertaken under the First Transmission Project
(Loan 836-YU). however, inter-regional consensus could not be reached.
Also, implementation ot a strict national least cost plan that would
override regional sovereignty and priorities would require a drastic change
in the political and institutional setting of Yugoslavia. However, revised
selt-management agreements covering the operation and planning in the power
sub-sector (para. 30) are designed to overcome the difficulties that the
institutional setting of tne sector poses in operating the eight power
systems as a single fully integrated power system. The self-management
agreement covering the operations of the Yugoslav interconnected system
together with the proposed project will permit meeting the demand for
electricity throughout Yugoslavia at the least short run cost to the
economy. It would allow the federal aispatch system to optimize across
regions by overriding local dispatching. The self-management agreement on
planning will permit formulation of the development plan in each region
after taking into consideration the cost of importing the energy from the
intercornnected system as an alternative to generation in the region. Such
an arrangement shoula prevent investment in facilities which could
otherwise be purchased at a lower cost from another region. These
agreements represent a major step towards achieving the Bank's original
objectives of ensuring that the operation of Yugoslavia's power system is
etticient from both the technical and economic points of view. Although
they are not a complete substitute for a properly formulated overall least
cost development plan, they represent an acceptable alternative in the
political and institutional setting of Yugoslavia. In addition, the
borrowers under the project have agreed to an annual exchange of views with
the bank before the investment program of the power sector as a whole for
the next year is tinalized; they also agreed that such investment program



- 14 -
must be guided by the principle ot achieving economic optimization of
investment choices (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06). The borrowers agreed,
as a condition of effectiveness, to secure all appropriate agreements,
approvals, consents or decisions from the respective regions and other
relevant organizations to comply with these provisions (Loan Agreement,
Recital C of Preamble, Section 7.01(b)).
Previous Bank Participation in the Power Sub-Sector and Objectives
40.      The Bank's main objective in lending for the power sub-sector has
been to assist its integration through the development of a national 380 kV
transmission grid to overcome the hitherto limited inter-regional bulk
power transter capability. Two loans of $75 million (Ln. 836-YU) and $80
million (Ln. 1469-YU) (Transmission I and II) were aimed at furthering this
consolidation of the power sub-sector through integrated operation and
coordinatea planning as a consequence of establishing a national
transmission grid. Another loan (1561-YU) finances a project involving a
cascade of three dams and power plants on the Neretva river in
bosnia-Herzegovina, as well as power lines and substations to connect to
existing transmission facilities. The portion of the project financed by
the Bank was successfully completed in early 1982 and a supplementary loan
to help finance the construction of a remaining dam and power house has
been submitted tor consideration by the Executive Directors. Although the
First Power Iransmission Project was two years late in completion, it has
now been completed in accordance with sound engineering practice. In the
process, a great deal of basic standardization of equipment and practices
has been achieved, and a great deal of technical expertise has been gained
in 380 kV planning and construction. Experience gained under the First
proved usetul in implementing the Second Power Transmission Project,
currently scheduled for completion in late 1983. However, the Bank was
only partly successful in its institution-building efforts. While JUGEL
has coordinated power operations fairly well, mainly through the
transmission projects, the earlier objectives of completely centralized
planning and control of the power sub-sector were difficult to achieve
fully in the decentralized Yugoslav system. Major further changes, in the
direction of greater coordination, are likely to come only with the fully
integrated operation of the 380 kV system and the establishment of a load
aispatch system on a federal basis uncer the proposed project.
PART IV - ThE PROJECT
Project Origin
41.      The proposed project was originally expected to represent the last
phase of a three-part program to build an integrated 380-kV power
transmission system covering the whole of Yugoslavia and interconnections
to neighboring countries. The entire program was first reviewed in 1971
during the appraisal of the First Power Transmission Project (Loan
836-YU). Subsequently, a load dispatch component was included as part of



- 15 -
the becond Power Transmission Project (Loan 1469-YU). No Bank financing
tor this component was provided. However, since this component was still
in a very preliminary stage of preparation and the cost estimate was based
on technology ot the late 1960s, the loan agreement for the second project
specified that stuaies were to be carried out as part of the project to
prepare the details for the load dispatch tacility. It was then
anticipated that the cost of the dispatch facility was of a magnitude which
would not require Bank financing since co-financing through commercial and
suppliers' credits could be sought in time for completion of this component
by 1983. However, the detailed studies carried out for this component as
part of the sacond project and the consequert expansion of its scope have
resulted in an Energy Management System (EMS) significantly different from
the load dispatch system contemplated under the second project; it uses
much more sophisticated equipment and it is thus substantially more
expensive than the dispatch facilities originally anticipated; it also
permits economic optimization of power generation across Yugoslavia's
entire interconnected system. Contrary to earlier expectations, the
Yugoslavs have been unable to mobilize the co-financing which was
originally thought to have been available for the dispatch system. As a
result of the above, the Yugoslav authorities, the Bank and EIB have agreed
to make the dispatch system the core of the proposed third project. The
hlb, which has co-financed the second project, has already signed an
agreement with the Yugoslav authorities to provide co-financing for the
*dispatch system under the proposed third project.
42.      The project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project Summary
at the beginning of this report ana described in detail in the report
"Statf Appraisal of Third Power Transmission Project." No. 4193-YU, dated
April 29, 1983, was appraised in November and December 1981, and a
post-appraisal took place in June and July 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington from harcih 22-31, 1983. The Yugoslav delegation included
representatives of the Federal Government, JUGEL and the eight borrowers
and was lea by Mr. R. Pavlovic, President of the Federal Committee for
Energy and Industry. Annex III summarizes key events leading to Board
presentat_on, special actions needed for project irplementation and the
special conditions previded for in the Loan Agreements.
Project Description and Objectives
43.      The project is the tirst of a two staoe program to install an EMS
which consists of a computerized system to allow for the remote supervision
of the interconnected power system at the national and regional levels and
permit the coordination of appropriate actions at all times. Because there
is at present no computerized supervision and control system at the
national level, the Yugoslav interconnected electric power system is
operated mainly by telephone directed operator intervention. Except for
frequency control, remote monitoring of the power plants and sub-stations
is practically non-existent. This is rather unusual for an interconnected
power system as large and as complex as Yugoslavia's. The current manner
of operation does not permit operating plans and schedules to be adapted



- 16 -
with sufticient flexibility to short term changes in hydrological and other
system conditions. The proposed program would provide the flexibility and
would allow the operation of generation and transmission facilities closer
to their technical limits while at the same time optimizing system
production cost and maximizing system reliability.
44.      The main objectives of the project would be to consolidate past
etforts to improve coordination and financial soundness of the power
sector, undertaker in the earlier loans. involvement at this time would
allow the Bank to (a) assist JUGEL to retain the necessary central role for
coordination at the national level, of system expansion planning,
implementation, supervision/control, and operation; (b) maximize its impact
on sector development and (c) play a larger role in the procurement process.
45.      The project would allow improvement of the coordinated operation
of the Yugoslav interconnected power system and should gradually lead to a
reduction and/or postponement in investments for future generating plants
and transmission by providing facilities to:
(a) maintain and improve the reliability of electricity supply in the
increasinglv complex Yugoslav power system and its
interconnections to neighboring countries;
(b) increase the rational, coordinated use of existing and future
sector facilities;
(c) re-establish service faster after emergency conditions than
currently possible;
(d) provide data to enhance system planning; and
(e) provide "real-time" data and information to a data bank to be set
up for operation planning at the federal/regional levels and to
allow each to do its own analysis of the security of system
operation.
46.      The principal components of the complete EMS program are: (i) an
Operation Planning System (OPS) for predictive management of the power
system; and (ii) a Real-Time Control System (RTCS) for on-line management
of the power system. Commurication between the different facilities of
these two systems will be achieved through a telecommunication system
consisting of microwave radio relay links. The OPS will consist of a
central computer facility to be located at a Federal Dispatch Center
(JUGEL's Dispatch Center) and remote terminal computer systems. The RTCS
will consist of real-time process computer systems to be located at the
Federal Dispatch Center (FUC) and regional dispatch centers and of a Data
Acquisition and Control System (DACS). which includes a Data Communication
betwork and kemote Terminal Units at the different generating plants and
sub-stations of the system. The main objective of the DACS is to provide a
continuous two-way data flow between the kTCS and the power system
(generating stations and sub-stations).



- 17 -
47.      The configuration of the proposed Yugoslav EhS is the result of
meeting two apparently conflicting criteria: on the one hand, the
decentralizea nature of the operating structure of the Yugoslav power
subsector, and on the other hand, the requirement of the federal law to
provide for the operation and functioning of the Yugoslav interconnected
electric power system as a single integrated system. To meet these
criteria, the EMS counts on a hierarchical control structure with Federal,
regional and area control levels; and a strong operating coordination based
on the principles of "tight operating pooling". The philosophy of the
tight operating pool is to cause each member to dispatch its units in the
same manner in which they would be dispatched by a hypothetical single
utility. This result is mainly achieved by means of a scheme of
cost/benefit allocation whicb makes it attractive for each member to
dispatch its units in the manner indicated by economic optimization. The
general objective is an organizational structure and procedures such that
the interconnected Yugoslav power enterprises can operate "optimally" while
retaining the characteristic features of decentralization and
self-management, that is, relative independence of member enterprises. The
facilities comprising the EMS will form such a hierarchical control
structure for the operation of the Yugoslav interconnected power system.
48.      Due to the relat-ively large scope and long implementation period
(10 years) of the program and in order to provide an economic return as
soon as possible, a two-stage implementation approach has been adopted.
The project proposed for Bank financing covers the first of the two stages
and has been defined to comprise all the facilities needed to provide
benefits from the EMS as soon as commissioned. At the completion of the
first stage of the program, the Yugoslav interconnected electric
power/control systems will be operatiuig in real-time and will have
available the operation planning function. The second stage of the
program, to be implementea immediately after commissioning of the first
stage, will incorporate the more complex systems software application
programs both for the OPS and the RTCS, expansion of the main and bulk
memories and peripherals, completion of the man-machine interface, and
introduction of front-end processors. In terms of investment the Stage
I/Stage II ratio is approximately 2 to 1.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
49.      The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies and
interest during construction, is $321 million of which about $184 sillion
(571) represents foreign costs. The base costs were estimated in US
dollars by JUGEL and their consultants on the basis of prices prevailing in
November, 1981. These have been updated to reflect January 1983 price
levels. The hardware and software components were derived from conceptual
and preliminary designs, which, from a technical point of view, were
sufficiently developed and therefore are not expected to change
significantly when the ;i-al designs are completed. The project cost
estimates include engineering and administration costs for the project as
well as applicable import duties and taxes. The cost of engineering



- 18 -
services has been estimated on the basis of about US$15,000 per man-month
(including subsistence and travel expenses) for foreign consultants and
US$3,000 per man-month for local consultants which is considered
reasonable. Likewise, the cost of training, which is required for this
highly technological project, has been estimated on the basis of the same
figures per man-month of foreign and local instructors. In estimating the
cost of the different systems of the EMS, special design contingencies
varying between 10 and 30% have been included for the individual systems.
50.      A relatively low overall physical contingency of 5% has been added
to the base cost (including import duties and taxes), which is reasonable
since specific design contingencies have been includei in the base cost of
each system. Price contingencies were estimated on the basis of annual
price increases of 8.0% for 1983, 7.52 for 1984, 72 for 1985, and 6.0% from
1986. These contingencies reflect the expected movement of international
prices. Cost estimates have been prepared in US dollars as the Government
plans to adjust the value of the Dinar to compensate the difference in
domestic and international price movements. Details of the cost estimates
are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
51.      The proposed Bank loan of $120 million would meet about 37Z of the
total and 65% of the estimated foreign cost requirements (including
interest during construction and front end fee). The loan would be made to
the eight participating power organizations for 15 years including 3 years
grace, at the standard interest variable interest rate, with the guarantee
of the Federal Government. The allocation of the loan among the eight
borrowers would be prorated to the cost of the dispatch facilities within
each region and a proportionate cost of the federal facilities, witb the
less developed regions receiving about 55% of the loan. In December 1982,
the European Investment Bank (EIB) approved a loan of about $64 million
equivalent; disbursements under the EIB loan will be conditional upon the
effectiveness of the Bank loan. Thus the project's foreign exchange cost
will be borne by the Bank and EIB. The borrowers have agreed, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, to provide all the project's local funds
either through internal resources or borrowings including cost overruns and
to secure from the respective regions and other relevant organizations
appropriate agreements, approvals, consents or decisions to meet any
shortfalls of funds (Loan Agreement, Recitals C, D and E of Preamble,
Sections 5.05(b) and 7.01 (b) and (c)).
Project Implementation
52.      The borrowers would be the power organizations in the eight
regions. The relations between the borrowers and JUGEL would be regulated
by a special self-management agreement on joint construction and financing
of the Yugoslav EMS. Management of project implementation will be done
through a Project Management Team in JUGEL and corresponding project teams
in each region (Loan Agreement, Scbedule 7). All project management teams
have been formed and are acting in the preparatory phase of the project.



- 19 -
The borrowers and JUGEL agreed to use consultants acceptable to the Bank to
(i) prepare bid-level designs, specificatiois, and bidding documents, and
(ii) assist in the evaluation of bids, contract negotiations, and
construction supervision (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The foreign cost
of these services would be financed from the proposed loan.
Training
53.      The successful operation of the EMS will depend on a well planned
integrated training program for the staff which would operate the EMS.
JUGEL has already prepared such a training program. The detailed timetable
for implementing the training program will be developed in agreement with
the vendors selected through the bidding process to supply the different
component systems of the EMS. The foreign cost of this training program
will be financed from the proposed Bank loan or the EIB loan depending on
the final allocation of procurement packages which in each case include
necessary associated training. About 1/3 of the requiree approximately 500
technicians are presently working in the dispatch functions of JUGEL and
regional power organizations. The additional personnel would be recruited
basically from engineers coming out of Yugoslavia's technical colleges and
universities. The training program administrator within each project
management team would have the responsibility for this recruiting.
54.      The EMS program is expected to contribute substantially to the
transfer of state-of-the-art technology to Yugoslavia. The OPS and RTCS
would use the latest computer design technology. The JUGEL and regional
cispatch centers staff is competent and is expected to absorb this
know-how. In addition, during project implementation, staff of JUGEL and
regional organizations involved with the project are expected to increase
their know-how in this field through visits to foreign power companies witb
complex control and supervision systems, and to facilities of vendors
involved in manufacturing project components and systems. Foreign expenses
associated with these technical visits would be financed from the proposed
loan.
Financial Structure and Performance
55.      Under the Second Transmission Loan (Loan No. (1469-YU), the
regional power generation and transmission enterprises (power distribution
organizations were not included) were to attain as a minimum objective an
annual net cash generation equal to 30% of their investments in power
facilities during each year, to be increased to at least 35% as quickly as
possible, and in any case within a period of five years beginning with the
fiscal year in 1978. Cash generation calculation was to include
non-repayable consumer contributiors (including special taxes and other
levies) related to the sale of ele..ricity and intended for the expansion
ot power facilities, and shortfalls in cash generation in one year were to
be compensated by overruns in the previous year or following year. Several



- 20 -
regions have not attained these targets in recent years. The principal
reasons are:
(a) failure to keep tariffs and investment levies in line with cost
increases during a period of heavy inflation and poor hydrological
conditions;
(b) an increasingly heavy debt service burden (local loan conditions
have in recent years become much less favorable than in the past,
while the foreign debt service burden has more than doubled in
line with the deterioration of the dinar exchange rate since 1980);
(c) lumpiness of capital expenditure in some regions.
56.      The power tariff and power sector investment financing policies in
the ditferent regions have always varied widely. In most regions the
policy is that sales revenues should cover operating expenses, including
interest charged to operations, and leave a small surplus on operations
(net income); major investments are financed out of loans, depreciation,
and revenues from other sources (some but not all of which are related to
electricity sales) such as levies and surcharges on electricity consumers,
connection charges, special taxes on the investment or business funds of
all enterprises. However, this policy is not uniformly applied, and in
some regions (Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia) operating losses have
repeatedly been made up by subventions from the regional governments. All
power sector investments of any significance, and the corresponding sources
of finance, have to be approved by the regional COIs (producer and consumer
assemblies), governments and parliaments, both project by project and as
part of the annual and 5-year planning process. Moreover, tariff increases
are presently subject to temporary price control& and Federal approval as
part of the emergency measures taken in connection with the economic
stabilization program. In two of the most important regions, Slovenia and
Croatia, COls themselves acts as custodians of the investment funds
collectea from consumers and other sources, making them available in the
torm of loans for capital expenditure of the power enterprises. The
decisions on tariff and investment financing policy and on the extent of
tarift increases, are thus, in effect, largely outside the control of the
power enterprises and the cash generation covenants in the existing loan
agreements have had little impact in the regional tariff setting process.
Tariffs are, nevertheless, under continuous review, and adjusted at least
once a year to allow for cost increases.
57.      The financial results of the borrowers for t:.e years 1979-82, as
well as financial projections for the years 1983-87 prepared in 1982 on the
basis of the medium and long term plan figures available at the time,
showed that sizeable tariff increases would be required in real terms
auring the years 1983-87 to ensure the recovery of operating expenses and
interest on loans, and to produce a net cash generation after debt service
of 30% or more. The tariff policy of the power sector was, therefore,



- 21 -
discussed at length witb the Yugoslav authorities both before and during
negotiations for the proposed Loan as well as in the context of the
Structural Adjustment Loan. During these discussions the Government and
the borrowers accepted the fact that electricity prices in Yugoslavia
represented only about 50-60% of LRMC of supplying electricity and they
confirmed their intention to bring those prices in line with international
levels within a period of 4-5 years. To reflect this objective, the
borrowers agreed to replace the cash generation requirement by a provision
which stipulates that the electricity tariff (sales prices, including
connection charges and non-reimbursable consumer contributions for the
construction of fixed assets) will be increased by annual adjustments over
a five-year period ending December 31, 1987 to a level of not less than the
average LRhC of supply of electricity (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(a)). A
tariff increase representing the first adjustment in reaching the above
objective, will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan
Agreement, bection 7.01(a)). Understandings have been reached in a
supplemental letter that this first adjustment will represent a tariff
increase of 15Z over that existing as of April 1, 1983 plus the increase in
cost levels as measured by the Yugoslav Producer Price Index between
April 1, 1983 and the time of effect of this increase. It is expected that
this tariff increase will be introduced in January 1984. In order to
determine what further annual adjustments will be required to reach LRMC
over the tive-year period, the borrowers agreed to develop in agreement
with the bank a common methodology to calculate LRhC by January 31, 1984
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(b)). In order to ensure compliance with the
financial covenants in the future, and obtain confirmation that the
responsible regional authorities will take all necessary actions on their
part to enable the borrowers to comply with the provisions concerning
tariff action, the borrowers agreed, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
to secure from the respective regions and other relevant organizations
appropr4ate agreements, approvals, consents or decisions (Loan Agreement,
Recital C of Preamble; Section 5.04 and 7.01(b)). Although the Loan
Agreement no longer includes cash generation provisions, cash generation
will exceed the targets under the previous covenants once tariffs are
adjusted to a level reflecting LRMC, and should reach 30% or more in seven
of the eight regions in 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.      Procurement of all works and goods (including software) proposed
for Bank or EIB financing would be through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) consistent with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, as also
agreed by EIB. Thirteen contract packages, involving substantial foreign
exchange in each case, will be procured in this manner.
59.      Disbursements from the Bank loan, would be made for the foreign
exchange expenditures and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of supply
contracts awarded under Bank Guidelines, 50% of total expenditures for
civil works for the JUGEL dispatch center, and for the foreign exchange
expenditures of training and of contracts for consultants services selected



- 22 -
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Specific allocation of contracts
between the Bank and EIB would depend on the outcome of bidding. The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988 and the loan
closing date would be December 31, 1989 to allow for payment of retention
money, and take into consideration the relatively long commissioning period
which could be needed for this advanced technology project.
60.      Retroactive financing of up to UStO.5 million, equivalent to about
0.41 of the proposed loan, is proposed to cover consultant services to
assist the borrowers and JUGEL during the bidding process, bid evaluation,
and contract negotiations between January 1, 1983 and loan signing. These
activities cannot be delayed if the implementation schedules for the
project are to be met.
Accounting and Audit
61.      The First and Second Power Transmission Projects (Loans 836 and
1469-YU) included consulting components for the study of improvements in
the areas of accounting, financial planning and control and the
establishment of an appropriate financial management information system.
'While progress in this area has been slow, JUGEL has now an experienced
financial manager and it is expected that in the coming years most regions
will follow JUGEL's lead.
62.      Annual financial statements in Yugoslavia are subject to audit by
the Social Accounting Service (SDK) which now carries nut audits to
international standards for a large number of ent.irprises. Since its
resources are still limited, it has only recently begun work in the power
sector but, for the financial year 1983, audit reports are expected to be
received for all regional power organizations.
63.      In addition to already existing audit and financial reporting
requirements the borrowers agreed, with the assistance of the competent
regional authorities, to extend the above requirements to (a) all
enterprises under formation for the construction of power plants which are
to become constituent organizations of any of the borrowers upon
commissioning of such power plant, and (b) the relevant accounts of any COI
which is acting as custodian for power sector funds. If necessary, the
borrowers wnuld provide for the payment of the costs of such audits
(Section 5.02(b) of Loan Agreement). As a condition of effectiveness, the
borrowers agreed to secure all appropriate agreements, approvals, consents
or decisions from the respective regions and other relevant organizations
to comply with these provisions (Loan Agreement, Recital C of Preamble,
Section 7.01(d)).
Environmental Impact
64.      The project's effect on the environment would be negligible.  The
only noticeable environmental aspect will be the visual impact of microwave



- 23 -
relay stations wbich form part of the telecommunication systems. These
stations, however, would be installed at the site of existing relay
stations of the public telecommunications network of Yugoslavia.
Benefits and Risks
65.      The project has a key role co play in achieving the Government's
objective of increased dependence on domestic resources for meeting the
power subsector's needs of primary energy by building a strong and reliable
380 kV interconnected power transmission network. It was recognized by the
Yugoslav authorities and the Bank that, unless the network is supplemented
by modern dispatcbing facilities, the future demand for electricity could
not be met at least cost to the economy. The project would provide the
tacilities needed to improve the efficiency by whicb the entire Yugoslav
system is operated, and therefore the justification for it binges largely
on the saving it would provide. The economic rate of return of the project
is estimated at about 16X. In calculating the return, only the measurable
costs and benefits were used in the calculation. The benefits include; (a)
the net saving in the average fuel cost resulting from rbe improvement in
the tuel efficiency brougbt about by the economic dispatcbing of plants
throughout Yugoslavia; and (b) the net saving in capacity cost associated
with the reduction of the reserve margin tbat would bave been otherwise
maintained by each region. If added benefits sucb as the improvement in
system reliability, scbeduling of plant maintenance and system control were
taken into account, the rate of return would increase to about 202.
66.      Due to the higb technology state-of-the-art nature of the project,
there are risks associated with the fact that this technology is
continuously evolving and changing rapidly. Staff involved in project
implementation may therefore lack certain necessary skills at key dates.
However, the participation of qualified consultants and the carefully
schedulea training program tied to eacb supply contract sbould minimize
this risk. To furtber minimize it, the project training program is
designed with a flexible approacb to permit adaptation to a rapidly
evolving supervisory systems technology. The coordination of
implementation to be provided by the Coordinating Committee and the Project
Management Team at JUGEL should assist in ensuring that the equipment and
system configurations of the various project components are compatible.
67.      Even tbough the borrowers have entered into agreements in order to
use efficiently the EMS, the risk exists nevertheless, that joint operation
could be hampered by differences of opinion on bow to implement the EMS.
There is, furtbermore. the risk that local counterpart funds might not be
provided by the borrowers in a timely fashion. The Bank will tberefore
closely monitor the assurances given to the Bank by the borrowers and other
authorities involved in the project.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AIND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, Elektroprivreda Bosne i
Hercegovine-Sarajevo, Elektroprivreda Crue Core-Niksic, Zajednica
Elektroprivrednib Organizacija Hrvatske-Zagreb, Elektrostopaustvo na
Makedonija-Skopje, Elektrogospodarstvo Slovenije-Maribor, Zdruzena
Elektroprivreda-Beograd, Elektroprivreda Kosova-Pristina. Elektrovojvodina-
Novi Sad, and the Union of Yugoslav Electric Pover Industry (JUGEL), the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special
conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01) are tbat:
(i) all measures relating to the first tariff adjustment over the
five-year period during wbicb tariffs are to be adjusted to LRNC
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 57);
(ii) all agreements, approvals, consents or decisions from the
respective regions and other relevant organizations regarding the
preparation of the investment plan (para. 39); tariff action
(para. 57); submission of financial data and audits of
organizations otber than the Borrowers (para. 63); and the
provisions of funds to meet any shortfalls (para. 51) have been
given or made in substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) satisfactory amounts for local financing of the project, including
cost overruns, bave been secured (para. 51).
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -  RECOHM1ENDATIONS
70. 1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 5. 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                 ANN   I
Page 1 of 6
T AB LE 3A                                        PAG  t
YUGOSLAVIA             - SOCL  DIDCATORS DA  SHEEC
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERE    GRO    (ICHrED AVERAGES) la
lST                     loUST RECENT ESTIATE) /b
19b fEsT  lb                  MIDDLE DAGER             zmDUSTIL
a9         1970.- EST DA                EUIPE             MRKET MOfIES
ARE CMIID 5Q. nt)
TOTAL                             255.8       255.6      255.8
ACRICCLTURAL                      148.2       146.3       142.9
CUP PM CAPIrA 015)                   380.0       820.0     2790.0            2453.6                  illZ7
arm     IOKUPI  PMX CA17A
(KILOCRANS OF CAL EQUIVALEST)    a85.0       1558.0     2402.0            1580.8                  7500.6
paPUIAlOU Mm VITAL SfSTTGS
PoFULAIOS,mlD-YTEAAR (TOUSASDS)  1t602.0    20371.0    22516.0
URBAN PUPULATIOC  (: OF TOTAL)     27.9        34.6       43.1              47.8                     78.2
POprLATICS PRJEcTrIOsS
jOPULATIOS IS YEAR 20O C(ULL) -                        25.8
STATIOSANY POPULATION (HILL)                            30.0
YSAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                            2070,
POPULAT^ION DESSIT
PER SQ. MM.                      71.9        79.6       87.3              82.0                    L39.0
PER SQ.  . AGRI. LAND           124.2       139.3       156_4            L57.2-                   5l4.Z
POPiLATIos ACE sucruR£ (:)
0-:: -AS                        30.5        27.4       Z4.5              31.9                     ZZ.4
15-64 IRS                        63.2        64.8       66.7              60.9                     66.0
65 AND ABVE                       6.3         7.8        3.6               7.2                    l1.6
POPULATION CR012 RATE (2)
OTAL                              1 t12       1.0        0.9               1.6                      0.8
URBAN:                            3.6         3.2        2.9               3.4                      1.4
CatUDE BIRTH RATE (PER T1805)      23.5        17.8        16.7             25.0                     13.8
CalDE DEAr RATE (PER TOUS)          9.9         8.9        9.0               9.1                      8.9
GROSS REPRKOCrIOS RATE              1.4         1.3         1.1              1.7                      0.9
FAnIY PLASXG-
ACCEPTORS, A2UAL (TIS)              ..
USERS (2 OF !IARRED 1a9EN)                   S9...                                                   .
POOD SAD UIRMO
ItDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      85.0        93.0      117.0             108.4                    l12.4
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUiRLEnTS)     1Z2.O      130.0      140.0             129.6                    134.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         95.0        93.0      0I1.0             92.3                      99.0
OF 61IIG  ANLMAL AND PULSE      29.0        32.0       39.0c            34.6                     61.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        11.2         4.6        1.8              10.4                      0.4
LIFE EXPECT. AT BLUR (YEARS)       63.2        66.7       70.8              67.2                     74.9
ISrANT MORT. RATE (PER TOL'S)      91.9        55.5       30.6              71.4                     10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER C-POP)
TOTAL                                        33.61d
URBAN                            42.41d      62.0o,.
RURAL                              ..        12.37        .
ACCESS TOD XCRErA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBA,                                                   ..                ..
RURAL                               -          __          -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1620.0      1000.0      680.0            1094.6                    553.6
POP. PER SURSISC PERSq.2          630.0/e    410.0       280.0             762.5                    18.9
POP. PER WOSPiTAL BED
TOTAL                           200.0       180.0       170.0ff          334.0                    119.8
URBAN                            90.0ke    100.0       LO.oTr           216.0                    143.2
RURA                           1040.OIc   1600.0       IS40.dO.
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          .         17.3        18.2/f           20.0                     17.7
OSIRC
AVERAGE SIZE OF BOUSESOLO
TOTAL                             4.0         3.8        3.8/f
URBS                              3.3         3.2         3.3Tf.
RURAL                             4.4         4.3        4.                 ..                       .
AVERAGE SO. OF PERSONS/ROO!
TOTAL                             1.6         1.4
URBAS                             1.7         1.3
RURAL                             1.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            54.5        87.9
URBAN                            9Z.7        95.4
RURAL                            36.1        S0.1



-26 -ANNE  I
-26-                           ~~~~~~~~~Page 2of 6
T A H LE  3A                                      mm 2
YUWGSLAVIA             - SOCIAL IDICATORS DATA SI3ET
YUGOSLAVIA                          ROWLEECE  naiPS (IKIRTED AVERAGES) in
mOST                     (QMST RECENT ESlDAIE) lb
RECEST           DOLE l                  D IISIL
196t       IY70-t                                         KATESTL.MTb  m  ECMxS
ADJSTED ENROEEET RATIOS
?RDART   TOrAL                  111.0       106.0       99.0             102.2                    101.5
KALE                  113.0      108-0       100_0            107.2                    103.3
FE!SALE              108.0      100          98.0             97.9                    103.3
SECOWXAY: TOr!L                  58.0        63.0       83.0              56.5                     S9.2
MXLE                   63.0       68.0        86.0             '3.4                     84.5
fUIAL£                 53.0      5S.0         80.0             4E.9                     36.0
VOCATIONAL C? OF SECOD!ART)          ..        26.4       24.2              22.4                     13.3
PUMPU-TEAOURE RATIO
PRISMAt                          33.0        27.0       24.0              24.7                     20.2
SECUMA1ta                        13.0        22.0       18.0              22.1                     14.4
ADLT LITERACY RATE CZ)             76.5        83.5       85*0.             69.7                     93.9
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP         3.0         5.4       34.7/b            52.9                    356.5
RADIO RECEIUUS/THOIUSASD POP       R4.9       165.9      207_4             165.5                   105.4
Tr RECEIVERSITII3SAND POP           1.4        83.3      192.4             124.2                    U9.5
EUSPAPE1R (DAILY CLER
RNTERSTr) CIRFCMATIOS
PER TROUSAND POPMLATION           70.3        85.3      103.0              96.3                    331.3
CINVER ANSUAL ATrEDa.CEICAPITA,     7.1         4.5        3.5               2.9                      3.5
TAzoa FORCIE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE CTHIos)        8302.0 D     8380-/l   9485.0/1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 35.0        35.95F     3641              34.5                     36.1
ACRIWLTMRE (PERCEsT)             63.0        51.0       29.0              40.7                      6.2
MDOTRT (PERCE.r)                 18.0        23.0       35.0              23.4                     37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCETr)
TOTAL                            45.1        43.4       42.1              42.0                     45.5
IALE                             60.0        56.6       54.6              55.2 9.0
rL4ALE                           30.9        30.6       30.0              29.1                     32.5
ECONMIC DEPESDENCC RATIO            0.3         0.3        0.8               0.9                      0.3
1300El DISUIUUTI
PERCEiT OF PRIVATE ISCMr?
tECEIVED K!
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHUQDS          16.41       15.1/k     13.1/I,
HIGHEST 20Z OF HDUSEM.DS         41.5L1      41.47k     38.77i    i                                43.1
LInEST 2G OF HOOSEHOLDS           6.9j1       6 67i-     6.67i;                                     5.5
LOWEST 40? OF HODSU.DS           19.0jt      is-47k      18 771S            _,                     16.5
POVECS TACEST CEOOS
ESTIMATED ABSUL.UE POVLTI I.ICUtE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN ;
RUL
ESrIMATED REATIVE POVERTr INCOME
LEVE (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA'I
RURAL                                                  530.0             409.0
ESTIMATED PoP. BELOW ALSOLUTE
POVERTYr I1COM LEVEL (2)
URBAN
RURAL
Nso AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group avermges for eade indle-tor are population-eIghted arithetiC  _m. Co,orge of co<trI- aao,g th
indicators depends on avsilabillty of daca and Is not lifort.
lb Unless otberwise noted, D-ata for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- b-tL.n 1969 and
1971; and date for -Most Recent EsteIntee betwen 1979 and 1931.
lc 1977: Id Percent of occupied housing units with piped seter; /a 1962; If 1976; j  1975; lh 1978: It Includivg
migrant workers abroad; Li 1963: lk 196S.
Way 1983



ANNX I
Pag-e 3 of 6
- 27 -                                                                                Pam 3
rtlt    t orCia L croas~
rain:    Znt.rh theIota  re Irn ft.  a-acaa goreti,jMSMa th   etotaia  o   elrlsl. tt ..mIod o.o: ho eat  fla  tCe  eat a-  be   tttoieal
eeeerahl  httaoe  t th  lac  of otoactolltttt111         te-   net  aa  by 4sf.a-s  oa.art.  to telee-Itte   h    aa                 aaae  .ee.he ge.   e    C.1c
Ieetlt  ttr,  f   ga tM,toftttaf  tredt. aol chratttetni,eao  dfforco  he.eo    a-trIes
Tb. ref     .   _V. Cotar   at  CI Ith  *o  roetc  gs-   of the aobje    --tr   ae (21 *       trp gr_p  bilab-nflt Iitahe  aearae ltar               ths .the  coar  gre-   of th
sobjart eC,-tr i.c    for fllIgh lscee  Oil tap-rtet   graop    te -2,1d4t  Ieea   -Ieth Me-t  It   1M.  a    a  hte  ea-  .1 -teeo  ea eltt
oftutetetea.  Ceth  ref.=a.sopdt  h   ergsoepeaataalhe    rtt    -e   a each telleatot .o-  thee- a,neae  ajrt                                                the taeatrlo  to
gfro  ba   at   e  that tIts .Stat  th   aeaea  r.fee    a   tetlctr  lapeoi  -  the aItabtiLiy etdl   e   a-.mi t.   ata                                              th
*S-l - ae?artt1            ae  t-pttatsc ladM are  a1 tLaad" eataa  tOW(.                                             Fflo d-.te   a ZIlco   "'at  te.orct  tol
now- -.. now0 4.                                                                                          L-oatawehrtcPn.-tptstttde    ye~    tpateo
let  ree.  potoso. sttetarmSlmttheegare.. t- t  ti.fal..   ISO.seotn   aaiLaric
M kil.ft- "Id-  Lt.                               -.I~~~tthatc aerti   tte   yteetaata    -e   thalo 
cop to catrt,  inns  - Cali, rncpitantm-aa  ta--C           n oshet P"t.-.                           ae Cah      .  oht1t -4t A.oat. geea  oat oetotta-opta 
ralctst.  ~oa    toott*s   -that -  Worl  Pa-k Otto. (tWO-al hZtb                           eatlotocto.tataaaeotht~t   e ool  ate!f .ffd
100   5t,% se  151 data,                                                                       by a   Ieat         pbstla.   sthtalat  ,ra-tdtLg P'ttlpellytaflo
Ca-at  sattetad.  larl   LesItol. h-eaa,. Zteral  tatIth a
231CT O.!p.   e  capita -.  n.e.  appacto  caaaa la  of e-ertoi                                      .dlcttdeatr  -Pero.ettl tta    f ta  h  *   Mtyaes  iaL          ya    la
prlacr- aee  ra   o             Cttt.  trlo,at- l a- o-t t.od-. .ata                                ttast ar.   t,te    tc?Sihatrt-eatoa  ac.   otn   oa
as  oataaa  elttctrtetl) to ktar           f col    loleePee -tat:                               Ired      t.fted  -ft.e af edJcat fattlt1te-   taVt.,       ato   pt0
,,00,  57.. *e  tsea data                                                                         eca   aptt   otd    MIoetcetgorlhatoa   l 
POPt'f"trom  tnri11`  STiTmiTiCq                                                                     Sttaiaalh          _ait.: are ta-ae  se,  ate  tota.
.ats  raalatea.ate-eartthoaoaa  A. aof -Itt1. I; tOS. 1OPO. oa  151                   Maata   e  tttlGt- iota  a.=at af atItsoe-  t,e er toehtg
data,                                                                   fee~~~~~~~~~~~1    eepit1t  ..L-te  ht  Ite--bet of bel..
tlhe   Pesonasletentoftaal    Rt.o tf etho  og toa  pptst
ttletateaeatto. o  abo  ara.a-  offat aa tUatit   at data                      KestRe
aa-q  a..eiea:t*r    0.0 oat last dat..eaeIo   ftahl   ets.tehaebll-ett  .he   n   aa
Ptpastto  Pattt tas                                                                 -a ha-aolt  aeaotaat egrep a  taectdolaatethee CIttagqeater
pates,  the poemoter, far t Ln ? ttyrat  ala- bat  tre  Io-ts                          oat      dP_rs
ost..iegtatte  Istcrtlttteacaliegto tt..eleve  -M  pest tosily                  reat    ttrtt    eco   f                          _.It.a    ttt  eha  ao  reti
ploarla  pefotosta.Each eoote  t. 'the   aaga  -   of thee sloe                         Caaea?oaI-        titg   ith eletrtett  ta L&Itetgo-ota   teta.
..blaej-  o  --tIIty  -ed tattlity, trI. tot pcajottt- paia.i   atl   t . aM  rari   LIottsg   reptrtl-tp.
PoPoLta."j   aire-t  alo    -  the ha&. of the pesjttd tharacear-                               rtryhe-aeepat_as; a-elyttlt. ehlbtre  age  b-Il
tatta  tepp.lto   oth   erIfJt  a  tertao   atmatya.ha   l.t-    t   iteettsgh   trtac-lrat.   a
flFa  s100  nn e9atlsdta.M                                                                .Pptatctt  ty - f-I   t M 17 reac  ofae   eroeee-   efa
raaola  CStatt   (ect)- C.tI14e  (0-1 itpoel   -tlaaaCl-tcli   atett "                                         eamrtol  or otereata  ottO epetat  ta od-
Sm I---). tee rettre  (hI pa-t  oa  -eer) -   stsog.a   t-yerni t-   lorrtaot   .f  etttoYtettto
p      MOato;15. ijs   ae  otIta.WIla4                                                  tttttahr  a at a-e   ee  ato -oc  - --t.Z attot-  -atlle  to
Paesl.et-e   ro "  !tat(eees)   ttt - -nso  -reth teof totl sit-                                  Pr)asy at  aeoeay  eel  .te1ed by a-ten- st tea-hr  tt the  s
porpoomo.lata  far in-.  0)at  aa   000.raett                                                                et
rattlta=     ratntt   ttet -,, !tgz         - fl--Ie-&    hte    t-r- dtttraerc  (P,-]tt  - Ittetat  a.lft. (able -aea  al  -SteA-)
Passtoo  e  iSC tt.tbP70   t  1030-14                                      -.41                     ct'tg  attoa C_       at pematea   o  'Syeroteer
teat popolot toe; 1100, iOtt. ott ~~~~~~1141 dat.                                   mssrfl
rotatsttao; ts ,.tOh,oa  1053. daa=oe  -t    t-ess thea aisle ero: ett.ao                                                                                 tt   ersae
f ItLit.  -ott;a     I.lt  tteaea  aerge   ats  it 1550. i%n0a. -ratat                                       gesa        L.ti  tee tts.ae  ofP"ytta  stae   -
1901.                                                                                           ItCestd reretet  to toTateo  ao  to rea.tnetettaotfrlo
Santetis-n      ireo           feas  't-eaa.s  - na-a  t.a-he  at ac,tepr                         tta-tatfett; d4-t toe reto  year. eat a-              -e ,paaleaa-   -
at htttc.e.tre  loetot 0dee o.pnc- of  at t-at ta-Lt, plntr                         C-atte   astnnbld ttrea-Lto
Wpogee                                                                                        it0ttrt    e   taaM                         T.eatmo    _Ir_etee  lot brtadtot to
roett  tlo_-t -    at  te7         a f a-eeL    .e3-rtetc  .   at"                                   eearlt   e  the-tapaeoe..  etIle  a.ile Ve itt-et-r
no  ot  hild-earto  toe   t-~  eatal ac, anStrebreatrl aeo.et 1  tetoatttaaaitt  -sr.  at relstrottee o  it acs as  to e 'e,t
atacle t.ael.aa-c,arst                               ~-ttlrbot.o.attco.eofeloltoOto
tid. o  'aol  r.ta..., bp.  Catt                    prtt-ntl"]     .leAo   (.ee  apit     .ttit-.Iletm   :or I..te.ct.ocota   ec.  .                             m.t)
feelaolto -ra!.els  petCha-is.      .L C.tte   rarEr pt-rt aaai ft4.                  tt.eet   a-tao?    ", cersCe.r   CaIato   et    ae   -  t _tastc at
adtoaetoeeottf  aerl  ttc  sP  edhi  aolC. roetate   19ttett  (AM .                    tnht   ollttm   h   et  ttol0atalo   oSnenetmea
csfooat  te  ae  srlsld)   atreot  paletlt  f rthraotr  I                ell MICE    a
heed nt  -et-alaeraa  prleet  tir  etito;   Ght-i  t., te  05
data.                                                                    ISO fOelt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.  .".
day.  Atatlele npetteo  asertot tentet pettattse, i.p.rt   tet4oattooo  alt. 97 a                        -e.  Isttltatetcett   - t-t  r   a
Oa_ttltt   -de to food PC-esto   al la-set te Iteih-tLos:.                                      teaoiert)-ftt   aa   oea   ettaea  oa   ao   ot.
Ottttty al heOtit oOltbty eFMroaetto  tepttr. hol  eihs.tnho.                                          peLtetage 2      toa  lh, lotte:   2h'.C ntoallOldt.
%e-aete  iettato   ol4.. etsola%at*t.la  tttel  teea-te                                    ...a..tetetl-tao   -tre  te.. aIses            A. coteate.! a-estariatlt
pola  pratlt.of leit  It  eea  shal  heato    tti.Tht                                    10   !e  e -.I  i-tato, a,-ef  atMae               tI -.,pttrtert. r. 
d'ta.                                                                                       ltCOtI Elt"Slurntt
Cel   (es   AV   eihGaeSpcthaal)--aoa   oah-preh-taltorrc--o    f  teoetenI ab i.  ot  tl  ote    rt-edhrtttl
ate Ia-p  -  yere, Co ... .te  to  ...l agMr-;feas   oeotgptan   tto   1tree   eeo   :pct   e  ptott  W,etoco
roerit  lna  celedtee  lIe  oate;  10, Sit  el'tmlt  aa                           eatt
caa    f St  SItar  tetet  fprlata  -ttl  ahs  alc -.I.tttoat"  .ft.eeIt:  ie .aasatso-food  Ceoemt. a-f
t    ibfatpol   'ttlC  ra   t   eai   tbraoot   -ot   aaf                                   talbe
maetpLy  taL  lttonm   eft   -oea  atetlbttteclslttrtotrlts   ee    lt-cala       ro   a   ao 
lotaneesa-te  soet arh a  tht f n prtetet hcahoes.  petut.  at  eralretatre   are.y l-n  bat t .t-thta otao             P.,e et tett
lalat   els  a   eeetce   t hteroptle  eeltos.£0a                                        at-all-n   f e   outy.tho   om                      erel  es te  aa
orb, area s   ebtir lo-etol  tratolpeot la-ace   mtar          2h.0o)atr0etetta3s                                       ftc  Ihlghttn  tt1  r  Idesm Ia a-Mtt.
te       ossyh   otIrda   ae   thataaal  -oaa   hnfetae                                                    teit-SleAati    oct   acebe    lree       te
hoea.  f  aot  reareo--I:eares a-a14           t  ht h   a.enteo                           a  oa  - petotett  atalten  totat  ,   aa   tSelat
taa       tc   otol   ol? t- Maby              care?  etolh           ptrta                                                        _~ -FI   MPC)-i                   ..      f
Stnposol an itreretasot ef thelt erepertlee petolettain.  totteta Ilseetol1983



- 281 -
AEX   I
Page .1 of 6
Population: 22.3 millin (mid-1981)
CGP Per Capita: EJSS2.790 (1951)
YUGOSIATIA - EGINUC INDICOORS
AunC                                              Anmual Growth Rates CZ)
(million US at                                       (at cm-tant 1972 prices)
Lesicator                 current prices)                              Actual                                           Pr.ject*d
1980 c/        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1951    1982 -   1983    1984    1985    1990
UAIIIJEAL AC0081-
Gross domestic product *t     69.232            0.9      5.2     8.4      8.5      4.2     2.2      2.2    -1.0    -1.7       2.0      2.7     4.3
Agricultucre                 8.516           -2.6      6.4     5.7    -5.4       5.4     0.0      1.0      5.0     0.0      2.0      2.0     2.0
dustry                      28.W01            7.4     4.1      9.5      9.3     8.5      3.6      1.1    -2.7    -2.0       3.0     4.0      6.0
Sevices                     24.993            1.4      5.3     7.1    13.'    -2.0    -2.2        3.4    -1.0    -2.0       1.0      1.5     3.0
"oas.ptioe                    48.760           -3.3      0.0     9.8    13.0       3.8     0.6    -1.1    -0.7    -1.7        2.5      2.4     3.9
Gresp investmet               23.218           10.1      3.6    17.4    -3.2    12.0    -3.2    -1.2    -6.0         0.0      3.0      3.2     4.0
Exports of GCIS               14.053            1.1    10.4    -2.0       4.8     2.6    12.6       9.3    -5.7    -2.0       6.0     6.0      6.8
ISports of GC S               16.799           -1.3    -8.6    16.1       2.5    12.0    -9.7    -2.6   -10.8    -2.0         8.7     6.0      S.b
Gross eatinsal savings         19.619          14.7    20.6      5.6    -3.1       3.4      5.8      -        -       -        -        -      -
PRICES
cur vfzator (1972 100)           411          170      204     232      260      313     411         575      731     -        -        -      -
Exchange rate                     24.9         17.4    18.2    18.3    18.6    19.0    24.9          35.5    51.3     -        -        -      -
Sbsr ef GDP at Iwrket Prices CZ)                               Average Annual Increase (2)
(ot curr et orice-) b/                                     Cut conrtanc 1972 price.)
1960    1970      1975    1980 -    1985      1990             1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Gross Domestic prduct */    100.0   100.0    100.0   10.0    100.0    100.0                    5.9       6.5      5.7       0.5      4.2
Agriculture                 22.5    16.1      13.8    12.3      13.1      11;8                3.3       2.9      2.4       2.0       2.0
Induscry                   42.2    37.6       44.3    41.6      41.4      44.7                6.3      8.3       7.0       0.3      5.9
Servic-                    29.0    38.1       33.1    36.1      35.7      33.6                6.9      4.7       4.3       0.2      2.9
Consuwptin                   67.2    72.8       74.3    70.4      69.2      68.6                6.5       6.9      5.4      -0.2      4.0
Gros invsstnent              36.5    32.3       33.5    30.5      29.D      29.0                4.7       5.5      5.3      -0.9      4.1
hxports GIlS                 13.9    1U.5       20.2    27.7      29.3      33.0               10.2       6.7      5.7       1.5      4.1
Imports GNIS                 17.5    23.5       28.0    31.4      27.5      30.7                9.8      6.7       2.5      -1.5      6.5
Gross untisl savings          32.6    29.b       23.6    28.3      29.5      29.9                5.3       6.2      o.S        -        -
AN Z of GOP
1l90    1970      1975    1980    1981
PVUIL-C FIA8E
total revenu                 27.9    33.L       36.8    34.0      32.3
Total expenwiture            24.1    33.2       37.2    34.6      31.6
Surplus (-) or deficit (-)    3.3      0.1      -0.4     0.6       0.6
Foreign financing             0.0      0.0     -0.A      0.0       0.0
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  19W1-85  1985-90
07NER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)           6.1      6.7       5.7      0.1      4.2
GUT per cspita growth race    5.0      6.6       4.7    -0.8       3.3
IcLt                          5.4      4.6       5.8    35.3       7.0
imort staticity               1.6      1.0      0.5    -3.0        1.5
a/ At arket prices; C _mponats are expressed at factor cost ad vill not add up to total due to exclusion of net indirect tames  n  subsidies.
b2 Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
ci Esctste.
Api IC
APril 19. 1983



-29-
ANNEX I
Paz. 5 f 6
Population: 22.3 million (mid-1931)
CGP far Capitas  US82.79D 11901)
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
_nt                                                   Annual Growth Rates  I)
(million US$ at                                          (at constant 1972 prices)
InDicator                  curreot prices)                                 Actual                                        e7                Projected
t1981)           1975      1976      1917      1975       1979      1950    1951    1932   1983    1984    1955    1990
EXTERNAL TIID.
RerclModtue exports              ID.204            0.0      14.5      -5.3       1.0       1L6       ll.0    11.7   -6.2   0.5    6.0        6.0    7.0
Primary .1                     1.709           -3.1       16.6       3.9       1.5       2.0       2.5  -14.6       1.9   a.5      6.0     6.0    7.0
msnutfctures bk               85495              0.4      13.9       4.8       0.8        1.5      13.5    19.0    -7.8   0.5      6.0     6.0    7.0
Merchandise Imports             14.528            -2.8      -6.5      18.5       3.5       12.9    -10.5   -4.9   -10.0  -0.3        8.6     6.0    5.5
FooJ                             888          -40.9       45.6       4.3    -24.2       35.6      -2.3   -7.4  -13.1   0.0         5.0     6.0    4.5
Petrolta cl                    3.76Z            5.0      10.1      12.0      11.6       7.3      -6.2   -1.4  -14.2    3.0        5.0     6.0    7.0
Nac-inery and equipment        3.756           22.3      -8.5       17.8       7.1      15 4     -17.4  -15.6  -12.7  - 5.4    9.4         6.0    6.0
Others                         6.123          -11.9    -12.7        22.1       4.4       8.8      -7.0      0.0  -14.1    2.0      9.4     5.0    5.1
PEhCuS (1972 - 100)
=p.rt pric- indes                  316           172       180       202       220       259        308     314     336    354    311    411    5SO
Import price index                 352          154        159       216       226       281       337     342      349    363     354     407    560
Terms of trade itad                 89.7         93.5       95.2      53.5      97.3      92.2       91.4    91.8   96.3  97.6   99.6  101.0  98.3
Compositio  of merchandise  Trade (I)                                 Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices) dt                                           (at constant 1977 prices
1960      1970      1975      1980  -   1955       1990               1960-70   1970-75   1975-50  1950-85   1985-90
Exporcs                                  100.0    lOo.o    100.0-   100.0        I0.0      100.0                  8.1      5S7        5.1      2.5      6.8
Primary Al                             49.6      29.4       19.5      22.0      21.0      21.0                   -       -1.3       6.0      2.7      6.8
anufactures bl                         50.4       70.6      80.5      78.0      79.0      79.0                   -        8.1       4.7      2.6      6.8
Imports                                 100.0    lOO.o    100.0    100.0    1OO.0          100.0                 9.0        7.4       4.1     -1.6      6.5
Food                                    9.1        7.2       5.5       72?       8.5       8.0                   -        5.0      14.9    -4.0       5.4
retrolem el                             5.4       4.5       12.3      23.6       8.7       5.6                   -        8.2       7.2      1.3      6.1
-aimary  and equipment                 36.8      33.2       33.9      28.0      29.2      29.7                   -        9.4       3.1    -3.6       6.9
Others                                 46.7       54.8      48.3      41.2      53.6      53.6                   -        6.0       3.5    -0.7       6.5
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with Capital         Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries U.)          Oevelopigg countries (21        Surplus Oil exporters (2)    Centrally Planned Economies (2)
1965    1970     1975     1981     1965    1970    1975    1981   1965    1970    1975    298l      1965    1970    1975    1981
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exporta               40.1    53.3    34.0      31.0      17.4    13.6   16.8   18.3    0.4       0.7     2.1    11.8    42.1    32.4   47.1   45.9
primary             61.0    70.2    54.0       -         9.1     8.2     8.9     -      0.2     0.2     1.9      -       29.7   21.4   35.2       -
Manufactures        24.0    41.9     26.0      -        23.8    17.2   20.0      -      0.6      1.0    2.1      -       51.6   39.9    51.9      -
rmports              3553    66.2      59.1     50.1      16.0    12.7   15.7    15.3   0.1       0.1     0.6      9.1     25.6    21.1   24.6   30.7
'1 S12C 0-4
b7  SIIC 5-8
rS  SOC 3; includes luhracanta  col and electricity.
WI PrDjected years at constant 1°_ ;-icea.
Z/ Acimstss.
EMmAe IC
May 24. 1983



-30-
a t 
tJr   X9  - saANS oa rvanu S. fItuL ClTAL am ouT
POpulatisI  22.3 millie (m t19l1
63W Per CepitLs ut2.70 (19181)
1910       S75S       1979       9F7        1978       1979      110   1981         32 1          1153      I3           1MS        lw
t"apn   eIt ,d  ad e -yicee                  3.031      5,012      9,142     Ia.35"     32.,0       16.276     11.310 20.007    I9.871        20.976     23.585     2b.630     45.777
of stick:  Herchedies f.o.b.              X1.79       6.0* 3     4.293      5.191      5.509       2.794      9.975 10.204    10.297        11.019    13.,15    13.114       26.728
trpel .o  .e d servzIeS                      3.381      90U3       3.977     11.922     j3.352      17.937     20.S92 20.954    20.140        20.924     23,770     76.119    45,191
O1  hich : NeruL t  e.s.f.                 2.576      7.697     7J167       9.789     10 .39      14.019     15.09t  14.523    33.336       13.397     15.397     17.295     22.535
LetcramE."et                                    -          -          -          -          -          -           -      -         -             -          -          -          -
current  e.nt he-                              -348     -1.001        361    -1.346      -1.3 3     -3.661      -3.2'  -947        -493            52       -195        541         559
Private drect iwaett                                                   -
3OLtele (es)                                   198        951      1.096      1.632       .2        I. 1009     3.410    328     I3 0          .429        662       -269        354
atfictat                                      1o        266        213         91        120         331         59  1.393     3.050         1.169      2.995      3 .959       893
Priav"                                       173        705        383      1.371      1.266        *78       2.51  -545        -920          -120     -2.036    -2.225         -32
Otber ePi-i ft                                  35        135        119        65        SU1       1.4S8        657    367      -769            *7         10        139       -690
Co,s  in r-eere.m                              116        a5      -1.37        -131       -432    I.15           -77n  -239    1.012          -I.O0       -467       -390       -153
Intemrutie_l ree-r-e  c                        276      1.502      2.5        3.011      3.663      2.&93       3.2713  2.$17    1.675         2.675      3.152      5.542       .728
o0  bic: Cold CafizI  el*-ltl)                51         62         62         6          69         72          73    75         15            7t         in         75         75
1-er_e -    .meh  impe                           1.0        2.0        3.5        3.0        3.2         1.7        1.9   1.5        1.0           1.1        3.6        1.6         3.9
UnsTaL CAlITAL tN 0T53
Crose d.-r-Wete                                611      1.647      2,051      2.9b5      2te00      2.438       4.15G  2.770     2.046         4.116      3.089      3.675      3.82G
Ogfiei-t   ast                                 -          -          -          -          ----
C_em -ie   l ten                              97        14         134        159         29         1           20     12         -             -          -          -          -
DIC                                          0         71         62         46         11         it         is       b         -             -          -          -          -
the^                                         -          -          -          -          -          -           _      -         _             -          _          -          -
other                                      675         63         72         93         1s          2           5      4
een-c.eco._mmeel Ieee.                       573      2.037      1.962      2.506      2.671      2.425      4.1   2.757       2.044         4.116      3.089      2,674      3.629
oficial  Ieort cerdit,                                203        ja1         75         76         90          35  1.375     1.019         1.350        511        331        440
£3U8                                        57        154        I19        133       13         34         258   233         283           565        57         233        136
ethe  _ltitetiel                                        -          -          -          8         24          29    13          -             -          -          -          -
:iate                                      R97      1.950      1.560      2.293      2.40       2.0b7      3.757  1.089       tO5          2.200      7.000      2.000      3.000
Wle   epert cedit (ne)                        (7)        (-323     (-1OD)     (-123)    (-106)       (-125)     (-310) (-192)    (-200)        (-2201     (-2603     1-1212    (-390)
Eatr   dbt
Debt L_teLAedit MC
asebursd di                              2.053      5.atO      7.172      5.926     11.117      13.6bW     15.446 19.159    16.207        17.716     15.27t     u,ioa      22.952
officil 34                                         2.327      2.72       3.035      3.410      3.692      *.552  5.019     6.069          7.615     10.315     12.272     23.158
prite                                    1.199      3.493      4,330      5.b71      7.707      9.94       10.394 11.13U    10.218        10.098      S.062      5,37        -20S
tkdieuree  d.t                               948      2.971      2.525      4.303      2,713      3.117      2.,52  1,967      1.538         1.515      3.48       1.01        501
O4h4 auce e/
Toait lme*ic  pe mte                        s5o       1.,41      1.440      1.595      1.tJ4      2,125      2.1 I.690         3.307         4.396      4,385      5,033      5.599
Interest r                                 1          389        302        367        570        821       9e5  1.751    13.93            1.710      1.941      2.085      2.327
Pa' 7 te as 2   perte                         19.6       15.0       15.8       15.6       16.9        16.9       13.3   13.4      19.3          21.0       15.5       18.9       12.2
agm  iateretL rEt c  u.  teas (Z)                7.1        31i    7.1            7.6        7.1        3.0        3.4  12.7        11.9          11.5       17.9       12.9       14.0
offnicia                                       7.0        .3.        7,0        7.2        7.1        -          -       -         -----
Pri-te                                         7.5        7.5        3.6        9.3        5.7        9.5        _       _         -             _          _          _          -
Aerep mtrity Of me leae (y1ar)                  36.3       15.2       11.3       ISA        15.1        10.5       30.3  13.3       11.2           7.4       10.3       10.3        9.0
Official                                      J1.5       16.5       10.0       15-9       15.1
PrLrvt                                        10.9       10.9        5.7        7.5        -
it e-tciste--
bi  loecld   Me Wolf VW cerdit Cdire_i   Iee  repl         Se). Es t a eOf r et*et-tce   cerdit  d C e'  i- bilteerel
beltecee .
el  lecludin   t g  cen  jntagets of einrcial bLoe.
dI  etCcaI bherig reprted in the bietaricl  attrc. Of pean_te ia _t ceMnetet with  ItCa dbt dta.                                                      8r   IC
Ot  rice .le  e  rri-tien                   ta      aP-n ceit erceud  by  oee -lavie.                                                                April 19. 1933
V  Star 1991. ielude  iecrat peymete em MeO of 3W  r_eec.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Forty Loans fully disbursed                                     1,339.46
916    1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline          59.4      8.05
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0     0.22
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0      0.07
1360    1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose
"hetohija"                   Water                54.0    31.73
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka            Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries           26.0      2.60
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture
Industries           24.0     3.11
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in      Second Power
each Republic                Transmission         80.0    11.06
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka            Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0     7.74
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways             100.0      3.01
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina          Hydro Power           73.0    11.48
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Third Industrial
Credit               40.0     7.90
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0     1.44



- 32 -
AMNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose            Bank Undisbursed
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       3.90
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka            Fourth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0        1.53
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       0.71
1621    1978   Privredna Banka               Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                     Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      31.20
1673    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Heze-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                148.0       41.95
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka              Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0      33.14
1768    1979   Port of Bar                   Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0      33.63
1769    1979   Railway Organization          Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                ilitation-
Railways             14.0       7.61
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka            Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0      56.11
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                125.0       76.42
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Prist:na       Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0      46.55
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0      11.14
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka            Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit              20.0       19.31
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka               Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit              10.0        2.80



- 33 -
ANNEX LI
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Iumber  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
1951    1980   Investbanka                  Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0       74.63
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways               34.0      26.22
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0       83.22
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Agriculture           80.0       67.04
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vocovod                      Kosovo Water Supply  41.0       29.22
2132    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial       33.0       32.51
Credit
2133    1982   Stopanska Banka Skopje e   Sixth Industrial        33.0       32.51
Credit
2136    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture            35.0       34.48
2161 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6         34.60
2233 1/ 1983   Regional Work Organiza-      Tuzla Water Supply   30.0        30.00
tion KO1PRED                and Environment
Total (less cancellation)                              3,214.46    898.84
of which has been repaid                                597.21
Total now outstanding                                  2,617.25
Amount sold                            9.2
ot whic.h: Amount repaid              9.2
Total now held by Bank                                 2,617.25
lotal undisbursed                                                   898.84
1/ bigned but not yet effective.



- 34 4
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENI OF IFC JNVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                        Type of          Amount in US$ million
'Year            Obligor                     Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International lnvestment             Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation        -      2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                        Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     haribor (TAM)/Klockner-Huuboldt   Industry            9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
19bO     benz A.G.                           Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                        Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira          Pulp and Paper   70.9       -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel    10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant      10.0      -      10.0
1975   kMK Zenica                           Steel             50.0      -      50.0
1977   Erikom RO Industrija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing        4.0     2.4      6.4
1977   Ivornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                          Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism           21.0     -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery         18.7      -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial          Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises      30.3     -       30.3
1982   Igalo                                Physical
Medicine
Center           16.5    -        16.5
1982   Industrija za automobilski           Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto)        & Accessories    11 3    -         11.3
Total Gross Commitments                               315.7    11.8   327.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                            173.5     5.2   178.7
Total commitments held by IFC                         142.2     6.6   148.8
Total lnaisbursed held by IFC                          38.7     0.8    39.5



- 35-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1983)
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Etfective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles,
organizational change, etc.). In December 1979, the Covernment requested and
the Bank eventually agreed to divide the loan into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Vojvodina
ana Serbia are now under construction. The only outstanding major contract
still to be awarded before the current closing date concerns Butangas'
telecommunications and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
systems. Depending upon early contracting of the SCADA system a further and
tinal extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional DevelopmentProject - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US320.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982; (account
lett open).
After some initial delays, the project is progressing
satisfactorily.  Major works still to be executed  ;e the Vrutci dam and
water supply distribution and sewerage network in Titovo Uzice. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1982 (after two extensions) but the account remains
open to allow disbursement in respect of expendicures under contracts signed
before the closing date.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date;
December 31, 1982; (account left open).
Construction works are proceeding well and the project is
substantially completed. The loan was closed on 12/31/£2 but account remains
open to allow final disbursements.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US054.0 Million Loan of February 3.
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progress is about three years behind schedule
and the Closing Date has been postponed initially by one year to
December 31, 1983. Contract for ICB procurement of G.R.P. pipes was signed
on January 22, 1983; however, it was necessary to reduce the scope of supply
to conform to the tender. Modified contract is expected to be validated on
April 8, 1983. The single remaining ICB contract for automatic regulation
equipment is expected by mid-May, 1983. Based on current progress, all LCB
contracts should be awarded by July 31, 1983. Irrigation system for about
1,200 ha will be ready by 1984. Completion of the total system is now
planned for December 31, 1984, which will fit in with current plans for land
consolidation.             -
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is substantially completed. The winery operations are
completed and operational. Farm center construction is complete and farm
roads are nearing completion. The completed irrigation system is supplying
2,014 ha under vineyards and orchards. The loan is 90% disbursed. Due to
high rates of local inflation costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by
about 60%.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-industry facilities have now come into force and
four of the seven sub-projects are completed.  Contracts hae been signed
and approved for the remaining sub-projects. All individual sector funds
have been completed and disbursed. The loan is 87% disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Iransmission: US$80.0 Million Loan of July 1., 1977;
Effective Date; January 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed with a delay of about two
years ana the closing aate has been extended by six months to 6/30/83, in
order to allow full loan disbursement. The loan is practically fully
counnitted. The Borrowers have been advised that there would be no further
extension oi the closing date.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit; US$75.0 Million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: August 31, 1983.
The loan is fully committed and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 90% of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Government's recent stabilization ueasures
however, exceotional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
consequently the closing date has been extended a second time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to dishurse against purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway; US100 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
cotal USp 97.0 million.  The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Remedial actions will be agreed upon in the context of the
proposed loan for a Sixth Railway Project.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power; US$73 Million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since December 1982. Part B, originally not financed
by the Bank (Mostar Dam), however, has been delayed by problems with the
site geology and funding. The technical problems have been solved and the
detailed designs of the Mostar dam and power plant are now available.
Regarting the funding, a supplemental Bank loan is now under consideration.
If action on this loan is taken before June 30, 1983, Part B of the Project
could be completed by December 1987, assuming that funding for the local
costs is forthcoming.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan lbll Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date;  hovember 16, 1978; Closing Date:  April 30, 1983.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates due to late approval of two large "special subprojects" and
changes in the originally approved equipment lists and often incomplete
withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit Department of the borrower
kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) continues to be weak, especially in terms of
proper project appraisal and supervision. This matter is being focussed
upon through frequent supervision. Also, institutional improvements will be
a major component of a proposed new loan to KBP.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 Million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well aheaa of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behina appraisal estimates. The closing dates for all
three Loans have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1983.
Loan 1616 hacedonia Strezevo Irrigation:  US$82 Xillion Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date; February 14, 1979; Closing Date;
September 30, 1982; (account left open).
Project construction has been substantially completed. Ihe loan
account has been kept open in order to enable disbursements against
contracts tor which commitments have been made prior to September 30, 1982.
$81.29 million disbursed as of March 31, 1983.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries; US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The financing
problem and inadequate progress in the individual sector has been resolved
and specific action programs have been agreed with the borrower and the
implementing agency. As of harch 31, 1983 about 93 percent of the loan has
been committed and 45 percent disbursed. Given the stage of overall project
implementation, the most likely completion date would be December 1984.



- 39 -
AIlNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Froject now faces delays of about 15 months because of reduced
roac expenditures now planned by Government. Revised investment plans
preparen by all participants. All links are now committed. Works will now
extend to early 1984 in Kosovo, Vojvodina, Bosnia and Macedonia. Only
Montenegro has completed its program according to the original schedule.
Loan closing date has been postponed to September 30, 1984.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage; US$51 Million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Decisions to awarn contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion ot civil works have been finalized. Project management problems and
iuadequate funds together with import restrictions had caused procurement
delays. Revised financing plan with assurance of funds has now been
prepared and import restrictions for the project have eased. Studies on
sub-surface arainage had a delayed start. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing. The loan
is 35X disbursed.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 Million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date; April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is currently about two years behind schedule,
primarily due to delays in preparation of designs and contract documents for
civil works stemming from more rigid design criteria to withstand
earthquakes and from the lack of adequately experienced project and support
staff. Bank missions have repeatedly emphasized need to strengthen staff,
and port management has recently taken remedial action. Contracts for civil
works are in progress and should be completed by about May/June 1983 or
shortly thereafter. Bids for workshop equipment and for new tugboats have
been received and some contracts awarded by PBWO. Deliveries of equipment
*           and tugboats in early 1984 appears likely.  The original closing date of
December 31, 1982 has been postponed until June 30, 1984 to allow for longer
than anticipatea delivery period for remaining Bank financed items.
Loan 1769 hontenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 Million Loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $6.39 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as a result of complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel. The Borrower's request for an
extension of the closing date is under consideration.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit; US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Progress in commitments in the social sector is very slow. In the
individual sector, 93% of funds are committed, while in the social sector
only 41% is committed.  The agroindustry subprojects have still to be
identified in some Republics; and a few approved processing facilities are
behind schedule. The progress in physical implementation in the individual
sector is good. The loan is about 35% disbursed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank. The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
reviewed. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays arising from shortage of local
tunds, project completion will be about 18 months behind schedule. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to June 30, 1984. Further
extension of one year might be necessary and would be considered on the
basis of project implementation in accordance with a revised schedule.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit;  5.0, $30.0, t20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984.
Loans 1910 (PBS) and 1912 (SBS) are being committed rapidly, while
commitments under Loans 1909 (KBP) and 1911 (IBT) are behind schedule.
Commitments by KBP and IBT started late due to external factors, but have
picked up rapidly and is expected to be completed within the currently
stipulated commitment period.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II; $87 Million Loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1986.
Eighty-five percent of the loan proceeds are committed.
Withdrawals have commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is
due to procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds. This has been taken
up with the Government in order to resolve the issue. As for the physical
implementation of the Project, progress is very good. In the individual
sector, about 800 livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards
are expected to be completed by the end of 1982, while 11 out of 14
agro-industrial facilities are under construction, of which 5 are likely to
become operational in the Spring 1983. Progress under the irrigation
component continues to be unsatisfactory. Action plans for support services
approved by the Bank and implementation is underway.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million Loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
After a slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
(SS&TT) equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Upon request of
the Borrower the Bank has agreed to a reallocation of loan funds which will
become surplus because of favorable rec-lts on the SS&TT contract and the
devaluation of the Dinar. The surplus funds will finance the acquisition of
four diesel motor trains for which a contract will shortly be awarded.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 Million Loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
About 25% of the Loan amount has yet to be committed and the
Borrower, KBP, is behind schedule in hiring requisite support staff. Six
agro-industry investors have signed construction and equipment installation
contracts and work has started. The ;nvestors for two other agro-industry
subprojects expect within the month to finalize contracts according to the
bid evaluation reports, after considerable delays due to the investors'
requests to change processing capacity or product line. The four remaining
agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into consideration
changes in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of 2,000 ha of
plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to seven social
sector investors covering about 1,600 ha for vineyards and orchards. For
the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans for 300 ha of
vineyards. For the Groundwater studies component, the consultants have
completed the detailed terms of reference and cost estimates and started
work on hydro-geologic investigations.
Loan 2039 hacedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 Million Loan of
July 23, 1981; Effective Date: January 6, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule. The social sector vineyard (1,450 ha) and
orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store component (15,000 tons)
were fully committed. Individual sector investments are also ahead of
schedule. Although nearly all feasibility studies have been completed, the
small-scale irrigation component is behind schedule due to SBS appraisal
bottlenecks and to problems with generating the 20% local contribution to be
provided by the Communes.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply: ¢41 Million Loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date; April 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Overall construction
progress has been good and the quality of construction is high. Contracts
for all major components of the project have been awarded.  Due to several
contributory factors revised total project cost has been reduced which will
result in a savings of US¢15.0 million from the Bank loan.
Loans 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Project: *33 Million Loan
Each Loans of August 31, 1982; Effective Date: November 23, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 28, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily. $0.98 million disbursed as of
harch 31, 1983.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural Development Project; $35 Million Loan
-   of May 4, 1982; Effective Date:   November 23, 1982; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
This loan became effective on November 23, 1982. Bid Evaluation
Reports for all six agro-industrial processing facilities have been cleared
by the Bank. About 402 of the Contract Documents have been received while
others are awaited by end April 1983. Construction of about 60% of the
Popovo Polje Irrigation Project has been completed.
Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage: $34.6 Million Loan of May 27, 1982;
Effective Date; April 29, 1983; Closing Date; September 30,
1987.
The loan is not yet effective. The new Date of Effectiveness is
set for April 29, 1983. Federal ratification and legal opinion are awaited.
Loan 2233 Tuzla Water Supply and Sewerage; $30.0 Million Loan of
January 25, 1983; Effective Date: June 10, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
The Project was appraised in March/April 1982. Loan documents
were signed on February 10, 1983. The loan is not yet effective.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project                  4 years
(b) Agency wbich prepared project                  JUGEL and power
organizations in
the republics and
provinces with
the assistance of
consultants.
(c) Project first presented to Bank                1971
.d) First Bank mission to review project           1980
Ce) Departure of Appraisal Mission                 November 3, 1981
(f) Completion of Negotiations                     March 31, 1983
(g) Pianned Date of Effectiveness                  November 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III; Special Conditions
A.     Effectiveness
(a)    that all measures relating to the first tariff adjustment over
the five-year period during which tariffs are to be adjusted
to LRMC have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 57);
(b)    all agreements, approvals, consents or decisions from the
respective regions and other relevant organizations regarding
the preparation of the investment plan (para. 39); tariff
action (para. 57); submission of financial data and audits of
organizations otber than the Borrowers (para. 63); and the
provisions of funds to meet any shortfalls (para. 51) have
been given or made in substance satisfactory to the Bank.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c)    satisfactory amounts for local financing of the project,
including cost overruns, have been secured (para. 51).
Otber
Borrowers to excbange views with the Bank annually before finalizing
investment program for following year; investment program to be
guided by principle of achieving.economic optimization of investment
cboices (para. 39).



IBOD 14661
A     STRIA                                                       '6'                            *0'                                            SU
I%           Podla                                                                                                   - Boioui  \   5   j  Pasz
<   i    \    Lu                         H                U R Z F G O V /  N  G A R Y
0 v E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0      *h
bil.                                                                                                            fAL' '\   1  \      IAOA
1-11,  OW   ob                                              bat'co   k,                                           u W  \
THIR POWER TRANSMISSION   AOE T- r             t         7D 4  Rt  OMNIA
nu -oo)%..       Novi Sad
Obr a         bea                            -.        ,#Dera         rv
KragujevocA                      '
380 kV TRANSMISSION  SYSTEM                                                       R :<#na wnoRi, 
Pristina )          (BULGARIA
220 kV ironsmini;on lino               ,A 8^rt                                                            \ 
*    Substations< °r                                                                                            \    ts
- _    _ Roputlic boundaries                                                      X                                       ..
Autonomous province boundreis                                    Tito                                    x   Skopje
-       Internotatnal bounodaries                    A driatic
MilwaoiC0      s   1      0 0    150..         M
-   -                                        S  er o                  2                ,)  h1 .4~~~~~~~  M    C  E  C       A
i0  s   sto i            1;                                                                    ." ino 
- *  I 0L t A N I A
6..~... ~. - A   A   4.  , a. -, .% eq W .  uG  R  E  E  C  E



