Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 419 3-YU
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 29, 1983
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Dinar (Din)
Din 1.00=100 Para               US40.0159 (January 1, 1983)
US31.00                         63.00 Din (January 1, 1983)
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW                              Kilowatt (1,000 Watt)
MW                              Megawatt (1,000 Kilowatt)
kWh                             Kilowatt hour
GWh                             Gigawatt hour (106 kWh)
TWh                             Terawatt hour (109 kWh)
kV                              Kilovolt (1,000 Volts)
kVA                             Kilovolt - ampere
MVA                             Megavolt - ampere (103 kVA)
km                              Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
FISCAL YEAR
Calendar Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON4YMS
AGC                            Automatic Generation Control
BOAL                           Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL                           Composite Organization of Associated Labor
CRT                            Cathrode-Ray Tube
DATS                           Data Acquisition and Transmission Subsystem
DCN                            Data Communication Netwqork
ECU                            European Currency Unit
EIB                            European Investment Bank
EMS                            Energy Mianagement System
Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine            Composite Organization for Power in Bosnia-Herzegovina
Elektrovojvodina               Composite Organization for Power in Vojvodina
Elektroprivreda
Cruie Gore                     Work Organization for Generation and transmission in
Montenegro
ELektroprivreda
Kosova                         Composite Organization for Power in Kosovo
Elektrostopanstvo Na
M4akedonija                    Composite Organization for Power in Macedonia
FDC                            Federal Dispatch Center
ICD                            Intelligent Communicati.on Device
JUGEL                          Zajednica Jugoslovenske Elektroprivrede (Union of
Yugoslav Electric Power Industry)
LFC/AGC                        Load Frequency Controli'Automatic Generation Control
LI                             Local Interface device
OPS                            Operation Planning Syst:em
PDC                            Provincial Dispatch Center
RDC                            Republican Dispatch Center
RTCS                           Real-Time Control System
RTU                            Remote Terminal Unit
SCADA                          Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
TCS                            Telecommunication System
UCPTE                          Union pour la Coordination de la Production et du
Transport de l'Electric.ite
LlNIPEDE                       Union Internationale de Producteurs et Distributeurs
d'Electricite
WOAL                           Work Organization of Associated Labor
Zajednica Electro-
privrenih Organizacija
Hrvatske                       Union of Croatian Electric Power Industry
Zdruzena Elektro
privreda - Beograd             Composite Organization for Generation and Transmission
in Serbia
Elektrogospo
darstvo Slovenije              Composite Organization for Power in Slovenia
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPC)RT OF THE
THIRD POWER TRANSMISS][ON PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR ..........................................                  1
A.  Energy Resources .......................................                  1
Overview ........i.1
Coal and Lignite ......................................                1
Hydropower ............................................                I
Oil and Gas ...........................................                2
Nuclear Fuel ..........................................                2
B.  The Power Subsector ....................................                 3
Organization of the Power Subsector ....              ...............  3
The Role of JUGEL .....................................                3
Bank Participation in the Power Subsector and
Objectives  ...........................................               4
Electricity Consumption 1970-1980 .....................                5
Electricity Supply 1970-1980 ..........................                6
Comparison of Forecast and Actual Supply and
Demand 1976-1980 .....................................                8
Forecast for the Period 1981-1990 .....................                9
Electricity Pricing ...................................                9
Planning ..............................................    10
II.  THE PROJECT ENTITIES ..........................                             12
Borrowers and Executing Agencies ......            ................   12
Coordination of Project Implementation .....             ...........   12
Coordination of Operation .........           ....................    13
Management ............................................   14
III.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT .......              .......................    15
The Program for a National Electric Power Management
System of Interconnected Operations .             .................   15
Project Selection and Content ........           .................   18
Project Cost .......................................                  21
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Posada (Engineer), C Schroeder
and A. Leoni (Financial Analysts), I. Elwan (Economist), and A. Shapiro
(Information Systems Specialist), assisted by R. Dickenson (Consultant
in Telecommunications) and J.D. Hutchins (Consultant Financial Analyst)



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page
Project Financing Plan, Amount of Loan and
Co-Financing Arrangements ............................  23
Project Implementation and Operation .....   .............  24
Procurement .....................                        26
Retroactive Financing ......       ...............   26
Loan Allocation and Disbursement ........ ..............  27
Environmental Impact ..................................  27
Project Risks .........................................  27
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ....................................   28
V. FINANCE .........                                              29
Past Financial Performance and Present Position   ......   29
Future Financial Performance and Objectives .... ......   31
Accounting System, Financial Statements,
Revaluation of Assets ...............................   32
Audit  ................................................  32
Insurance  ............................................  33
VI.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ........   34
AlNNEXES
Annex 2.1   Borrowers/Project Entities - Organization Charts
(January 1, 1981)
Annex 3.1   Technical Details of Project
- Attachment  1: Hierarchical Structure of Yugoslav EMS
- Attachment  2:  Operations Planning Svstem Configuration
Schematic
- Attachment  3:  Simplified Block Diagram of Central
Operations Planning Computer Facility
- Attachment 4: Principle Structure of Republic/Province
Remote Terminal System
- Attachment  5: Operating States of Power System
- Attachment  6: Real Time Systems Overall Configuration
- Attachment  7:  Real Time Computer System Configuration Schematic
- Attachment  8: Data Communication Network Configuration Schematic
- Attachment  9:  Functional Structure of Intelligent Communications
Device (ICD)
- Attachment 10:  Plan of Super-Groups Allocation
- Attachment 11:  Total Manpower Requirement for EMS
- Attachiment 12:  Summary of Training Component Program
- Attachment 13:  Stage I - Hardware Configurations for the EMS
Annex 3.2  The Overall Project Management Organization for EMS
Annex 3.3  Yugoslav EMS Project Management Team Structure



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
Annex 3.4   Procurement Schedule
Annex 3.5   Construction Schedule
Annex 3.6   CPM Diagram of Main Activities
Annex 3.7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
Annex 3.8   Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan per Borrower
Annex 3.9   Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Sources of Fund
Annex 3.10  Estimated Project Disbursement Schedule Per Borrower
Annex 3.11  Comparison of Proposed Disburse.ment Profile with Actual
Disbursements for Power Transmission I and II Projects.
Annex 4.1   Return on Investment
Annex 4.2   Assumption for the Calculation of Rate of Return
Annex 5.1   Actual and Projected Financial Statements of the Borrowers
Annex 6     Documents Available in the Project File
MAP S
IBRD 16668
IBRD 16669
IBRD 16670






I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Energy Resources
Overview
1.01     Yugoslavia's indigenous energy resources are mainly low-grade coal
and hydropower. Small reserves of oil and gas also exist which provided about
50% of the country's total consumption of non-solid hydrocarbons (1981);
however, the output of these reserves is expected to decline rapidly and
unless greater emphasis is placed by the authorities on petroleum exploration
and development, the dependence of the economy on imported energy would
increase steadily over the next ten years. Few reserves of oil shale are
known to exist. Some uranium is presently being mined and processed whicio
covers the fuel requirement of the country's first nuclear power station.
Yugoslavia's renewable energy resources are mainly in the form of solar
energy, agriculture residue, animal wastes, and some geothermal springs of
relatively low and medium temperatures. Although the authorities intend to
intensify the utilization of these resources, plans are still at an early
stage of development, and consequently, their contribution to the overall
supply of energy in the foreseeable future is not expected to be significant.
The major constraints facing Yugoslavia's energy sector are being addressed in
a sector report: Yugoslavia: Prospects for the Future Development of Energy
which is currently under preparation.
Coal and Lignite
1.02     Yugoslavia's commercially exploitable reserves of coal, mainly of low
calorific value, are estimated at 26 billion tons, with lignite constituting
about 93%, brown coal 6% and, hard coal less than 1%. In terms of heat
content, and excluding the hydropower resources, coal and lignite represent
about 86% of the commercially exploitable domestic energy resources. Most of
the lignite deposits are suitable for large-scale open-pit mining. However,
since the lignite is of poor quality, its transpo:rt over long distances is
uneconomic, and consequently, the only economic use for the exploitation for
the generation of electricity in mouth-of-mine type power plants.
Hydropower
1.03     The hydropower potential is estimated at 74 TWhh located at about 400
sites in 25 river basins and catchment areas I/. The technically
exploitable potential is 64 TWh, of which some 27 TWh (42%) has been
developed. An additional 3.4 TWh is expected to be developed by 1990.
Following the 1973 oil crisis, the federal authorities outlined, in 1976, an
energy plan which aimed at intensified developmeni: of domestic energy
resources (hydropotential and lignite) to reduce the imports of oil and gas.
As a result, Yugoslavia's program for the development of hydropower was
accelerated. However, as the program develops and the potentially economic
sites are exploited, there is the risk that some uneconomic sites may also be
developed in an effort by the republican and provincial authorities to achieve
more and more energy self-sufficiency. In order :to reduce the risk associated
1/ Assuming average hydrological conditions.



-2-
with the development of the remaining hydro potential, an inventory of the
sites is needed to allow for their ranking according to economic merit. The
hydropower potential was surveyed by the local authorities and JUGEL in the
late sixties 1/; the results of the survey need reassessment on the basis of
sound economic methodology and ranked in terms of their expected contribu-
tion to the national supply of energy. Following the appraisal of a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan and the Government's recently stated objective; as
spelled out in a draft Letter of Development Policy, to complete a special
review of the energy investment program with the view of reorienting the
investment program toward priority activities, it was agreed during loan
negotiations of the proposed Project to widen the scope of the electric energy
investment program review from what was originally envisaged, a reassessment
of the hydroelectric potential ranking, to an annual review of the subsector's
investment program. It was stipulated furthermore that such investment
program must be guided by the principle of achieving economic optimization of
investment choices.
Oil and Gas
1.04     The geological reserves of crude oil are estimated at 298 million
tons, with proven recoverable reserves of 70 million tons, representing 15
years' supply at the 1981 rate of production. These are located mainly in the
Pannonian basin in the northern part of the country. Past exploration, which
was extremely modest, of the other main potential oil-bearing area, the
Dinaric region on the western coast, including the Adriatic offshore, has not
yielded any commercial discoveries, but the indications are promising. Very
little effort and resources have been devoted to exploration, and to date,
Yugoslavia suffers from the absence of an overall plan for exploration which
would ensure both coordination between republics and provinces, and a more
systematic approach to the assessment of the country's geology. This
shortcoming would be dealt with under a Bank project for petroleum exploration
and development presently being identified. The overall objective of the
Project would be to provide the means for mobilizing foreign exchange and
attracting the participation of international oil firms in the implementation
of a national petroleum exploration program.
1.05     Geological reserves of natural gas, mostly in the same locations as
the known oil reserves, are put at about 127 billion m3, with proven
reserves of 50 billion m3, representing 20 years' supply at the 1981 rate of
production. Recently, new off-shore reserves were discovered; however,
because of the shortage of foreign exchange the development of these new
reserves has been delayed. The project for petroleum exploration (para. 1.04)
would also provide funds and the expertise needed for the development of
off-snore gas.
Nuclear Fuel
1.06     Uranium reserves are estimated at 36,500 tons U308, but this is
on the basis of incomplete exploration. Of the total, only some 10,200 tons
could be developed in the near future, sufficient for about 1,500 MW of
nuclear generating capacity operating for 30 years at 6,000 hours/year. The
first mine is currently providing uranium for the first nuclear power plant
(664 MW) recently commissioned.
I/ A report on this subject was submitted to the Bank to fulfill a condition
of effectiveness for Loan 836-YU.



-3-
B. The Power Subsector
Organization of the Power Subsector
1.07     The organization of the Yugoslav power subsector mirrors the federal
and decentralized political structure of the country and in its present form
has been in existence since 1974. The basic decision-making units are called
"Basic Organizations of Associated Labor" (BOAL). These are the smallest
technically identifiable units that can function independently. A power plant
is typically operated by a single BOAL. These units can be integrated into
"Work Organizations of Associated Labor" (WOAL) through self-management
agreements and may include units concerned with power plants as well as
transmission systems, research and development, and other services.
Distribution utilities are organized separately but along similar lines. In
most of the eight republics and provinces 1/ the: WOAL have organized
themselves into "Composite Organizations of Associated Labor" (COAL) which are
at the top of the pyramidal organizational set-up for the power subsector.
All the existing WOALs and COALs are required by law to be members of the
Union of Yugoslav Power Industry (JUGEL). JUGEL's obligatory membership at
the beginning of 1982, therefore, comprised the approximately 100 such
organizations in the republics and provinces, iricluding some lignite mines
engaged in the production of fuel for thermal power stations. In addition,
there were a dozen voluntary members in the form of various research
institutes, engineering and consulting organizations involved in the power
subsector. While JUGEL coordinates the major aspects of power generation and
transmission in the country, it has no executive power over its
organizations. The republican/provincial power organizations and their
customers form the power subsector's "Communities of Interest" which are
responsible for determining long-term development programs and their financing
including the consumers' financial contributions to system expansion, and
tariffs.
1.08     In keeping with the overall decentralization of economic management,
tne Federal Government's role in the planning and operation of the power
subsector is limited. It is exercised mainly through the Federal Committee
for Energy and Industry (FCEI), a branch of the Federal Executive Council.
Its main interventions are confined to the formulation of broad guidelines in
accordance with its national energy policy. The Federal Government does not
prepare plans as to how this overall electric power policy should be
implei.ented; this is left to the initiative of the republics and provinces.
The objective of the power development plan at the level of the individual
republic provinces is to maintain a balance of capacities and energy within
each republic from plants which might be located within the republic or in
another republic but which are jointly financed by more than one republic.
Such regional plans are consolidated by JUGEL to form the national power
development program.
The Role of JUGEL
1.09     Although each republic and province has its own power industry, and
each of these is required by law to supply the power requirements of consumers
within its service area, in doing so, however, they may not operate
1/ There are six republics viz. Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia,
Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia; and two autonomous provinces viz. Kosovo
and Vojvodina.



-4-
independenitly of each other, since they form part of an interconnected system
at the national level which should function as an integrated unit in the
interest of the whole country. JUGEL's essential function is to coordinate
the operation and development of this Yugoslav interconnected power system "as
a single technologically integrated system of interest for the whole
country".l/ Coordinated operation of the interconnected system is based on
the "Self-Management Agreement for Joint Operation" 2/, which provides for
dispatch management by dispatch centers in the republics and provinces,
subject to coordination by a federal dispatch center operated by JUGEL. From
this dispatch center, JUGEL presently controls frequency regulation,
international exchanges, and the integrity of the interconnected Yugoslav
power system. JUGEL's coordinating role in the development of the power
system is based on the "Self-Management Agreement on the Coordination of
Development Plans", which was made under a requirement of the 1978 JUGEL
law 3/. Under these two agreements, JUGEL has quite wide-ranging
responsibilities for the preparation of the annual generation program for the
interconnected system, the preparation of short and long-term electric power
balances, harmonizing the development plans of the republics and provinces,
and presenting the resulting programs and plans to FCEI and the Federal
Chamber of Economy; it also represents the interests of the Yugoslav power
industry vis-a-vis other agencies and institutions.
1.10     Since JUGEL has no executive authority over its member organizations,
it has to secure decisions through a complicated system of voting or, on
important matters, through consensus. In the event of conflict between the
least-cost operation of the interconnected power system, financial objectives
and the interest of individual BOAL, the least-cost objective is supposed to
prevail. If there is a fundamental disagreement amongst the republics and
provinces on the future supply of electricity, the Arbitration Department of
JUGEL is required to mediate. As an ultimate sanction, the Federal Executive
Council has reserve powers to ensure the technological integrity of the
Yugoslav power system should the self-management agreements required by law
not be concluded, or should JUGEL fail to discharge its responsibilities.
Bank Participation in the Power Subsector and Objectives
1.11     The Bank's main objective in lending for the power subsector has been
to assist its integration through the development of a national 380 kV
transmission grid to overcome the hitherto limited inter-republican bulk power
transfer capability. Loans 836-YU 4/ and 1469-YU (Transmission I and II)
were aimed at furthering this consolidation of the power subsector through
integrated operation and coordinated planning as a consequence of establishing
a national transmission grid.5/ The proposed third transmission project
1/ Law on Association in JUGEL, 1978, Article 1.
2/ The original version was made in 1971, but this was revised in 1981.
3/ Law on Association in the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry, 1978.
4/ Project completed June 30, 1979. PCR dated May 29, 1981.
5/ Another loan (1561-YU) finances a project involving a cascade of three
dams and power plants on the Neretva river in Bosnia-Hercegovina, as well
as power lines and substations to connect to existing transmission
facilities. The project component financed by the Bank was successfully
completed in early-1982.



-5-
loan would considerably strengthen this integration through a national
electric power management system, which in effect requires the republican and
provincial power sectors to accept coordinated operation from a central
dispatch center run by JUGEL with all its economic and technical
consequences. It is hoped that this coordinated operation would also lead to
better coordinated planning of power generation expansion programs through the
sheer weight of economic advantages gained by joint load dispatching.
1.12     Although the First Power Transmission Project was two years late in
completion, it was completed roughly as planned and in accordance with sound
engineering practice. In the process, a great deal of basic standardization
of equipment and practices has been achieved, and a great deal of technical
expertise has been gained in 380 kV planning and construction, which prove
useful in implementing the Second Power Transmission Project, currently
sciheduled for completion in late 1983. However, the Bank was only partly
successful in its institution-building effort because it attempted, perhaps
prematurely, to encourage the emergence of a strong national coordinating
institution in the power subsector (para. 1.10) which, while desirable from a
technical point of view, was difficult to achieve within the framework of
Yugoslavia's decentralized constitutional and so,io-economic system.
Nevertheless, some degree of operation coordination has been achieved, indeed
in large measure by these two power transmission projects (para. 1.09). Major
changes, in the direction of greater coordination, are likely to come only
with the fully integrated operation of the 380 kV system and load dispatch on
a federal basis.
Electricity Consumption 1970-1980
1.13     Yugoslavia's consumption of electricity has more than doubled during
the period 1970-1980, from 26.2 TWh to 61.7 TWh, representing an average
annual rate of growth of about 8.6%. During the ten-year period the real
annual rate of growth of GDP was about 5.7% resulting in an average elasticity
of electricity consumption to GDP of about 1.5. The faster growth of
electricity consumption relative to GDP largely reflects the increase in the
intensity of electricity use from 101 to 134 kWh per 1,000 dinars of GDP
brought about by the increased consumption of the industrial sector which rose
from 165 kWh/1000 dinars in 1970 to 198 kWh/1000 dinars in 1980 1/.
1.14     Since 1970 the pattern of electricity consumption in Yugoslavia has
undergone some changes. The industrial sector remained dominant, among all
other consumer categories; however, its relative share declined. By contrast,
the share of the household consumers, the second largest consumer category,
has increased from 27.5% in 1970 to 32.1% in 1980. Moreover, the shares of
the transport and agriculture sectors have also increased, while the share of
other has decreased. These changes are illustrated in the following
tabulation:
1/ Output expressed in 1972 prices.



Electricity Consumption by Consumer
Categories - 1970 to 1980
(% of total sales)
1970       1975        1980
Industry                    58.5        56.7        59.5
Households                  27.5        30.5        28.8
Transport                    1.8         2.2         2.1
Agriculture                  0.8         1.3         1.2
Othiers                     11.4         9.3         8.4
1.15     Total electricity consumption continues to be unevenly distributed
between republic and autonomous provinces. As shown in the Table below,
Kosovo accounted for 3% of total consumption in 1980 compared to 23% for
Serbia. Since 1970, the combined share of Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia, which
are the major consumers of electricity, has decreased from 66% to 60% in
1980. The three republics are expected to continue accounting for the bulk of
future electricity consumption in the country.
Electricity Consumption by Republic/Province
1970                               1980
Consumption per                    Consumption per
Capita                             Capita
Ratio to                           Ratio to
% Total              National       % Total              National
Consumption      kWh   Average      Consumption    kWh   Average
Bosnia &
Herzegovina        12           711      0.66           14         1670      0.73
Croatia              23          1134      1.06           22         2450      1.07
Macedonia             8          1138      1.06            8         2210      0.97
Montenegro            2           981      0.91            5         3890      1.70
Serbia               22           882      0.82           23         2120      0.93
Slovenia             21          2617      2.44           15         4290      1.87
Kosovo                3           611      0.57            3          830      0.36
Vojvodina             9          1035      0.96           10         2640      1.15
Yugoslavia          100          1073      1.00          100         2290      1.00
Source:  JUGEL and mission calculations.
Electricity Supply 1970-1980
1.16     Total installed generating capacity more than doubled over 1970-1980,
from 6,879 MW to 14,079 MW. Virtually all the increases occurred in the inter-
connected system, where capacity rose from 6,107 MW to 13,093 MW.  Autogenera-
tion only increased by about 214 MW, from 772 to 986 MW. As a result, the



share of the interconnected system in total installed capacity rose from 89%
to 93%. Over the 10 year period there was a mar'ked increase in the pace at
which capacity increased; the average annual rate of installation increased
from only 430 MW in 1971-1975 to 940 MW in 1976-1980. This increase reflects
to a large extent the shift by the members of JUGEL to the installation of
larger size generating plants to capture the operating economies associated
with these plants.
1.17     Nearly two thirds (4,558 MW) of the additional JUGEL capacity was
thermal plant and only one third hydro (2,428 MW).  Over 70% of the new
thermal capacity (3,415 MW) uses indigenous solid fuel, all of it
lignite-based except for 110 MW of coal-fired plant. The balance comprised
964 MW of oil-fired steam plant and 242 MW of combustion turbines. The
emphasis on lignite-fired plant was in accordance with the Government's
declared policy of restricting electricity generation to the use of domestic
energy resources which resulted in an increase in the share of lignite power
plants in total thermal capacity from 54% to 65%. However, this was more than
offset by the decline in the share of coal-fired plant from 29% to 12%,
reducing the share of the capacity based on solid fuels from 83% to 77%.
There was a corresponding increase in the share of oil-fired generating
capacity from 12% to 18%, resulting in increased dependence on imported fuel,
wnich runs counter to the declared policy (para. 1.03).
1.18     The increased dependence on imported fuels resulted from the
shortages of funds which delayed the completion of some of the relatively
large coal-based power plants. PEradoxically, this delay in completing large
coal-based power plants forced those republics and provinces in which
hydropotential and lignite resources are modest, to construct oil-fired power
plants (Croatia, Macedonia and Vojvodina).
1.19     The transmission network has been extended and improved in line with
the expansion of system generating capacity. Until the early 1960's, the
basic transmission network was 110 kV.   This was replaced by 220 kV, which
remained the main transmission voltage until 1975.  Since then, the 380 kV
network has been evolving as the main transmission system. At present, it
connects most of the main generating plants and Load centers (Map IBRD 16668).
The 380 kV net-,ork would be strengthened and its efficiency improved with the
full implementction of the segments covered under the Transmission II Loan,
and with the pr2posed Project.
1.20     The 3'0 kV system has practically eliminated bottlenecks in
transmission, and increased the overall security of the power system. This
increased the volume of inter-republican exchanges significantly, which rose
from 9.7 TWi in 1976 to 15.8 TWh in 1980. In addition, transmission losses
were reduced from 5.4% of energy sent out in 1970 to 4.7% in 1975, and since
then, they have stabilized around 4%.
1.21     An added benefit of the 380 kV network is that it has permitted the
Yugoslav system to start capturing some of the economies of scale in
generation, by the installation of larger units than would otherwise be
feasible if the different parts of the system were operated independently.
There has been a general trend towards the installation of larger generating
sets. The first thermal units of 100 MW were introduced from 1965 onwards,
the first 200 MW sets from 1970 and the first 300 MW from 1976. Some
republics and provinces have cooperated in the construction of power plants



- 8 -
with units up to 300 MW for mutual benefit (e.g. Croatia with Bosnia, and also
with Slovenia; Serbia, Slovenia, and Vojvodina with Kosovo). However, a
fairly cautious approach to the adoption of larger unit sizes is evident,
suggesting that full advantage is not being taken of the opportunities offered
by the integration of the Yugoslav power system to capture fully possible
economies of scale. It is expected that with the new agreements on the
operations and planning of the power subsector (para. 1.09), and with the
completion of the proposed Project, greater economies of scale will be
achieved. As the 380 kV network developed, another advantage normally
associated with a fully interconnected power system would have been a
reduction in the proportion of reserve generating capacity. However, this
benefit has not fully been realized so far in the Yugoslav system. The gross
reserve margin did decline from 40% in 1970 to 27% in 1975, but rose again
subsequently, reaching 41% in 1980. A reduction of the gross reserve capacity
would be possible in the future with the completion of the 380 kV system and
with the full operation of the dispatching centers covered in the proposed
Project (para. 4.02).
1.22     Yugoslavia has international transmission links with all neighbouring
countries. Since 1974, JUGEL's system has functioned in parallel with
SUDEL I/countries, and with the large West European interconnection UCPTE,
comprising some 300,000 MW of installed capacity and 200,000 MW of spinning
capacity. This has brought several advantages to the JUGEL's system, such as
finm frequency, increased security and emergency assistance.
Comparison of Forecast and Actual Supply and Demand 1976-80
1.23     A comparison of the forecast for electricity sales in the 1976-1980
Plan and the actual results shows that there were shortfalls in both demand
and supply. The forecast of the average rate of growth of electricity sales
in the JUGEL system was overestimated by 50% for the five-year period (11.9%
p.a. against 7.9% p.a.); actual sales in 1980 were only 84% of the projected
figure. Amongst the individual republics, Slovenia came closest to its
forecast, with 1980 sales about 92% of the projected figure, and Macedonia
fell short of its forecast by about 30%.
1.24     The shortfall in actual sales compared with the forecast is primarily
due to: (a) the deceleration in the rate of growth of GDP (5.6% actual
compared to a forecast of 8%); and (b) supply constraints resulting from
delays in completing new generating plants, and low availability of existing
capacity due to maintenance problems and low hydrology.
1.25     On the supply side, the actual additions to capacity during 1976-1980
were well below the planned levels because of major slippages in the comple-
tion dates of new projects. Thus, less than 50% of the planned additions to
hydropower capacity (1,339 MW out of 2,742 14W) was actually commissioned by
1980. Similarly, only 3,393 MW (49% of plan) of thermal capacity was
commissioned, against a planned total of 6,911 MW; the delayed projects
included the nuclear plant at Krsko in Slovenia and two 210-MW lignite-fired
plants in Macedonia. The principal reasons for the slippages in the plans of
1/ South European Interconnection (Yugoslavia, Greece, and Albania)



- 9 -
individual republics, have been the delays in the delivery of equipment and
materials, shortages of foreign and local finance, and overly optimistic
completion schedules.
Forecast for the Period 1981-1990
1.26     The GDP is projected to grow at an average annual rate of about 2.5%
for the period 1981-1985. This would represent a slow down in the real growth
of the economy which averaged about 5.6% p.a. for the period 1976-1980.
Despite the expected deceieration in the growth of the economy projected for
1981-1985, electricity consumptioa is forecast to increase at an average
annual rate of about /.3%; almrst the same annual rate of growth (7.9%)
experienced over the period 1976-1980. This apparent insensitivity of
electricity consumption to the projected drop in the real growth of GDP is
attributable to the fact that substantial demand for electricity in the period
1976-1980 has gone unsatisfied because of supply constraints. It is estimated
that if the program for the development of generation and transmission
facilities had not suffered the drastic slippages and delays, the average
annual growth in the consumption of electricity would have been about 9.0%.
Compared to the actual rate of growth of 7.9%. This implies that about 2% of
the potential growth in consumption went unsatisfied or was met through
autogeneration, a more costly means for generating electricity. If the large
industrial consumers are to meet their electricity needs at least cost over
the next few years (1983-1985), then it would not be unusual to expect the
growth of electricity consumption to be higher than would otherwise prevail,
reflecting the adjustment of future consumers to a situation of unconstrained
supply.
1.27     The demand that has gone unsatisfied in the previous plan is expected
to be shifted to the present plan raising the estimated average annual rate of
growth in electricity consumption from 5.2%, which would have prevailed if
supply was not constrained during the period 1976-1980, to about 7.9%. This
is reflected in the elasticity of electricity consumption to GDP which would
increase from 1.5 for 1976-1980 to about 2.9 for 1981-1985. The increase in
elasticity is misleading in that once the growth rate of electricity
consumption and of real GDP are measured over a longer time horizon that would
allow for the adjustment in consumption between 1982 and 1985, say 1982-1990,
the value for the elasticity drops to about 1.9; reflecting the return to a
more stable relationship between the growth of GDP and growth of electricity
consumption during the period 1986-1990 of about 1.1. The drop in elasticity
from 1.5 for 1976-1980 to 1.1 for 1986-1990, and excluding the abnormal
increase during 1981-1985, is consistent with the general trend being observed
in Europe and takes account of the effects of conservation and improved energy
pricing wnich the Yugoslav authorities have already initiated.
Eie(cricity Pricing
1.28     Prices for oil, petroleum products, imported gas and imported coal
are set by the Federal Community for Prices (FCP). Electricity tariffs and
the prices for domestic coal and gas are set in each republic by the power
sector community of interest and then approved by the republican or provincial
community for prices (RCP). The level and structure of electricity tariffs
are reviewed periodically by the community of interest in each republic and
province to allow for increases in the cost of operation and meet an agreed



- 10 -
level of financing for power sector development.  In the unlikely event of
agreement not being reached between members of the community of interest, the
RCP would arbitrate, and if agreement still could not be reached, the RCP's
recoimmendations would be forwarded to the Republican Chamber of Economy (RCE)
for a decision.
1.29     Although, JUGEL has no direct role in the tariff setting process, it
should be credited for improving the structure of electricity tariffs in
Yugoslavia. JUGEL was responsible for the introduction in the tariff
structure of seasonal and time-of-day pricing, and charges for reactive
power. In 1976, JUGEL agreed under the loan for Transmission II to undertake
a study for the formulation and unification of electricity tariffs in
Yugoslavia which was completed in 1979. Although the introduction of the
unifonr  tariff proposed in the tariff study was rejected by the communities of
interest in virtually all the republics, the study did succeed in establishing
a unified standard for structuring electricity tariffs. However, adoption and
implementation of the new structure in each republic has been slow because of
the time it takes for the communities of interest in reaching consensus
amongst their members.
1.30     While the structure of electricity tariffs in Yugoslavia corresponds
fairly closely to the structure dictated by the economic pricing of
electricity, the level of tariffs is substantially below the long run average
incremental cost of supply, and delays in tariff action to cover the gro4ing
costs of inputs have eroded the internal cash generation of some of the power
enterprises.  This matter is dealt with more fully in paras. 5.06 and 5.07.
Planning
1.31     Energy planning in Yugoslavia is based on three basic principles:
(a) The sovereignty of the republics and provinces to deci(le which
strategy for the development would benefit the members of their
society and the comnmon interest of Yugoslavia;
(b) All decisions are based on mutual agreemeLnt between those involved.
rherefore, the definition of priorities, selection of projects and
financing is carried out at the enterprise level, and then aggregated
and hannonized at republican or provincial levels, thenl finaLly at
the national level.  Emphasi s here is on harmlonization to the common
good as opposed to integration; and
(c) The role of the federal authorities is Limited to arbitration and
consultation.
As a result, the development of the power subsector is based on programs wlhich
are optimized at tile level of each republic and province rather than for
Yugoslavia at, a whole.  The least cost (levelopment prograrn for all of
Yugoslavia is the product of harmonization of tLhe republican and provincial
plans, but chere is no assurance that this pLan represents the least cost from
a national point of view.
1.32     A national least cost study to serve as a basis for guiding the
republics in their process of plan harmonization, and to provide the planners



with a readily available measure of the cost of deviating from an optimal
national plan, was undertaken under the First Transmission Project. However,
since it differed from some of the republican plans, consensus could not be
reached, and as a result, it has been of only lim:ted use. Moreover, it was
not based on economic prices; only petroleum products were properly shadow
priced. This has distorted the least cost. The adoption of modern investment
planning techniques in Yugoslavia is expected to t:ake time since they would
have to be accepted by, and integrated into the planning practices of, each
work organization.
1.33     However, the revised self-management agreements covering the
operation and planning in the power subsector (para. 1.09) are designed to
overcome the difficulties that the institutional setting of the sector poses
in operating the eight power systems as a single fully integrated power
system. The self-management agreement covering the operations of the Yugoslav
interconnected system together with the proposed Project will permit meeting
the demand for electricity throughout Yugoslavia at the least short run cost
to the economy by allowing for the dispatching of plants in each republic on
basis of an order of merit and for the federal dispatch system to optimize
across republics and provinces by overriding the local dispatching in order to
ensure optimization throughout Yugoslavia. The self-management agreement on
planning will permit formulation of the development plan in each republic or
province after taking into consideration the cost of importing the energy from
the interconnected system as an alternative to generation in the republic or
province. (Such an arrangement should prevent investment in facilities which
could otherwise be purchased at a lower cost from another republic or
province.) These agreements represent a major step towards achieving the
Bank's original objectives of ensuring that the operation of Yugoslavia's
power system is efficient from both the technical and economic points of view.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT ENTITIES
Borrowers and Executing Agencies
2.01     The Borrowers would be the composite or work organizations of
associated Labor, in the eight republics/provinces as follows;
Share of         Share of
Republic/                                             Project Cost      Bank Loan  /a
Province                  Borrower                      %     M us$       %    M US$
Bosnia &       COAL "Elektroprivreda Bosne i
Herzegovina   Hercegovine"                            17.64   56.61    1.8.00   21.60
Croatia        Union "Zajednica elektropriv-
rednih organizacija Hrvatske"          15.65   50.24    15.75   18.90
Macedonia      COAL. "Elektrostopanstvo na            10.36   33.27    10.00   12.00
Makedonij i"
Montenegro    WOAL "Elektroprivreda
Crne Gore"                              8.98   28.82      8.75   10.50
Serbia         COAL "Zdruzena elektro-
privreda"                              19.61   62.96    19.75   23.70
Kosovo         COAL "'Elektroprivreda Kosova"          7.19   23.09      7.12    8.54
Vojvodina      COAL "Elektrovojvodina"                 6.79   21.80      7.13    8.56
Slovenia       COAL "Elektrogospodarstvo
Slovenije"                            13.78   44.21    13.50   16.20
100.00  321.00   100.00  120.00
a/ Bank loan assumed of US$120 million, with a front-end fee of US40.3
million (0.25% over loan amount).
2.02     Thie borrowers would be the executing agencies for the dispatch center
in their republic/province and would share, pro-rata to the cost of their own
dispatch centers, the portion of the loan which will finance the Federal
Dispatch Center, for which JUGEL will be the executing agency.
Coordination of Project Implementation
2.03     The relations between the borrowers and JUGEL would be regulated by a
special "Self-Management Agreement on Joint Construction and Financing of the
Yugoslav EMS." As for the First and Second Transmission Projects, JUGEL and
the borrowers wouid execute the proposed Project in close coordination, under
the overall authority of a Coordinating Committee representing the borrowers.
JUGEL would again be designated as coordinator of the Project, responsible for
Coordinating Committee work, engineering, procurement, construction, studies



- 13 -
and relations with the Bank and other lenders. JUGEL would administer on
behalf of the borrowers all foreign loan agreements and contracts based on
them. JUGEL would also be the coordinating agency for disbursement actions
and repayment of loans, as well as for progress reporting on the project to
the Bank. In effect JUGEL would have the same role it had under the first and
second power transmission loan agreements.
Coordination of Operation
2.04     To provide the required degree of nation-wide coordination of
operation consistent with the stage of development reached by the Yugoslav
power system, it is necessary to have formal coordination procedures and
operating criteria for joint operation between all the republican/provincial
power organizations. In accordance with the already adopted practice, such
coordinating mechanism and procedures are provided through self-management
agreements on joint operations (para. 1.09). Until 1981, the joint operation
of the Yugoslav power system was based on a self-management agreement dating
from 1971. This agreement provided for a rather low level of operation
coordination, typical of "loosely coordinated or weak operating pools". Such
level of coordination was consistent with the level of development of the
Yugoslav power system ten years ago and with the dispatch facilities available
at that time. Recently (1981), a new self-management agreement on joint
operation has been agreed upon (para. 1.09). With this agreement, the degree
of coordination in the operation of the Yugoslav power system can improve
substantially by enabling economic optimization. The new "Self-management
Agreement on Joint Operation (SMAJO)" provides fornal means for better
republican/provincial power systems coordination in the following areas:
- Annual operations planning,
- Provision and usage of common stand-by and spinning reserve,
- Fuel savings,
- Reconciliation of weekly and daily operating schedules,
- Wheeling (transit) of energy,
- Imports, exports, and exchange of energy with foreign countries,
- Automatic load-frequency control,
- Coordination of operational management of the 380 and 220 kV
networks,
- Coordination of the proposed energy management facilities
development and maintenance,
- Coordination of electric protection parameters.
However, the effects of the new agreement are limited by the technical
possibilities of the available dispatch control facilities. In order to
obtain the full benefits of the agreement's provisions, it is necessary to
provide state-of-the-art dispatch facilities both for JUGEL and for the
republican/provincial power systems. The proposed project addresses this need
for an efficient electric power system control system (para. 3.03).
2.05     Even though the Yugoslav interconnected power system has been
operated at a relatively low level of coordination the results have been
encouraging. As such, in the past ten years the Yugoslav power system has had
no system collapse other than localized incidents, and has operated in
paralleL with the Austrian and Italian power systems, members of the
Western-European countries interconnection which have very close frequency
variation tolerances.



- 14 -
Management
2.06     The basic management structure is similar for all power
organizations. The Workers' Council (from BOAL through work organization to
composite organization elected in accordance with the relevant Self-Management
Agreements by workers) or, in the case of JUGEL and the Croatian Union of
Power Companies, the assembly of members, acts as the top policy-making body
in much the same fashion as the board of directors of a corporation in other
countries. The Workers' Council or assembly appoints an executive board, and
a business board or a general manager who is the chief executive. However, a
basic difference exists: the Yugoslav organization rather takes the form of
an inverted pyramid with the workers in the upper level and the executives at
the lower point.
2.07     The organization chart for each of eight borrowers and JUGEL is given
in Annex 2.1. The table below summarizes the number of organizations
affiliated with each borrower and their personnel:
Basic
Republic/Province                  Borrowers      Organizations           Personnel
-Number ----               (End-1980)
Bosnia & Herzegovina                    1               98                   12,760
Croatia                                 1               96                   16,193
Macedonia                               1                9                    1,948
Montenegro                              1                6                    1,360
Serbia                                  1               34                    5,700
Kosovo                                  1               23                    9,105
Vojvodina                               1               27                    3,619
Slovenia                                1               57                    7,754
8              350                  58,439
JUGEL                                   -                1                      150
8              351                  58,589
2.08     The technical management staff is well qualified.  The financial
management in most republics/provinces is weak. However, there is growing
awareness of the need to strengthen financial management and it is expected
that in tne coming years most republics/provinces will follow JUGEL's lead in
taking appropriate measures to overcome this weakness (para. 5.09).



- 15 -
III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PRDJECT
The Program for a National Electric Power Management System of Interconnected
Operations
3.01     To reduce Yugoslavia's dependence on imported hydrocarbon fuels, the
ongoing and planned generation expansion programs emphasize the development of
Yugoslavia's considerable lignite reserves and hydroelectric potential (paras.
1.02 and 1.03). It is, however, becoming increasirLgly difficult to mobilize
thie massive capital resources needed for their development. JUGEL is,
therefore, taking further steps to improve the coordination of the activities
of the republican/provincial power organizations so as to achieve the most
economic installation and operation of their generation and transmission
facilities, all within the bounds of the existing self-management agreements
on joint planning and joint operation (para. 1.09). The proposed project was
originally expected to be the last phase of JUGEL's effort to build an
integrated 380 kV power system covering the whole of Yugoslavia and
interconnections with neighboring countries. The entire program was first
reviewed in 1971 during the appraisal of the First Power Transmission Project
(Loan 836-YU). Subsequently, a load dispatch compconent was included as part
of the Second Power Transmission Project (Loan 1469-YU). No Bank financing
for this component was provided.  However, since this component was still in a
very preliminary stage of preparation and the cost estimate was based on
technology of the late 1960s, the loan agreement specified that studies were
to be carried out as part of the project to prepare the load dispatch
component. The studies concluded that given the technological advances that
had occurred during the 1970s, dispatch facilities originally envisaged would
no longer be adequate to generate the necessary benefits of an integrated
380 kV transmission network as had been installed in Yugoslavia. Instead, the
studies recommended that an Energy Managemeat System significantly different
from the load dispatch system originally contemplat:ed be installed; it is more
complex and uses more sophisticated equipment, and is thus substantially more
expensive than the dispatch facility originally ant:icipated; it also permits
economic optimization of power across Yugoslavia's entire interconnected
system. As a result of the above, the Yugoslav authorities requested the Bank
and EIB to make the dispatch system the core of the proposed Third Power
Transmission Project and to delete the dispatch component from the Second
Power Transmission Project.
3.02     JUGEL currently directs interconnected operations by means of annual,
and monthly plans and dispatch schedules agreed upon between the
republican/provincial power organizations. Because there is no computerized
supervision and control system at the national level, the Yugoslav
interconnected electric power system is operated mainly by telephone directed
operator intervention. The power plants are operat:ed principally in
accordance with predetermined generating unit loading schedules.  Except for
frequency control, remote monitoring of the power plants and substations is
practically non-existent. This is rather unusual i-or an interconnected power
system as large and as complex as Yugoslavia's. The current manner of
operation does not permit operating plans and schedules to be adapted with
sufficient flexibility to short term changes in hydrological and other system
conditions. The proposed program would provide this flexibility and would
allow the operation of generation and transmission facilities closer to their
technical limits while at the same time optimizing system production cost and
maximizing system reliability, and thus strengthening the coordinated
operation of the interconnected power system of Yugoslavia.



- 16 -
3.03     The proposed national electric power management system (EMS) consists
of a computerized system which would allow for the remote supervision of the
interconnected power system at the national level and permit the coordination
of actions during serious emergencies. The feasibility study of the EMS has
been prepared by a joint venture of Systems Control, Inc. (Palo Alto,
California, USA) and Systems Europe S.A. (Brussels, Belgium), both firms with
wide experience in the field of electric system control systems, and
acceptable to the Bank. The EMS would also provide for remote supervision and
control of the electric power facilities at the regional (republican/
provincial) level. The principal components of the couiplete EMS program are:
(i) an Operation Planning System (OPS) for predictive management of the power
system; and (ii) a Real-Time Control System (RTCS) for on-line management of
the power system. Communication between the different facilities of these two
systems will be achieved through a telecommunication system consisting of
microwave radio relay links. Tne alternatives considered for the OPS were:
(a) use of back-up RTCS process computer facilities (see para. 3.08); (b) a
large engineering computer facility at JUGEL to which the republican!
provincial power organizations could have access; and (c) an engineering
computer at each republican/provincial power organizations. Using the RTCS
back-up computer facilities for the operations planning functions reduces
system costs for computers but its draw-backs are: (1) the characteristics of
predictive functionis and power system real-time on-line control functions are
so dissimilar in nature with respect to type of processing, execution cycle,
input-output files and reliability that it would not be very realistic to
design a single data processing system for the solution of all problems of a
large and complex power system; and (2) in the event of failure of one of the
RTCS computers, the OPS functions cannot be executed. For these reasons, the
option of using the RTCS back-up computers for the operations planning
functions was considered not desirable. Furthermore, with separate OPS, the
computers can provide additional support in other areas such as corporate and
financial planning, and cost accounting. Therefore, the concept of separated
data-processing systems for OPS and RTCS has been retained in the proposed
program in accordance with common practice among USA power utilities and
UNIPEDE's 1/ recommendation. A centralized OPS at JUGEL would present several
serious disadvantages since all eight republican/provincial organizations must
compete for time, and local characteristics cannot be modeled adequately using
standard system software. The OPS will consist of a central computer facility
to be located at a Federal Dispatch Center (JUGEL's Dispatch Center) and
remote terminal computer systems. The RTCS will consist of real-time process
computer systems to be located at the Federal Dispatch Center (FDC) and
republican/provincial dispatch centers (RDC and PDC) and of a Data Acquisition
and Control System (DACS) which includes a Data Communication Network (DCN)
anid Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) at the different generating plants and
substations of the system. The main objective of the DACS is to provide a
continous two-way data flow between the Real-Time Control System and the power
system (generating stations and substations) in the process of real-time
on-line control. For the purpose of data exchange between OPS and RTCS, in
each dispatch center a two-way flow is foreseen by means of direct data-link.
Annex 3.1 gives a more detailed description of the elements forming the EMS
program.
1/ Union Internationale de Producteurs et Distributeurs d'Electricit4.



- 17 -
3.04     Three basic structures for the EMS were examined by the consultants:
(1) centralized; (2) decentralized; and (3) hierarchical. A centralized
approach was found to be unfeasible for the following reasons:
- Yugoslavia's power industry consists of several autonomous power
organizations following the country's choice of decentralized
organization and self-management principLes. Forced centralization
would be contrary to this philosophy and would lead to serious
organizational problems and confusion.
- The diversity of the Yugoslav power generation, including many
regional hydro resources and river basins, leads to local
optimization solutions. Completely centralized operations would
increase tremendously the scope and compLexity of the required data
communication network and often it would not be possible to schedule
local cascading hydro to the level neede(d for true optimization.
-  Individual republican/provincial power o-rganizations have developed
expertise specific to their system; much of this would be lost in a
completely centralized system.
A decentralized system would result in having on the one hand a 380 kV
interconnected Yugoslav power system, and on the other, a decentralized
control scheme which would be unable to realize the potential savings of
coordinated operations between the eight republican/provincial power
organizations. For this reason, the decentralized approach is not
acceptable. The data processing system for RTCS inust therefore be designed as
a function of the structure of the power system to be controlled, the
operational organization, the security attached to each task and the structure
of the interconnection tie-lines between the power organizations. The
configuration of the proposed Yugoslav EMS is the result of meeting two
apparently conflicting criteria: on the one hand, the decentralized nature of
the operating structure of the Yugoslav power subsector, and on the other
hand, the requirement of the federal law to provide for the operation and
functioning of the Yugoslav interconnected electric power system as a single
integrated system. These opposite constraints can only be successfully
satisfied by applying two basic concepts: a hierarchical control structure
with three control levels: Federal, Republic/Province and Area control level;
and a strong operating coordination based on the principles of "tight
operating pooling". In other words, the general objective is an
organizational structure and procedures such that the interconnected Yugoslav
power enterprises can operate "optimally" while retaining the characteristic
features of decentralization and self-management, that is, relative
independence of member enterprises.  The facilities comprising the EMS will
form such hierarchical control structure for the operation of the Yugoslav
interconnected power system. Annex 3.1 (Attachment 1) shows a schematic
representation of the proposed national electric power management system. The
functions to be performed by the EMS are all those needed to achieve at a
national level a degree of coordination of the Yugoslav interconnected power
system consistent with the intent of the new self-management agreement on
joint operation; that is, all functions required to form a "tight operating
pool" as understood in the USA and Western Europe (The philosophy of the tight
operating pool is to cause each member to dispatch its units in the same



- 18 -
manner in which they would be dispatched by a hypothetical single utility.
This result is mainly achieved by means of a scheme of cost/benefit
allocations which makes it attractive for each member to dispatch its units in
the manner indicated by economic optimization). The FDC, which will be the
top level of the system will perform production scheduling and coordination,
supervision of the main interconnected network, interchange accounting,
operation analysis and reporting, and energy management. At the next level
will be the RDCs and PDCs where the DACS will perform digital automatic
generation control (AGC), supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA),
and energy management. The computer at the RDCs and PDCs will process,
transmit, and receive data from the FDC computer. At the bottom level will be
the power plants and substations which will be monitored and controlled from
the RDCs and PDCs, except where area control centers (ACCs) are interposed to
manage hydroplants on the same water course and/or local transmission
network.
Project Selection and Content
3.05     As shown diagrammatically in Map IBRD 16669, the complete EMS program
will comprise the FDC facilities of JUGEL near Belgrade, and the RDC and PDC
of six republican and two provincial electric power organizations:
Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine (Bosnia and Hercegovina) at Sarajevo,
Elektroprivreda Crne Gore (Montenegro) at Titograd, Zajednica Elektroprivrenih
Organizacija Hrvatske (Croatia) at Zagreb, Elektrostopanstvo na Makedoniji
(Macedonia) at Skopje, Elektrogospodarstvo Slovenije at Ljubljana, Zdruzena
Elektroprivreda Srbije (Serbia) at Belgrade, Elektroprivreda Kosova (Kosovo)
at Pristina, and Elektrovojvodina (Vojvodina) at Novi Sad. Due to the
relatively large scope and long implementation period (10 years) of the
program and in order to provide an economic return as soon as possible, a
two-stage implementation approach has been adopted. The project proposed for
Bank financing covers the first of the two stages and has been defined to
comprise all the facilities needed to provide benefits from the EMS as soon as
commissioned, that is: (i) for the Operation Planning System the full basic
hardware system configuration and almost the full scope of commion application
software resident at the central computer facility at FDC; (ii) for the
Real-Time Control System the minimum hardware and software needed for
successfull initial operation of the real-time on-line system; (iii) for the
Data Acquisition and Control System about 2/3 of the 51 Intelligent
Communication Devices (ICDs) and associated software contemplated ultimately
on the Data Communication Network (DCN) on the basis of the power systems
configurations, local telecommunication capabilities, and expected number of
area control centers; (iv) for the Telecommunication System the full scope of
the microwave system, and about 2/3 of the complementary telephone, telex, and
facsimile network; for the equipment in power facilities about 80% of the
Remote Terminal Units and associated Local Interface (LI) equipment required
as constituent part of the DATS; and the full scope of auxiliary equipment for
the nine dispatch centers, namely: uninterruptible power supply, air
conditioning equipment, security systems, and fire protection. At the
completion of the first stage of the program (the Project), the Y'lgoslav
interconnected electric power system will be operating in real-time and will
have available the operation planning function. The second stage of the
program, to be implemented immediately after commissioning of the first stage,
will incorporate the more complex systems software application programs both
for the OPS and the RTCS to the full scope needed for state-of-the-art on-line



- 19 -
power control, expansion of the main and bulk memnories and peripherals,
completion of the man-machine interface, and introduction of front-end
processors. In terms of investment based on 1982 base line costs plus
physical contingencies, the Stage I/Stage II ratio is approximately 2 to 1.
3.06     The proposed project, covering the requirements of the Federal
Dispatch Center, the six Republican Dispatch Centers and the two Provincial
Dispatch Centers, has been organized into three parts:  (i) the supervision
and control system; (ii) the complementary telecommunication system necessary
to operate the EMS; and (iii) the provision of project services, including a
comprehensive training program and engineering services. The principal
project components are as follows:
I. Supervision and Control
(a) Installation at the FDC, the six RDC, and the two PDC of:
(i)    The Operation Planning System (OPS) comprising:
- Computer hardware, 1/
- Support and application software,
- Auxiliary equipment consisting principally of
operator/programmer terminals, bulk storage subsystems, and
peripheral subsystems (diskette readers, line printers,
magnetic tape units),
- Interactive CRTs (screen and keyboard),
- Communication interface.
(ii)    The Real-Time Control System (RTCS) comprising:
- Dual process computer hardware,
- Support, application, and system software,
- Auxiliary equipment consisting principally of operator
terminals, bulk storage subsystems, peripheral subsystems,
peripheral subsystems (diskette readers, line printers,
magnetic tape units),
- Man-machine interface subsystems consisting of dispatch
operator consoles, color CRTs, dialogue equipment
(alphanumeric and functional keyboards, light pens, etc.),
loggers (typewriters, character printers), video (hard)
copier devices,
- Interprocessor communications between main computers,
and with the Intelligent Communication Devices (IDCs) of the
Data Communication Network (DCN).
1/ Computer capacities will be tailored to the dispatch center's relative
importance, i.e. OPS - general purpose computers large scale for RDF,
Sarajevo, Zagreb, and Belgrade, and mini-computer for Ljubljana, Titograd,
Pristina, Novi Sad, and Skopje; RTCS - medium scale process computers in all
locations. Hardware configuration for the different dispatch centers is
shown in Annex 3.1, Attachment 13.



- 20 -
(b) The civil works, power supplies, and related infrastructure for
the dispatch centers.
(c) The Data Communications Network (DCN) for the Data Acquisition and
Transmission System (DATS) consisting of ;
(i)    Intelligent Communication Devices (ICDs) located at FDC,
RDCs, PDCs, Area Control Centers and other strategic
locations of the Yugoslav Power System;
(ii)    Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) at each major power station and
substation of the Yugoslav Power System;
(iii)    Local Interfaces (LIs) with power equipment being controlled,
at same locations as RTUs; and
(iv)    Software for IDCs.
II. Telecommunications
(a) The provision of a wide-band microwave telecommunication network
interconnecting the FDC, the six RDCs, the two PDCs, and all other
main operating facilities, consisting of:
(i)    microwave equipment;
(ii)    a microwave supervisory and control system; and
(iii)    associated traffic routing and multiplex equipment.
(b) Dispatch centers telecommunication equipment (telephone exchanges,
telex network, teleprinters).
I1I. Project Services
(a) Provision of engineering services (about 1,200 man-months) for:
(i)    preliminary system design, specifications, and tender
documents;
(ii)    bid evaluation and contract negotiations; and
(iii)    project implementation assistance (supervision of: detailed
design development, system checkout and integration in
factory and on site, factory and field acceptance tests).
(b)  Training Program.  A comprehensive training program for the
personnel, about 500 technicians, (this will require about 1,000
man-months of instructor services) who will implement, manage,
maintain, operate and further extend the EMS will be carried out
in Yugoslavia and overseas by the suppliers, the consultants, and
in modern pool and utility dispatch centers abroad.



- 21 -
3.07     The dispatch centers required for this project will use as far as
possible the existing buildings currently used to house the equipment for the
Load Frequency/Automatic Generation Control System (LFC/AGC) which would be
expanded or rebuilt as needed. In order to be able to use the facilities
(buildings, towers, and power supply) of the existing public telecommtnication
system, all backbones routes of the EIMS microwave system are designed to use the
same relay station locations.
3.08     The stringent requirements for real-time on-line state-of-the-art
applications regarding system response, availability, and maintainability
dictate as a minimum the use of two process computers in each dispatch center.
Hlenice, in line with world-wide accepted practice, in both the FDC, and the RDC
and PDC, a dual redundant computer configuration has been adopted. Dual
redundant computers - a primary and a back-up computer - provide the high degree
of reliability required in dispatch centers. The back-up computer is normally
idle, but will take over real-time on-line operation if the primary computer
fails. The dual system in practice works on the principle: "two listen while
one speaks", which guarantees a fast on-line take-over by the standby
equipment. However, the back-up computer may be used for program development
without interfering with its real-time operation availability. The ICDs for the
DCN will be programmable dual miniprocessors to perform the data acquisition and
communication functions required by the RTCS. Dual miniprocessors are needed to
ensure full redundancy of hardware modules and software, so that the ICD will
continue to funiction under single contingency failure conditions.
3.09     Performance criteria for the EMS teleconmunication transmission system
must be consistent with the stringent requirement:s for real-time data
transmission, that is, the same high availability level as for other components
of the Real Time Control System (RTCS). Current practice in major utilities
throughout the world is to meet this requirement by private wide-band microwave
radio links needed for connecting the FDC with the RDC and PDC, as well as the
RDCs/PDCs with the main generating and transmission nodes of the Yugoslav power
system (mainly 380 kV substations), and Area Control Centers. The backbone of
the microwave system will consist mainly of 960 and 300 telephone channels,
while the branching routes will have as a rule 120 channels and exceptionally
300 channels capacity. A total of 56 relays and 52 terminal stations are
contemplated. The overall configuration and rout:es of the EMS telecommunication
system are shown on Map IBRD 16670.
Project Cost
3.10     The total cost of the Project is estimat:ed at about US$293 million of
which about US$156 million (53%) represents foreign costs. The Project cost
estimate is summarized below. Assuming that interest during construction and
front-end fee on the proposed Bank loan would be Bank-financed, the total
project financing required is estimated at about US$321 million of which US$184
million (57%) is foreign cost.



- 22 -
Summary Project Cost Estimate
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
----Billion Din. 1/----   ------USs$ Million--
I. Supervisory and Control
Systein                          4.84     5.08      9.92    76.81    80.60   157.41
II. Telecommunications
System                          0.69     1.76      2.45    10.89    27.90    38.79
III.  Project Services
- Training                     0.04     0.15      0.19      0.60     2.40      3.00
- Engineering                  0.16     0.19      0.35      2.60     3.00      5.60
- Owners expenses              0.35     0.10      0.45      5.60     1.60      7.20
base Cost
(January 1983 prices)          6.08     7.28    13.36    96.50   115.50   212.00
Physical Contingencies               0.31      0.36     0.67      5.00      5.70    10.70
Price Contingencies                  2.24      2.19     4.43    35.50    34.80    70.30
Total Project Cost  2/             8.63      9.83    18.46   137.00   156.00   293.00
Interest during Construction
Bank-Financed                       1.74      -        1.74      -        27.70    27.70
Front-end Feed on Bank Loan  3/    -           0.02     0.02      -         0.30     0.30
Total Financing Required          10.37      9.85    20.22   137.00   184.00   321.00
1/ Exchange rate Din. 63.00 = US$1.00.
2/ Including identifiable import duties and taxes estimated at the equivalent of
US$30.30 million.
3/ Bank loan assumed as US$120 million.
Note: Detailed cost estimate by system and by dispatch center are documented in
the Project File.
3.11     The base costs were estimated in US dollars by JUGEL and their
consultants on the basis of quotations prices prevailing in November 1981
updated by indexation in order to reflect January 1983 price levels. These
prices are reasonable. Quantities and complexity of the hardware and software
components were derived from conceptual and preliminary designs sufficiently
developed, and which are not expected to change significantly when all the
final designs are completed. The designs so far developed by the consultants
confirm that project cost is realistic, although, given the constant
improvement in the technology involved and the resultant prices changes, even
with estimates based on bid-level designs there might prove to be slightly
larger variations at bid submission (most likely downward) than normally
encountered in power projects. The Project cost estimates include engineering
and administration costs for the Project as well as applicable import duties
and taxes. The cost of engineering services has been estimated on the basis
of about US$15,000 per man-month (including subsistence and travel expenses)
for foreign consultants and US$3,000 per man-month for local consultants.



- 23 -
Likewise, the cost of training has been estimated on the basis of the same
figures per man-month for foreign and local instructors. In estimating the
cost of the different systems of the EMS, the foLlowing precautions were taken:
(1)  OPS System:  To the hardware and software costs 10% was added for
spare parts, 15% over this total for vendor's system checkout and
integration (engineering, testing, shipment) and 10% for design
contingencies.
(2)  RTS System:  Same percentages were added to the hardware and software
costs except that 25% was taken for vendor's system checkout and
integration due to the higher complexity of the system.
(3)  DCN:  A design contingency of 30% was added to the hardware/software
cost taking into account the level of design definition achieved for
this network at the preliminary design stage.
(4)  RTUs:  A design contingency of 20% was added to the hardware cost for
same reasons as for the DCN.
3.12     An overall physical contingency of 5% has been added to the base cost
plus import duties and taxes, which is reasonable since design contingencies
have been included in the base cost of each system. Owners' own expenses to
implement the Project have been computed at the rate of 4% over total direct
cost of facilities on the basis of experience in the Yugoslav power
subsector. Price contingencies were estimated on the basis of annual price
increases of 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6.0% from 1986.
These contingencies reflect the expected movemeni: of international prices.
Cost estimates have been prepared in US dollars as the Government has decided
to adjust the value of the Dinar to compensate the difference in domestic and
international price movements.
Project Financing Plan, Amount of Loan and Co-Financing Arrangements
3.13     Aside from the Bank, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has already
granted a loan of 67 million European Currency Units (ECU), equivalent to
about US$64 million, to help meet part of the Project's foreign exchange
requirements. The EIB loan together with a Bank contribution of
US$92 million would cover the Project's foreign exchange requirement,
estimated at US$156 million, before interest during construction and before
front-end fee. Given the tight foreign exchange situation of Yugoslavia, it
appears desirable to help alleviate the country's difficulties in mobilizing
scarce foreign exchange to service the Bank loan by including in the Bank loan
an amount of US$27.7 million to cover interest payment on the loan during
construction and US$0.3 million for the front-end fee. The Bank loan will
thus amount to US$120 million, which represents 37% of the Project's total
cost and b5% of its foreign financing requirement:s. The local cost financing
requirements, estimated at the equivalent of Us$L37 million, will be met
essentially from internal resources of the power sector and local borrowings.
Tee financing plan for the Project is, therefore, the following;



- 24 -
Project Financing Plan
TUST million)
Interest   Front-   Total    % Share
Total    during      end Fee  Finan-   in Funds
Project  Construc-  on Bank  cing         Requi-
Cost     tion        Loan      Required  red
Funds Required                         293.00    27.70      0.30   321.00       100
Funding Sources
Local 1/ (Internal Sources
and Local Borrowing)            132.80      -         -      132.80       41
Foreign:
Proposed IBRD Loan                92.00    27.70       0.30   120.00       37
EIB Loan                          64.00      -         -        64.00      20
Other Borrowing 2/                 4.20      -         -         4.20        2
i/  The local currency funding for the Project in Dinars is 11.5 billion.
This amount is estimated on the basis of local (Dinar) price contingency
factors.
2/ Foreign currency loans already secured by the Croatian electric power
organization for work in progress.
Funding arrangements for the majority of the borrowers, representing the bulk
of the Project local cost financing requirements, are well advanced and likely
to be finalized during April 1983. The finalization of the local funding
arrangements is expected shortly and it is proposed that finalization of any
remaining local funding arrangement be a condition of effectiveness.
Project Implementation and Operation
3.14     Due to the complex nature and magnitude of the Yugoslav EMS project,
actually composed of nine EMS's projects, close overall coordination is
essential. A Coordinating Committee, chaired by JUGEL's General Manager,
would be responsible for reaching agreement on all aspects of the project
execution. This Coordinating Committee was created in December, 1980 by
decision of the General Assembly of JUGEL. Actual management of the project
implementation will be done through a Project Management Team in JUGEL and
corresponding project management teams in each republic and province. The
overall project management organization planned for the implementation of the
Project is shown in Annex 3.4. The structure of the Yugoslav EMS Project
Management Team is shown in Annex 3.5.  A similar organizational structure is
used for the republican/provincial project management teams. All these
project management teams have been formed and are acting in the preparatory
phase of the Project. JUGEL would be responsible for the Coordinating
Committee work, engineering, procurement, and construction supervision. These
arrangements are very advanced and satisfactory.



- 25 -
3.15     JUGEL is using the assistance of consultants 1/  acceptable to the
Bank to prepare bid-level designs, specifications, and bidding documents.
JUGEL would also use these consultants to assist in the evaluation of bids,
contract negotiations, and construction supervision. The foreign cost of
these services would be financed from the proposed loan.
3.16     The successful operation of the EMS will depend on a well planned
integrated training program for the staff which would operate the EMS (The
manpower requirements are detailed in Annex 3.1, Attachment 11). JUGEL has
already prepared such training program. A summary of this program is shown in
Annex 3.1, Attachment 12. The detailed timetable for implementing the
training program will be developed in agreement with the vendors selected
through the biduing process to supply the different component systems of the
EMS (para. 3.20). The foreign cost of this training program will be financed
from the proposed Bank loan or the EIB loan depending on the final allocation
of procurement packages which in each case include necessary associated
training. About 1/3 of the required approximately 500 technicians are
presently working in the dispatch functions of JUGEL and republican/provincial
power organizations.  The additional personnel would be recruited basically
from engineers coming out of Yugoslavia's technical colleges and
universities 2/. The training program administrator within each project
management team would have the responsibility for this recruiting.
3.17     The EMS program is expected to contribute substantially to the
transfer of state-of-the-art technology to Yugoslavia. The OPS and RTCS would
use the latest computer design technology. However, the design of the EMS is
being done (para. 3.15) using only proven technology already used in existing
electric power systems. To further insure that this criteria is applied
throughout, both bid-level designs and detailed designs will be reviewed by an
internationally-known specialist in the field of electric power system control
systems retained by the Bank. The JUGEL and republican/provincial dispatch
centers staff is competent and is expected to absorb this know-how. In
addition, during project implementation, staff of JUGEL and republican/
provincial organizations involved with the projeSct are expected to increase
their know-lhow in this field through visits to foreign power companies with
complex control and supervision systems, and to facilities of vendors involved
in manufacturing project components and systems. Foreign expenses associated
with these technical visits will be financed from the proposed loan.
3.18     The proposed agreements for the implementation of the Project (para.
2.03) provide an acceptable commitment of the 8 republican/provincial power
1! Systems Control Inc, USA, and the EEE Consortium (Energoprojekt, Belgrade,
Elecktroprojekt, Zabreb, and Elektroprojekt, Ljubljana).
2/  About 1,300 engineers in the fields of electricity and electronics receive
their degrees (BSc level) annually in Yugoslavia's 17 technical colleges
and universities.
Source: Dean of the School of Electric Engineering Belgrade University.



- 26 -
organizations, and JUGEL. Likewise the agreements on joint operations and
joint planning (para. 1.09) would go far to assure efficient use of the 380 kv
network and of the proposed EMS. To ensure that the appropriate legal
framework for the implementation, operation, and efficient use of the EMS
exists, the borrowers and JUGEL would have to submit to the Bank before Board
approval the executed and approved instruments for each of the three self-
management agreements, namely: (1) on joint operation; (2) on joint develop-
ment planning; and (3) on joint construction of the EMS; and for the creation,
appointing, and organization of the Coordinating Committee for Construction of
the EMS.
3.19     The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1987, although
full availability of all the Project's systems, after de-bugging, could take
as long as one more year given the complexity of the software. Since a
one-year guaranteed period is normally stipulated contractually, payment of
retention money could extend for another year. Bid-level design and technical
specifications for bidding documents are currently being prepared. Complete
bid documents are expected to be available by May, 1983 at the latest. Bid
documents for the microware contract package, which will be the first contract
package to be bid, have been finalized. The scheduling of procurement for the
various contract packages is shown in Annex 3.4, The implementation schedule
for the project components appears in Annex 3.5 in the form of a bar-chart and
in a CPM diagram in Annex 3.6. These schedules, which are reasonable, would
be used to monitor the progress in the implementation of the Project.
Procurement
3.20     Procurement of goods and services proposed for Bank or EIB financing
would be through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) consistent with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines, as also agreed by EIB. Thirteen contract
packages, involving substantial foreign exchange in each case, will be
procured in this manner. In each package are included all cost elements
necessary to supply a complete system, such as detailed design, hardware,
software (whenever applicable), system integration and testing, installation
and commissioning, and training.  Items which are not proposed for Bank or EIS
financing, such as buildings, small civil works, access roads, and towers for
microwave antennas, are not considered likely to attract foreign bidders
because of small size and geographical dispersion, and will be procured from
local sources following local competitive procurement procedures which are
acceptable. As shown in Annex 3.4 for the more complex contracts,
prequalification of prospective vendors/suppliers will be required to insure
that only qualified and experience contractors submit bids.
Retroactive Financing
3.21     Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million, equivalent to about
0.4% of the proposed loan, is proposed to cover consultant services to assist
JUGEL during the bidding process, bid evaluation, and contract negotiations
between January 1983 and Loan signing. These activities cannot be delayed if
the implementation schedules for the proposed project are to be met.



- 27 -
Loan Allocation and Disbursement
3.22     Disbursements from the Bank loan, which would be fully documented,
would be made for the foreign exchange expenditures for supply contracts and
for civil works for the construction of JUGEL dispatch center, all awarded
under Bank Group Guidelines (para. 3.20) and for contracts for consultants
services. Specific allocation of contracts between the Bank and EIB would
depend on the outcome of bidding. The expected disbursement schedule 1/
(Annex 3.7) is based on the Project implementation schedule. In general it
follows the standard disbursement profile for power projects in the EMENA
Region, which substantially agrees with the actual disbursement experience on
the First Power Transmission and the Second Power Transmission loans. The
diagram in Annex 3.11 illustrates this conformity. The loan closing date
would be December 31, 1989 to allow for payment of retention money, and take
into consideration the relatively long commissioning period which could be
needed for this advanced technology project (para. 3.19).
Environmental Impact
3.23     The Project's effect on the environment would be negligible.  The
only noticeable environmental aspect will be the visual impact of microwave
relay stations which form part of the telecommunications systems. These
stations, however, would be installed at the site of existing relay stations
of the public telecommunications network of Yugoslavia.
Project Risks
3.24     Due to the high technology state-of-the-art nature of the Project,
there are risks associated with the fact that this technology is continuously
evolving and changing rapidly. There is therefore the risk that staff
involved in Project implementation may lack certain necessary skills at key
dates. The participation of qualified consultants and the carefully scheduled
training program tied to each supply contract minimize this risk. To further
minimize this risk, the Project training program is designed with a flexible
approach to permit adaptation to a rapidly evolving supervisory systems
technology. The coordination of implementation to be provided by the
Coordinating Committee and the Project Management Team at JUGEL should assist
in ensuring that the equipment and system configurations of the various
project components are compatible.
3.25     Even though the borrowers have entered into binding agreements in
order to use efficiently the EMS (para. 3.18), the risk exists nevertheless,
that joint operation could be hampered by political differences opposing the
interest of the individual republic/province to the interest of the country as
a whole. There is, furthermore, the risk that local finances might not be
provided by the borrowers in a timely fashion, as has been the case during the
implementation of the Second Power Transmission Project notwithstanding the
assurances given to the Bank by the borrowers, the Communities of Interest,
and other authorities involved in the Project (para. 3.13).
1/ Before front-end fee on Bank loan and interest during construction
Bank-financed.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
4.01     Yugoslavia domestic energy resources consist mainly of lignite and
hydropower potential (para. 1.07). The lignite reserves are sufficient to
meet the demand for another 300 years at the current level of consumption;
nowever, it is of poor quality which makes its transport between republics
uneconomic. The only economic means of exploiting the lignite is by
combustion for power generation in mouth-of--mine power stations, and the
transmission of electricity to the major, demand centers. The need for
transmission from the generating stations at mine sites and for strong
interconnections between republics underscores the critical role the 380 kV
transmission network is expected to play in achieving the Government's
objective of increased dependence on domestic resources for meeting the power
subsector's needs of primary energy. However, it was recognized by the Bank
and the Yugoslav authorities that, unless the network is supplemented by
modern dispatching facilities, the future demand for electricity could not be
met at least cost to the economy even if investment planning is least cost.
The Project would provide the facilities needed to improve the efficiency by
which the entire Yugoslav system is operated, and therefore the justification
for it hinges largely on the saving it would provide (para. 4.02). The
consultants' technical and economic analysis concerning the selection of the
Project componernt was reviewed and found to be acceptable.
4.02     The economic rate of return on the Project is estimated at about 16%
which compares favourably with an opportunity cost of capital of about 12%
(Annex 4.1). It is equal to the discount rate which equates the present value
of the streams of incremental benefits and the streams of incremental costs
associated with the Project and defined over its expected life. Only the
measurable costs and benefits were used in the calculation. The benefits
include: a) the net saving in the average fuel cost resulting from the
improvement in the fuel efficiency brought about by the economic dispatching
of plants throughout Yugoslavia; and b) the net saving in capacity cost
associated with the reduction of the reserve margin that would have been
otherwise maintained by each republic and province. The costs include: a)
the incremental capital and maintenance costs associated with the installation
of the dispatch centers; and b) the capital cost needed to expand and
reinforce the dispatch centers over the next 30 years.  Specific conversion
factors were used to express all costs and benefits in their equivalent values
to the economy.  See Annex 4.2 for assumptions used in the calculation of the
rate of return.
4.03     The return on the Project understates the real return because it does
not take account of added benefits such as the improvement in system
reliability, scheduling of plant Tnaintenance and system control. However,
three time periods were used by the consultant to simulate the benefits of
improved dispatching, and the results were generalized to cover the period
during which the Project would be in operation. If these benefits are taken
into consideration, the rate of return on the Project would increase to 20%.



- 29 -
V. FINANCE
Past Financial Performance and Present Position
5.01     The financial statements for the years 1.979-82 for each of the
borrowers under the Third Transmission Project are shown in Annex 5.1. These
statements include the republican/provincial electricity distribution
activities, except in Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, where the distribution
organizations have not, so far, formed a joint composite organization, or do
not pool revenues, with the generation and transmission organizations.
5.02     The following table shows the self-financing contribution to each
borrower's total annual capital investment (excluding, in the case of joint
construction projects, capial expenditure incurred for the benefit of, and
financed by, other republics/provinces), as well as the borrowers' rate of
return on average fixed assets in service, as revalued, their debt/equity
ratio and the corresponding debt service coverage. Revenue related ratios
take into account non-reimbursable investment contributions from consumers.
Self-            Rate                               Debt
Financing           of           Debt/Equity        Service
Republic/Province          Level           Return            Ratio           Coverage
(1979-82         (1979-82          (1982)            (1982)
Average)         Average)
Bosnia & Herzegovina       21.0%             6.3%            43/57              1.3
Croatia                    53.9%            12.1%            30/70              2.3
Macedonia                   4.0%             2.2%            51/49              0.4
Montenegro                 25.6%             7e7%             38/62             1.2
Serbia                     39.7%            10.3%            33/67              1.7
Kosovo                     29.7%            17.0%             66/34             1.5
Vojvodina                  23.5%            17.4%            39/61              3.1
Slovenia                   24.9%             0.9%             54/46             1.8
5.03     Under the Second Transmission Loan (1469-YU), the republican power
generation and transmission enterprises (power distribution organizations were
not included) were to attain an annual net cash genieration equal to 30% of
their investment in power facilities during each year. Supplemental letter
No. 7 confirmed that this was a minimum objective to be increased to at least
35/. as quickly as possible, and in any case within a period of five years
beginning with the fiscal year 1978. The letter also mentioned that the cash
generation calculation would include non-repayable consuimer contributions
(including special taxes and other levies) related to the sale of electricity
and intended for the expansion of power facilities, and that shortfalls in
cash generation in one year could be compensated by overruns in the previous
year or following year. In the case of Loan 1561-YU, the cash generation
target for Bosnia-Herzegovinia was set at 35% to cover not only the generation
and transmission enterprises but also the power distribution organizations.



- 30 -
5.04     The above table shows that in several republics/provinces these
targets have not been attained in recent years. The principal reasons are:
(a) failure to keep tariffs and investment levies in line with cost
increases during a period of heavy inflation and poor
hydrological conditions;
(b) an increasingly heavy debt service burden (local loan conditions
have in recent years become much less favorable than in the
past, while the foreign debt service burden has more than
trebled in line with the deterioration of the dinar exchange
rate since 1979);
(c) lumpiness of capital expenditure in some republics/provinces.
5.05     The power tariffs, tariff structure, tariff policy and power sector
investment financing polices and measures in the different Yugoslav Republics
and Provinces have always varied widely. In most republics the policy is that
sales revenues should cover operating expenses, including interest charged to
operations, and leave a small surplus on operations (net income); major
investments are financed out of loans, depreciation, and revenues from other
sources (some but not all of which are related to electricity sales) such as
levies and surcharges on electricity consumers, connection charges, special
taxes on the investment or business funds of all enterprises. However, this
policy is not uniformly applied, and in some republics (Croatia, Macedonia,
Slovenia) operating losses have repeatedly been made up by subventions from
the republican governments. All power sector investments of any significance,
and the corresponding sources of finance, have to be approved by the
republican/provincial power sector Communities of Interest (producer and
consumer assemblies), governments and parliamentary assemblies, both project
by project and as part of the annual and 5-year planning process. Moreover,
tariff increases are presently subject to temporary price controls and Federal
approval as part of the emergency measures taken in connection with the
economic stabilization program of Yugoslavia. In two of the most important
republics, Slovenia and Croatia, the Community of Interest itself acts as
custodian of the investment funds collected from consumers and other sources,
making them available in the form of loans for capital expenditure of the
power enterprises. The decisions on tariff and investment financing policy,
and on the extent of tariff increases, are thus, in effect, largely outside
the control of the power enterprises and the cash generation covenants in the
existing loan agreements have had little impact in the tariff setting
process. Tariffs are, nevertheless, under continuous review, and adjusted at
least once a year to allow for cost increases. It is of interest in this
connection that, under Yugoslav law, fixed assets are revalued in any year in
whict inflation has reached 10% or more since the last revaluation, and that,
furthermore, the legal minimum fixed asset depreciation rates were increased
at the beginning of 1982 to enable Yugoslav enterprises to achieve a greater
cash generation.



- 31 -
Future Financial Performance and Objectives
5.06     The financial results of the borrowers for the years 1979-82, as well
as financial projections for the years 1983-87 prepared in 1982 on the basis
of the medium and long term plan figures available at the time, showed that
sizeable tariff increases would be required in retal terms during the years
1983-87 to ensure the recovery of operating expenses and interest on loans,
and to produce a net cash generation after debt service of 30% or more. The
tariff policy of the power sector was, therefore, discussed at length with the
Yugoslav authorities both before and during negot:iations for the proposed
Loan. The Government's representatives explainecl that following a 25%
increase of electricity tariffs effective March 5, 1983, it was politically
impossible to introduce further sizeable tariff i.ncreases during 1983.
However, they confirmed that the Government accepted the fact that electricity
prices in Yugoslavia represented only about 50-60% of the long run marginal
cost of supplying electricity and that it intended to bring those prices in
line with international levels within a period of 4-5 years. To reflect this
objective, it was agreed to replace the cash generation requirement in the
existing and proposed power sector loan agreement:s by a provision which
stipulates that the electricity tariff (sales prices, including connection
charges and non-reimbursable consumer contributions for the construction of
fixed assets) will be increased by annual adjustments over a five-year period
ending December 31, 1987 to a level of not less than the average long run
marginal cost (LRMC) of supply of electricity. A tariff increase of 15% in
real tenms, representing the first adjustment in reaching the above objective,
will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Since it is difficult to
predict at this time with a sufficient degree of accuracy what further annual
adjustments will be required to reach long run marginal cost over the
five-year period, the agreements reached provide for the determination, in
agreement with the Bank, of a methodology to calculate such cost by January
31, 1984. In order to ensure compliance with the! financial covenants in the
future, and obtain confirmation that the responsible republican/provincial
authorities will take all necessary actions to erLable the borrowers to comply
with the provisions in the proposed loan agreement concerning tariff action,
project funding shortfalls, and the submission of financial data and audits of
power sector organizations other than the borrowers (see para. 5.11). It was
also agreed during negotiations that as a condition of loan effectiveness, the
borrowers will submit evidence satisfactory to the Bank that all necessary
agreements, approvals, consents or decisions have been concluded or obtained
with respect to matters which require the involvement of these authorities.
5.07          Although the cash generation covenants are being deleted, cash
generation will exceed the targets under those covenants if tariffs are
adjusted to a level reflecting LRMC, and should reach 30% or more in seven of
the eight republics/provinces in 1984. Summarized financial projections for
1983 and 1984 on the basis of the actual and agreed tariff increases for those
years are shown in Annex 5.1.  Preparation of financial projections beyond
1984 would not be meaningful at this stage, since the current Five-Year Plan
and in particular all investment plans are preserLtly being fundamentally
revised, and since the LRMC calculations will have to take the results of this
revision for the power sector into account. The Project itself represents an
insignificant proportion of the total power sector investment during the
project implementation period, estimated at less than 3%.



- 32 -
Accounti-ag System, Financial Statements, Revaluation of Assets
5.08     The financial statement format for all Yugoslav enterprises is
standardized as prescribed by law. The principal differences between Yugoslav
accounting policies and those adopted by the International Accounting
Standards Committee are described hereafter. Sales and certain other
revenues, such as interest receivable, are taken up as income only when
collected; other transactions are recorded on an accrual basis. The concept
of net income (Dohodak) differs from that in other countries in that it is
derived before deduction of expenditure for salaries and wages, interest on
debt and certain other liabilities which are treated as appropriations of
income; however, the accounts can be adapted to the Bank's customary format
for appraising public utility projects (see Annex 5.1). As mentioned in para.
5.05 above, under Yugoslav law fixed assets are revalued in any year in which
inflation has attained 10% or more since the last revaluation. Depreciation
is charged on the revalued fixed assets based on their estimated life, but may
be increased by supplementary amounts in order to provide funds for the
replacement of existing fixed assets or for the purchase of other fixed
assets. The revaluation reserve and the supplementary depreciation of groups
of fixed assets which are fully depreciated are credited to the business fund.
5.09     The First and Second Power Transmission Projects (Loans 836-YU and
1409-YU) included consulting components for the study of improvements in the
areas of accounting, financial planning and control and the establishment of
appropriate financial Management Information Systems. Progress in this area
has been slow for the following reasons:
(a)  neither JUGEL nor the republican/provincial Composite
Organiizations presently have the authority for effective control
of the finances of the Basic Organizations, and there is no
legal requirement for consolidated financial statements at the
republican/provincial level (although a combined income
statement is prepared);
(b)  until recently neither JUGEL nor most of the
republican/provincial Composite Organizations had suitable
financial counterpart management staff to initiate, and
participate in, such studies; and
(c) there are no local consulting firms experienced in carrying out
such studies.
However, JUGEL has now appointed an experienced financial manager and it is
expected that in the coming years most republics/provinces will follow JUGEL's
lead.
Audit
5.10     Under Section 5.02 of Loans 1469-YU and 1561-YU annual audits of the
accounts and financial statements of the borrowers are to be carried out by
the Social Accounting Service (SDK) or another competent auditing organization
acceptable to the Bank. In practice, except in the most unusual
circumstanoes, all Yugoslav audits are carried out by SDK.  Until a few years
ago, SDK did not have the competence to carry out audits in conformity with



- 33 -
generally accepted auditing standards and its certifications were based on
reviews of very limited scope. However, at the instance of the Bank, and with
its full support and encouragement, SDK established a Special Audit Group to
audit enterprises in receipt of Bank Group financi.ng. This Group, which has
been under training and development since 1974, now carries out audits for a
large number of project enterprises to international standards. Since its
resources are still limited, it has only recently begun work in the power
sector but, for the financial year 1983, audit reFports are expected to be
received for all republican/provincial power organizations.
5.11     As regards the audit and financial reporting requirements for the
Third Transmission Project, it is proposed to extend these to (a) the
distribution enterprises in all republics/provinces where these enterprises
have formed joint composite organizations with the generation and transmission
enterprises, (b) all enterprises under formation for the construction of power
plants (which legally become members of the work and composite organizations
only when the plant is commissioned), and (c) the accounts of the power sector
Community of Interest in republics/provinces such as Croatia and Slovenia,
where the Community of Interest acts as custodian for power sector funds and
where the absence of such audit has resulted in qualifications in the audit
reports of the power organizations. As regards the date at which audit
reports are to be submitted to the Bank, experience has shown that a period of
six months after year-end for submission of audited accounts is not attainable
in the foreseeable future (for a number of reasons: large numbers of power
sector organizations to be audited; limited staff of SDK special audit group;
difficulty of carrying out audit work while the accounts are being closed
during the first three months after year-end; need for extensive work to adapt
local financial statements to Bank's customary format, which can be started
only after the accounts are closed; delays in management clearance of audit
reports during summer vacation period; mailing delays of 6-8 weeks). In the
past, the audit reports have been received about 9-11 months after the close
of the year and accordingly, it is proposed to extend the time for submission
of audited accounts to nine months after year-end (para. 6.06).
Insurance
5.12     Since 1979, all insurance arrangements are made separately inI each
republic/province by the local electric power organizations on the basis of
long-term agreements which are generally for a duration of 10 years. The
risks covered generally are as follows:
(a) boiler explosion;
(b) fire (general and electrical);
(c) breakage and breakdown of plant and equipment;
(d) glass breakage, burglary, motor vehicle accidents;
(e) workers' compensation;
(f) domestic and international transport.
Assets under construction are insured by the contractors.
5.13     These arrangements are satisfactory.



- 34 -
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.01     The Borrowers and JUGEL have agreed to:
(a)  review annually their medium and short-term investment program along
the lines of achieving economic optimization of investment choices
(para. 1.03);
(b)  annually exchange views with the Bank on the investment program
(para. 1.03);
(c)  supply to the Bank before Board presentation the following executed
and duly approved instruments: (i) Self-management Agreement on
Joint Operation of the Yugoslav Electric Power System, dated December
16, 1981; (ii) Self-management Agreement on the Premises of
Harmonization of Development Plans of Electric Power Organizations
Associated in the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry, dated
October 14, 1980; (iii) Self-management Agreement on Construction
Coordination of the Energy Management System in the Yugoslav Electric
Power System and Joint Construction of the Dispatch Center of JUGEL;
and (iv) Creation, Appointing, and Work of the Coordinating Committee
for Construction of the Energy Management System in the Yugoslav
Electric Power System (para. 3.18);
(d)  establish the Coordinating Committee for the Construction of the
Yugoslav Energy Management System (para. 3.18); and
(e)  submit evidence confirming that all local financing arrangements
required have been made. Any evidence not submitted prior to Board
presentation would have to be submitted as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.13)
6.02     Electricity prices will be increased by annual adjustments over a
five-year period ending December 31, 1987 to a level of not less than the
average long-run marginal cost of supply of electricity. A tariff increase of
15% in real terms, representing the first adjustment, will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. Further annual adjustments will be based on a
methodology to be determined in agreement with the Bank by January 31, 1984.
As a condition of loan effectiveness, the borrowers will submit evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that all necessary agreements, approvals, consents or
decisions have been concluded or obtained with respect to matters which
require the involvement of republican/provincial authorities (tariff action,
Project funding shortfalls, audit requirements) (para 5.06).
6.03     The audit and financial reporting requirements will be extended to
(a) the distribution enterprises in republics/provinces where these enter-
prises have formed joint composite organizations with the generation and
transmission enterprises, (b) all enterprises under formation for the construc-
tion of power plants, and (c) the power sector Community of Interest in
republics/provinces where this Community acts as custodian for power sector
funds; the date for submission of audit reports to the Bank will be extended
to nine months after year-end (para 5.11).



- 35 -
6.04     Subject to the foregoing, the proposed Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$120 million, for a term of 15 years including three years' grace,
to the eight borrowers described in this report, with the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
April 1983
(0754P)



- -6 _
ANNEX 2.1
Page I of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Borrowers/Project Entities
ORGANIZATION CHARTS
(January 1, 1981)
The organization chart for each of eight borrowers is shown on pages
2-9 and for JUGEL on page 10 of this Annex. The table below summarizes the
numbers of organizations affiliated with each borrower and their personnel:
Annex 2.1                                                  Basic
Page      Republic/Province          Borrowers       Organizations      Personnel
Number -------                   (End-1980)
2      Bosnia & Herzegovina                  1              98              12,760
3      Croatia                               1              96              16,193
4      Macedonia                             1               9               1,948
5      Montenegro                            1               6               1,360
6      Serbia                                1              34               5,700
7      Kosovo                                1              23               9,105
8      Vojvodina                             1              27               3,619
9      Slovenia                              1              57               7,754
8             350             58,439
10      JUGEL                                 -               1                 150
8             351             58,589
(778P)



- 37 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Republic of Bosnia & Herzegovina
Elektroprivreda BiH - Serajevo
Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
-Number of -             ---
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BiH                                   BOrgansiczaton    Personnel
Workers' Ccuncil
Executive Board
Chairman of the Business Board                                               I
Business Board                                                               4
Work Community Joint Services                                 1            154
Work Community Eletric Power Institute                        1             33
Work Cormunity Internal Bank                                  1             22
T.S. Kakanj                                            1           769
T.S. Tuzia                                            4          1,376
H.S. on Neretva                                       4            626
_H.S. on Vrbas                                        4            200
_H.S. on Trebisnjica                                  6            626
Vz    Elektroprenos                                         6            987
0
Elektro-KraJina                                        13          1,317
N                    .
z  - Cascade on Una                                         9            383
o _  Elektro-Doboj                                         8&            415
Elektro-Herzegovina                                  '9            983
_  Vladimir Peric-Valter                                 9          1,494
_  Elektro-Tuzla                                        12         1,549
Middle Bosnia Distribution                            6            577
ti.S. on Drina                                        1             31
T.S. Ugljevik                                         1            629
T.S. Gacko                                            1            539
H.S. Bocac                                            1             45
98       12,760



- 38 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 3 of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Republic of Croatia
ZEOH - Zagreb
Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
-------Number of -------
Basic       Personnel
Organiizations
Z E O H
Assernbly
Executive Board
General Manager
Legal and Administration                                       1            147
Economics, Finance
Development
Power Operations
=H.S. Dubrovnik                                        1            102
1- Eiektroprivreda Rijeka                                  7          1,069
n _  Elektroprivreda Dalmacije                                9            879
-   Elektroprivreda Zagreb                              10         2,144
Elektroslavonija Osijek                               11          2,329
L  Elektrodalmacija Split                                 14          2,540
z  I- EElektra Sisak                                          3            516
Elektroistra Pula                                      1            808
_  Elektra Zagreb                                        23          3,938
_   Elektra Kar9ovac                                 7            625
96        16,193



- 39 -
ANNEX 2.1
Pa-ge  o-of IO
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Republic of Macedonia
Elektrostopanstvo - Skopje
Power Generation and Transmission
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
-------Number of-
Basic
ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO                                        Organizatons   Personnel
Workers' Council
Executive Board
Board of Directors
Ass. General Manager                                                         1
. .          _                             ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~1 115
Engineering
Studies, Development, Investments
Accounting
Legal arnd Administration
_  H.S. Mavrovo                                            1            412
-     H.S. Spiljc                                             1             82
r- _ H.S. Globocica                                           1           215
-H.S. rikves                                             1             57
.  - H.S. Kalimanci                                           1             17
x     Elektroprenos                                           1           210
LU_
E - 
T.P. Negotino                                           1            320
T.P. Osl o.,e,Lj                                        1           520
9          1,948



- 40 -                         ANNEX 2.1
Page 5 of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Republic of Montenegro
Elektroprivreda Crne Gore - Niksic
Power Generation and Transmission
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
-----,Number of
Basi          Pescre
Organizatiors   Pesrsonnl
ELEKTROPRIVREDA CRNE GORE
Workers' COnillil
Executive  Board
General Manager
Deputy General Manager
r==-    -  -  _  g   1  70
Economics, Finance
Dispatching, Sales
Deve lopment
General Services
z
t- _   5.5. Peru6ica                                             1            290
z i- H.S. Piva                                                   1            210
o  _ T.S. Pljevlja                                               1            260
CY-,   Elektroprenos                                             1            220
I Titoq rad
L  Elektrogradnja                                             1            310
6          1,360



- 41 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page -6of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Republic of Serbia
Zdruzena Elektroprivreda - Beograd
Power Generation and Traiasmission
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
------- Number of -------
Basic
Z[)RU1E,]JA P,  E.Fi<'TFROFPRViVRE0DA                               Organizations    Personnel
Wlor.,cr s C Guci 1. r.c
Exectutive  i3oa rd
Pc   -aty      a enerai 1eilaCer                                            1               180
Joint Service                    I
-i . S.   a  r  B    a                                                  1              222
H.S. Vlah-&&            J                                          1               224
-- rA .5. D-ierdiap;  |                                    1               784
.  - --   !-r . ; .  ;   Is !:      o3rnsC # t 1;/v~~ (   t  2        77
~~~ " ~~~~~vo:nK                              1 ~~~~~~~~121
o~~~        vo .   r _ _ __. .
-   H.S .  i:m;le                                                      3               252
L)-8  1.5S  ;'  gr,-,ic       1                                                         116
T. M>Dra. .'a                                                      1              263
- . -  i c                                         3            1 ,214
V--   . 'I. ! olu'.,                                                 ....ua  3       674
0o 1o1                                                     3               368
EIJ,-ls,/,x,,;-,kol     $                                          9              891
LnL         L    . N   1 1.   1                                        1               14
34           5,700



- 42-                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 7 of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Autonomous Province of Kosovo
Elektroprivreda Kosova - Pristina
Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
------- Number of -------
Basic       Personnel
Organizations
ELEKTROPRIVREDA KOSOVA
Workers' Council
Executive Board
Chairman of  i- Business Board                                                I
Business  Boa,,                                                              5
Work Community Common Services                                 1           130
Work Community Internal Bank                                   1            40
L(
T.S. Kosovo A                                          1          1,450
<  _  T.S. Kosovo B                                           1            244
cz
< -Mines "Kosovo"                                          4         3,910
o)  - H.S. Gazivode                                           1             30
(I)
LU  _Elektroprenos                                            1             58
E:
- Distribution                                                9          1,472
Energetika i Hemija                                    4          1,765
23         9.105



- 43 -                            ANNEX 2 .1
Page 8of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Autonomous Province of Vojvodina
Elektrovojvodina - Nov:i Sad
Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
-------Number of --
BasicPesnl
ELEKTROVOJVOD [NA                                           organi zaLions   P
IWorkers' Council
Executive Board
Chairman of the Bussiness Boatd
Business Board
Work Comnmunity ERC                                                1              52
Work Cornrnunity Special Services
_       _    _                              }     2               113
Work Community internal Bank
_  T.S. Novi Sad                                          1             171
N  L  T.S. Suboticji                                      1              76
Distri buLiof                                     10           1,955
to  _  Elektroprt2no5                                     1             202
m L  Flcktroiz-;rucdnJ ja                                10             991
t2                                                                    3
Rc_ .c rua ti On Ciuri tcr-                            1             56
27          3, 619



- 44 -                                  ANNEX  2.1
Page 9 of 10
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Republic of Slovenia
Elektrogospodarstvo Slovenije - Maribor
Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution
ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1, 1981)
-Number of -------
Basic       Personnel
Organizations
ELEKTROGOSPOGARSTVO SLOVENIJE
Assembly Community of Interest
Zdruiena elek: 2 ogospodars . .
podjetja Slov.en.ije
Workers' Council
General ;1anager
Development and Investments
Power Operations                                                  1            170
Ec.,nomic and Financial
Adriinistration, Personnel
Stcretar i at
7     __ .____   _
_ H.S.on oDrava                                             12             8no
H- .S. on Sava                                               4             283
_  H.S. on SOC3                                                5              77
r-., J_                   _
-    T.S. Brestinica                                         1             198
T.S. ijuiOljana                                           I204
., -  =.5. S, t.Lnj                                             4            712
K j.S. Trbovlje                                              2             497
L  Distributiori Slovenia                                   26          4,593
_  N.S. Kr,ko                                                            140
57          7,754



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Jugel Organization Chart
Total Staff (Jan. 1,1981): 150
ASSEMBLY
EXECUTIVE BOARD
GENERAL MANAGER
| AND ASSISTANTS 
_  UNINBDIE                   _    COORD INATING                 _      ENGItNEERING                 _      D ISPATCPII NG                        EVCS               l    _     AM    SRTO
Coordinating                       Hydro Power                          Dispatch iond Planninlg                                                 Legal
General Manager's                   Committee for                          Station                            Pa     nnn n                                                       Department
380 KV Systers                       Department                        Department                          Department                         Dpt
Coordinat,.ino                      -ITheralPower                     Scheduling
'e.'.~ ~ ~~ ~~eareen                                    Department       |           |Acutn    atr  
CoMmit   fDeptartiont                           Department                                           o
inmernareorsal        ~Coor.dintin,g Corn-                  Nu~-clear Power                      Operations                       7
Acsay  itenfo  Ksonstation        Planning                         Statistics and
Deisarterent  Plants and Others                    ~~~Department                      Department                         Analycic Jobs                       Dprmn
Transmissiot              ~~~Information                      Group for
EneySystem                                   Financial and                         Ahives
Department               ~~~~Department                  Accounting Matters
-Ddu,nBra  ory
World Bank-241Y9
o
0



46 -                  ANNEX 3.1
Page I of 6
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Technical Details of Project
Structure of EMS
1.       The overall EMS Project consist of nine dispatch systems:  six
republican, two provincial, and one federal. The control structure is
hierarchical, so that the management of the Yugoslav interconnected power
system will be carried out in close cooperation and coordination between the
Federal Dispatch Center (Control Level 1) and the republican/provincial
dispatch centers (Control Level 2). The responsibilities and functions of the
different levels of control are explained by means of the diagram in
Attachment 1. In essence, the EMS consist of tbree broad technical areas;
(1) Operation planning or predictive management;
(2) Real-time on-line management; and
(3) Telecommunications.
However, for the purpose of design, equipment procurement, and implementation,
the EMS has been broken down into a set of five technical subsystems or major
areas of work:
(i)    Operation Planning System (OPS);
(ii)    Real-Time Control System (RTCS);
(iii)    Data Communication Network (DCN);
(iv)    Telecommunication System (TCS); and
(v)    Equipment in Power Facilities (EPF) including Remote Terminal
Units (RTUs) and Local Interface Equipment (LI).
Operation Planning System (OPS)
2.       The Operation Planning System encompasses mainly pre-dispatching and
post-dispatching functions. The pre-dispatching functions are concerned with
predictive or operating planning functions which consist of determining the
best operating policy and strategy for future operation of generation and
transmission capacities under conditions of security, economy, and quality.
The post-dispatching functions comprise the various logging, reporting, and
accounting functions in order to provide good statistical data on the past
operation of the system. The final results of pre-dispatching activities are
the schedules and constraints for the real-time system operation, while
post-dispatching provides statistic and analysis of past operation as a base
for best prediction of future operation. The OPS includes also all functions
connected with energy accounting, cost/benefit calculation, and equitable
allocation of net savings to the republican/provincial power organizations due



- 47 -                  ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 6
to joint (pool) operation. In general the annual, monthly, and weekly
planning cycles will be executed in the OPS. Daily scheduling will be done
initially in the OPS, but will be transferred later (after commissioning of
the Real-Time Control System) in real-time environment (as extended real-time
functions). The operations planning functions typically include:
- Short- and medium-term load forecast,
- Units Commitment,
- Hydrogeneration and thermal generation scheduling,
- River basin hydro optimization,
- Maintenance scheduling,
- Interchange transaction evaluation,
- Energy transactions scheduling and accounting,
- Security analysis studies,
- Load-flow calculations.
In principle, all functions listed above will be required both at the Federal
(JUGEL) level and at the republican/provincial level. Although the OPS
functions, due to their complexity, impose a heavy computational burden they
are not time-critical. Therefore, both JUGEL's and the republican/
provincial's dispatcb centers require computer resources of the off-line batch
processing computer system. To fulfill these requirements, a configuration of
the OPS was adopted with one common large central computer facility to which
have access all other dispatcb centers througb remote terminal systems. This
will enable the effective sbaring of the central computer resources at the
Federal Dispatch Center and will enable standardization of OPS software on a
nation-wide basis, as well as facilitate the required transfer of planning
data and results between JUGEL and republican/provincial power organizations.
The proposed overall configuration of the OPS is sbown in Attachment 2. The
hardware structure of the central computing facility at JUGEL is explained on
the block diagram in Attachment 3, while the strucature of the remote terminals
is given in Attachment 4. Remote terminals can communicate with the central
computer facility as intelligent remote terminals but can be used
simultaneously for local data processing purposes. However, the particular
needs of three large power organizations (Croatia, Bosnia, and Serbia) justify
the installation of terminal systems based on large-computer structure.
Communication between the OPS and the RTCS for the purpose of data exchange is
foreseen by means of magnetic tapes or through direct data-link at each
dispatch center.
Real-Time Control System
3.       Dispatching or on-line real-time control is the crucial and most
important function in state-of-the-art management of power systems. While
operations planning represents the preparation of the operating strategy,
through successive steps of long-term, medium-term, and short-term forecasting
of the future operating conditions, the real-time control represents the
current confrontation with reality, that is with actual conditions of system
operation. The main objective of real-time control are to assure at all times
the balance between generation and load requirements under the best conditions
of security and quality of service and at the lowest possible operating cost.
Although the OPS through forecasted schedules determines the operating economy
to a large degree, and through selected operating structure of generation and
transmission capacities provides the required security level of operation,



- 48 -                     ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 6
further refinements are necessary at actual time of system operation in order
to maximize operating economy as well as to ensure security margin and
integrity of the power system under any operating conditions. (The modern
power system control approach recognizes five operating states shown in
Attachment 5). In order to achieve these objectives, a number of functions
have to be executed in different time domains ("near real time", "actual real
time", and "extended real time"), whereas each of them is based on the usage
of actual data acquired directly from the power system. These RTCS functions
typically include:
(i)    In near real time domain (operation scheduling for from a few
hours to up to 48 subsequent hours):
- short-term load forecasting,
- generation scheduling,
- hydro-thermal coordination,
- interchange transaction evaluation and schedulling,
- energy accounting,
- bus load forecast;
(ii)    In actual real time (functions which are executed on a second-to
second or minute-to-minute basis);
- data acquisition and supervisory control (SCADA),
- man-machine interface (MMI),
- load-frequency control/automatic generation control (LFG/AGC),
- economy dispatch calculation (EDC),
- reserve monitoring,
- alarm monitoring,
- data logging;
(iii)    In extended real time (functions which are executed in 5, 10, or
more minutes cycle):
- model up-date,
- state estimation,
- external network equivalencing,
- security analysis,
- corrective rescheduling (remedial action),
- security constrained dispatch,
- voltage/VAR dispatch.
4.       In principle, all the above functions are required both at the
Federal (JUGEL) and at the republican/provincial levels. Each
republican/provincial dispatch center must be fully capable to monitor,
control, optimize, and assess the security of its own power system. Likewise,
JUGEL's dispatch center will be able to monitor the operation of the Yugoslav
interconnected power system as a whole and to coordinate the work of the
republican/provincial dispatch centers in order to maintain the integrity of
the interconnected system, power balance from the system as a whole and for
eacb individual republican/provincial power system, as well as security margin
and operating economy to the extent consistent with the criteria adopted in
the joint operation agreement between the power pool partners.
5.       Because of the nature of real-time control and direct responsibility
of each dispatch center - under the hierarchical structure of the EMS - for
the real-time operation of the concerned power system, it is not practicably



- 49 -                      ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 6
possible to combine the data processing facilities at the FDC, as in the case
of the OPS. Therefore, each of the nine dispatch centers must have its own
real-time computer system. The overall configuration of the real-time system
is shown in Attachment 6. Since the real-time functions are time-critical and
need fast response times, the nine computer systens are based on process
computers for real-time application. Each computer system will consist of
dual redundant computers to provide the high degree of reliability required in
dispatch center real-time on-line control. The proposed configuration of the
real-time computer system for all of the nine dispatch centers is shown in
Attachment 7.
Data Communication Network
6.       The Data Communication Network (DCN) together with Remote Terminal
Units (RTUs) and Local Interface (LI) devices in power facilities constitutes
the Data Acquisition and Transmission System (DATS) which is to provide a
continuous two-way data flow between the real-time computer systems at the
dispatch centers and the power system (generating plants and substations) for
on-line real-time power system control. The DCN will be organized as sbown in
Attachment 8. Depending on the location in the network, there are three types
of Intelligent Communication Devices (ICDs): "local ICD", "republic/province
dispatch center ICD"' and "JUGEL dispatch center ICD". The forwarding of data
through the DCN will be done as a rule following t:he "tree structure", wbich
means that data concerning the FDC (JUGEL dispatch center) will be forwarded
from concentrating points ("local ICDs") to "JUGEI. dispatch center ICD" via
"republican/provincial dispatch centers ICDs". Communication capabilities of
ICDe, however, enable the accomplishment of back-up and alternate routes in
the DCN both for the FDC and republican/provincial dispatch centers, as well
as transversal links (for example between adjacenl: republic/province dispatch
centers). The actual need for these additional linkages is being investigated
as part of the bid-level design.
7.       The IDCS will be programable dual miniprocessors, capable to perform
the following data acquisition and communication 'Eunctions.
- scanning Remote Terminal Units,
- data concentration,
- data routing,
- data command security,
- error detection and correction,
- communication line protocols,
- interface to real-time computers and olther ICDs,
- transmission priority.
The functional structure is despicted in Attachmenit 9. Besides full
redundancy of hardware modules and software for maximum reliability, all
software and tables will be resident in both core memories, hence no
peripherals are required.
8.       Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) with associated Local Interface (LI)
equipment, as constituent part of the Data Acquisition and Transmission
System, represent the end points of real-time control system located in power
plants and substations. Local Interface includes measuring transducers of
electric quantities, measuring transducers of no-electrical quantities



- 50 -                  ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 6
(pressure, flow, level, temperature, etc.), and isolating equipment and
auxiliary relays. The measuring transducers serve for conversion and
continuing the analog signal between the power system equipment and the RTUs,
while the isolating equipment and auxiliary relays play the same role for
digital signals. The purpose of the RTUs is to perform an acquisition of
different data (analog and digital measurements, status of switchable devices,
indications and alarms, sequence of events, etc.) and to transmit these data
to the concentrating joints (local ICD) to which the RTU is connected via
appropriate communication channels.
Telecommunications System
9.       Real-time on-line power system control requires a degree of
telecommunication capacity and availability only possible at the present time
with wide-band private microwave radio links under the direct control of the
power utilities own operating and maintenance personnel. The proposed EMS
Project includes the basic network of microwave radio links needed to connect
the FDC (JUGEL DC) with the republican/provincial dispatch centers, with the
major generating and transmission nodes of the Yugoslav power system (mainly
380 kV substations), area control centers, and other places of channel
concentration from local networks. The layout of radio network configuration
is shown in Map IBRD 16670. Essentially, the main trunk links will follow
existing communication network routes in order to share existing buildings,
towers, and support facilities. In order to achieve bigh quality of the
links, the basic structure of the multiplex system is composed on the
supergroup 1/ principle (consisting of 2, 5, or 16 supergroups), which will
enable direct mutual connecting of all terminal points in the microwave
network on the level of supergroup without modulation/demodulation
transpositions in the intermediate radio-relay points. The proposed plan of
supergroups is shown in Attachment 10.
Manpower Requirements
10.      Manpower requirements for project implementation and for operation,
maintenance, management, and modification of the EMS are shown in
Attachment 11.
Training Component Program
II.      A detailed program for training of personnel who will be involved in
project implementation operation, maintenance, and development of the EMS is
shown in Attachment 12. The training program execution plan is now under
preparation as part of system design work.
1/ 60 Channels.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 6 of 6
Hardware configuration for EMS
12.      Attachment 13 summarizes the main characteristics of the hardware
which is proposed in the Project for the different dispatch centers.
(807P, pp. 1)



HIERARCHICAL STRUCTURE OF YUGOSLAV EMS
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONS
HIERARCHICAL CONTROL LEVELS
 Responsible for functioning of the Yugoslav power system as a single
technical and technological entity.
FDC                              *  Coordinates the operation of Republic and Province power systems in
LEVEL 1:                                    (JUGEL DC}                              order to achieve optimal operation of Yugoslav power system as a
Federal Level                                          _                             whole from security, economy and quality point of view.
v  Typical functions: LFC (System frequency/International and
I nterrepublic Interchanges), Economy Transactions, Security Analysis
of the 380 and 220 kV Network, Reserve Monitoring, Benefits
Allocation etc.
LEVEL 2:                   RDC/PDC           RDC/PDC                            e  Responsible for the management of Republic/Province power system
Republic/Province Level                                                             as the independent operating area within the Yugoslav power system.
_  Coordinates the operation of Area Control Centers (if any).                             I
*  Typical functions: AGC, Economy Dispatch, Security Analysis,
Supervisory Control, Operations Planning etc.
LEVEL 3:                                                               ACC       *  Responsible for the management of hydro plants on the same water
Area Levei                                                                           water course and/or local transmission network.
e  Typical functions: Hourly Optimization of Hydro Plants, Supervisory
Control etc.
POWER PLANTS AND TRANSMISSION SUBSTATIONS
rt
Word Bnk-417



OPERATIONS PLANNING SYSTEM CONFIGURATION SCHEMATIC
rJUGEL
|BTS
JUGEL                       CENTRAL OPERATIONS
REALTIME                      PLANNING COMPUTER
SYSTEM                            FACI LITY
NN.
_~ /    No~_
I  c,  I    I   cl  ~- I          I     -c--   I                                        N. , L   c     _         ,     I     I      c
LOVENA                                     I _ R|AIA     M                                     SErBI I         IAEDW
<1  S1  1=-1~~~~~~CT  NEGO  DINA1S;   1X
ISMCTS   |            LCTS               CT                  i                 IN5LCTS                               MCTS                MCTS
,~~.. s                                                                               E                  7- /7 7N  N  
LEGEND:
-Two-way Data Ffow
C l   -Communication I ntedace (rnodems and/or telecommunication controller)      with Local RTS
MCTS -Minicomputer based Terminal System                                          (by magnetic tapes or
LCTS  -Largecomputer based TeTminal System                                        direct data-link)
BTS   -TBatch Terminal SystemST
RTS  -Real Time   se   System
World Bank-24174



SIMPLIFIED BLOCK DIAGRAM OF CENTRAL OPERATIONS PLANNING COMPUTER FACILITY
INTERACTIVE CRT'S    j Screen + Keyboard (x8)
Disc Controller
BULK STORAGE        and 1st drive 1%2)
LARGE SCALE GENERAL                          SUBSYSTEM         Disc Drive Unit (x4)
JUGEL                         PURPOSE COMPUTER
R EMOTE
TERMINAL                       - CENTRAL MEMORY -                                             Dual discette
4- BYESPERIPHERAL                                          reader (xl)
4 MBYTES                              SUBSYSTEM         Line Printer (x2)
._________________    Magnetic Tape Unit (x6)
.    n
COMMUNICATION             Controllers (x8)
to JUGEL RTS             __ __ INTERFACE                      Modems (x8)
I  I  I I   I  I  Ii
to Republic/Province
Terminal Systems
World Bank-24175
rt



PRINCIPLE STRUCTURE OF REPUBLIC/PROVINCE REMOTE TERMINAL SYSTEMS
I/O Terminal
Disc units
Magnetic tape units       Line printer
I/
LARGE ORll
MINI COMPUTER
COMM UNI CATION                                                                 m
UNIT                                0 lL_
Interactive CRT's
MODEM
n r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
to Central Computer
Facility
World Bank-24176
rt



OPERATING STATES OF POWER SYSTEM
_  NORMAL OPERATING STATE in which neither the equality constraints (generation-
NORMAL                                  load) nor the inequality constraints (voltage, line flows) are violated. In addition, the
STATE                                  system reserve (generation, transmission) are adequate to meet specified contingency
criteria (e.g., a single contingency).
* ALERT OPERATING STATE in which neither the equality constraints nor the
inequality constraints are violated but reserve margins are inadequate to meet the
RESTORATIVE                   ALERT                     specified contingency criteria.
STATE                     STATE
* EMERGENCY OPERATING STATE in which the inequality constraints are violated
and no reserve margins exist.                                                           ON
"I N EXTREMIS"             EMERGENCY                 * "IN EXTREMIS" OPERATING STATE where the system is no longer intact. Both
STATE                     STATE                    sets of constraints are violated and the protection of equipment and minimization
of damage is of paramount importance.
* RESTORATIVE OPERATING STATE where the system is being put back together.
The result of this state is a transmission to either the Normal or the Alert Operating
States depending on the circumstances.
I> j
rt
World Bank-24177       =I
Un



REAL TIME SYSTEMS OVERALL CONFIGURATION
RTS
JUG EL
RTS            RTS             RTS             RTS             RTS              RTS             RTS             RTS
Sarajevo        Zagreb          Skopje         Titograd         Beograd         Pristina       Novi Sad        Ljubljana
A A~~~~~~~~ 
Un
DATA COMMUNICATION NETWORK
[                                              REMOTE TERMINAL UNITS
[                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER SYSTEM
World Bank-241 78          l 
II                                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
rt
Cs%



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 7
REAL TIME COMPUTER SYSTEM
CONFIGURATION SCHEMATIC
LOCAL I/O
SUBSYSTEM
MAN MACHINE
SUBSYSTEM
BULK STORAGE
SUBSYSTEM
PERIPHERAL
SUBSYSTEM
1/O        MAIN PROCESSOR                              MAIN PROCESSOR
TERM.   l        A              INTERPROCESSOR     l 
r__
I FRONT- END                               I  FRONT END 
I PROCESSOR                 I              IPROCESSORI
A                                     I    8
TO DATA COMMUNICATION NETWORK
World Bank-24179



DATA COMMUNICATION NETWORK CONFIGURATION SCHEMATIC
RTS       JUGEL DC
| ICD|
REPUBLIC/
RTS                       <3}{3PROVINCE DC's
/   \  I  |   \  /   |  ICD   |   RTS  AREA CC's
LEGEND:
ICD   = Intelligent Comm. Device
II\|-    = Normal Communication Way
ICD               ICD                                                           ICD /   j  1  0  )  )       RTU's = Remote Terminal Units
RTS  = Real Time System
git'
ox
RTU's
World Bank-24180Dr



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 9
FUNCTIONAL STRUCTURE OF INTELLIGENT
COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE (ICD)
PROCESSOR       INTERPROCESSOR       PROCESSOR
A        COMMUNICATIONS       _
COMMUNICATIONS INTERFACE
(BUFFERS, MODENS, MULTIPLEXORS, ETC.)
TO RTU's                 TO LOCAL                    TO OTHER ICD's
REAL TIME
SYSTEM
World Bank-24181



PLAN OF SUPER-GROUPS ALLOCATION
_   4JUGLE4L DC 
|   LJ DC    H   ZG DC   H     SA DC   H       TG Dc            S G DC   H      NS DC            PR DC           SK DC l
TERMINAL POINTS
SUPER-GROUP
(60 Channels)                                                                                                 It
World Bank-24182
rt



- 62 -
ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 11
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Total Manpower Requirement for EMS
Number
Serbia
Training Area                    Type of Personnel                  Croatia    Monte-
JUGEL   B i H       negro        Kosovo         Total
Slovenia   Macedonia   Vojvodina
1.  Project Management        Project Managers 6
Assistants                   2-4    2-4 each   2-4 each   2-4 each           18-36
Total                      2-4    2-4 each   2-4 each   2-4 each           18-36
2. Project Implementation
2.1 Microwave             Commmun. Engineer            1       1 each      I each      1 each              9
2.2 Data Comm. Network:
a) Hardware           Data Comm. Engineer          1-2    2 each       I each     1 each            13-14
b) Software           Programmer                   1-2    2 each       1 each     1 each            13-14
2.3 Real Time System:
a) Hardware           Lead System Eng.             1-2    1 each       1 each     1 each             9-10
Hardware Engineer            1      2 each      2 each      1 each           15
b) Software           Lead System Analyst          1-2    1 each          -           -              5-6
(basic)            System Analyst               1      1 each      1 each      1 each            9
Programmer                   -         -           -           -        Same people
as for 2.3 b
c) Software           Lead System Analyst          -          -           -          -        Same people
(extended)                                                                                 as for 2.3 b
System Analyst               2      2 each      1 each      1 each           14
Programmer                   2      2 each      2 each      1 each           16
2.4 Remote Terminal
Units                 RTU Engineer                 1       2 each      1 each     1 each            13
2.5 Operations Plan-
ning System:
a) Hardware           Lead System Engineer         1-2    1 each          -           -              5-6
Hardware Engineer            I      I each      I each      I each            9
b) Software           Lead System Analyst          1          -           -           -              1
(basic)            System Analyst               1      1 each      1 each      1 each            9
Programmer                   2      2 each      1 each      1 each           14
c) Software           Lead System Analyst          -       1 each         -          -              4
(complex)          System Analyst               1      1 each      1 each      1 each            9
Programmer                   -         -           -           -        Same people
as for 2.5 b
Total                  19-24   23 each    15 each    13 each           167-172
September 1982
(789P,p.9)



- 63 -
ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 11
Page 2 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Total Manpower Requirement for EMS
Number
Serbia
Training Area                    Type of Personnel                    Croatia    Monte-
JUGEL   B i H       negro        Kosovo          Total
Slovenia   Macedonia   Vojvodina
3. System Maintenance
3.1 Microwave              Comm. Technicians            2       4 eac:h     2 each      2 each          26
3.2 Data Comm. Network   DCN Technicians                1       3 each      2 each      2 each          19
3.3) &
3.4) Real Time System    RTS Technicians                3       3 each      2 each      2 each          21
3.5 Remote Terminal
Units                 RTU Technicians               1       3 each      2 each      2 each          19
3.6 Operations Plan-
ning System           OPS Technicians               2      2 each       1 each      1 each          13
Total                     9       15 each    9 each      9 each          105
4. System Operation
4.1 System Operation       Dispatch Center              1       1 each      1 each      1 each            9
Management            Director
Department Manager           3       3 each      3 each      2 each
4.2 Dispatcher             Lead Dispatcher              5       5 each      5 each         -            35
Training              Dispatchers                  10       10 each    10 each    10 each           90
4.3 Power Scheduling       Scheduling and Plan-
and Interchange       ning Engineers                2       2 each      2 each      I each          16
Accounting Training
Total                   21      21 each    21 each    14 each           175
5.  System Modification/       Lead System Analyst           -                                          Same people
Expansion                                                                                           as for 2.3 b
System Analysts              2       2 each      1 each      1 each           14
Programmer                   2       2 each      1 each      1 each           14
Total                    4      4 each      2 each      2 each            28
TOTAL                       55-62   65-67        49-51       40-42          493-516
each       each         each
August 1982
(789P,p.10)



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING           COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION      NUMBER OF PERSONNEL       PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS       PREREQUISITES      LOCATION      CATEGORY
1. Project Familia-   1.1  Project Management    (6) weeks    (2-4) JUGEL              . Electrical Engineering Degree  . Knowledge         Utility or         A
rization/Management   Classroom, Training                       (2-4) Each Republic       Power System Operations           of Power        Consultants
Techniques                                                       (2-4) Each Province     Experience                         System Ope-    Facilities
Total:                 . (10) or more years of              rations
(18-36) Project          overall experience
Managers and Lead
Engineers
1.2 EMS State-of-the-Art   (2) weeks    (9-10) Project          Same as above                      Same as above  . Vendor Fa-          A
Training                                 Managers                                                                    cilities
1.3 Pool/Utility Opera-    (2) weeks    (9-10) Project          Same as above                      Same as above  . Utility             A
tions Training                           Managers                                                                    Installations
1.4 On the Job Participa-  Duration      Project Managers       Same as above                      Same as above  . Consultants         B
tion Training               of Project   and Lead System                                                             Facilities
. Spec. Writing                          Engineers                                                                 . Utility
. Bid Evaluation                                                                                                     Facilities
. Contract Negotiation                                                                                             . Vendor
. Project Implementation                                                                                             Facilities               a,
1.5 Participation in        Duration     (9-10) Project         Same as above                      Same as above  Same as above         B
Executive portions of all  of Project   Managers
other Training programs
2. Project Imple-     2.1 Microwave Communi-       (7) weeks    (1) Communications    . Electrical Engineering Degree  . Knowledge    . Vendor Faci-           B
mentation              cations Training                         Engineer - JUGEL        . (5) or more years in commu-       of Basic        lities Prior
(1) Communications       nications system                  Commuunica-   . to Shipment
Engineer - Each                                             tion Tech-
Large Republic                                              nology
(1) Communications                                       . Knowledge of
Engineer - Each                                             principles
Smaller Republic                                           of FDM/FM or
plus Each Province                                         PCM/FM Micro-
Totals:                                                    wave Radio
(9) Communications                                         & Multiplex
Engineers
2.2 Data Communications    (6) weeks    (I)-(2) Hardware         . Electrical Engineering Degree  . Knowledge    . Vendor Faci-         B
Network-Hardware Training                Engineers - JUGEL       . (2) or more years of experi-      of Basic        lities Prior
(2) Hardware Engi-       ence with Real Time Systems       Digital Cir-   to Shipment
neers - Each large                                         cuit and
Republic                                                   Logic Design
n >X
(789P,p.ll)                                                                                                                                                      D   P
te0



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING           COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION      NUMBER OF PERSONNEL       PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS       PREREQUISITES      LOCATION      CATEGORY
(1) Hardware Engineer                                      Familiarity
- Each Smaller Repu-                                       with Test
blic + each Province                                        Equipment
Totals:                                                    normally used
(13)-14) Hardware                                          on digital
Engineers                                                   Equipment
2.3 Data Communications    (8) weeks    (l)-(2) Programmers   , Degree in Engineering Mathe-   . Knowledge of   Vendor Faci-             B
Network-Software Training                 JUGEL                    matics or Computer Science         Basic Prog-    lities Prior
(2) Programmers Each  . (2) or more years of Experi-       rammer Tech-   to Shipment
Large Republic           ence preferably with Real          niques
(1) Programmer Each      Time System                      . Familiarity
Siaaller Republic                                          with Real
plus Each Province                                          Time Systems
Total:
(13)-(14) Programmers
2.4 Real Time Systems -    (5)-(6)        (l)-(2) Lead System   . Same Qualifications as for        . Sams as for  . Vendor Faci-        B
Formal Hardware Training   months        Engineer - JUGEL          Course 2.2 plus Power System       Course 2.2      lities Prior
(I) Hardware Engineer   Experience highly desirable                        to Shipment
- JUGEL
(1) Lead System
Engineer & (2) Hard-
ware Engineer - Each
Large Republic
(1) Lead System
Engineer & (I) Hard-
ware Engineer - Each
Smaller Republic plus
Each Province
Totals:
(9)-(10) Lead System
Engineers
(13) Hardware Engineers
2.5 Real Time Systems -    (6)-(9)        Same as above          Same as above                     Same as above  . Vendor Faci-         B
on-the-job Hardware         months                                                                                    lities
Training                                                                                                            . Installation
Site
2.6 Real Time Systems       (2)-(3)       , Same Programmers    . Same as for 2.3 above for         . Same as for  . Vendor Faci-        B
Formal Software Training   months           as 2.3 above plus      Programmers                        Course 2.3      lities Prior
(l)-(2) Lead System   . For Systems Analysts               above for        to Shipment
Analysts               . Electrical Engineering Degree    Programmers                            N >.
(789P,p.12)                                                                                                                                                         N



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING            COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION       NUMBER OF PERSONNEL       PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS         PREREQUISITES       LOCATION      CATEGORY
(1) Systems Analyst   . (4) or more years Experience         For Systems
- JUGEL                   in Power System Engineering,       Analysts
(1) Lead Systems         Planning or Operations Super-  . Knowledge of
Analyst                   visory Capability                  Power System
(1) Systems Analyst                                          Analysis
- Each Large Repulic                                         Techniques
(1) Systems Analyst
for Each Smaller
Republic plus Each
Province
Totals:
(13)-(14) Programmers
(same people as for
Course 2.3)
(5)-(6) Lead Systems
Analysts
(9) Systems Analysts
2.6 Real Time Systems -    (2)-(3)         Same as above           Same as above                      Same as above  . Vendor Faci-          B
on-the-job Software          years                                                                                       lities
Training                                                                                                               . Installation
Site
2.8 Remote Terminal Unit   (4)-(6)         Same as for Course    Same as for Course 2.2               Same as for    . Vendor Faci-          B     o
Training                     weeks         2.2                                                        Course 2.2         lities Prior
Totals:                                                                       to Shipment
Same numbers as for
Course 2.2
2.9 Operations Planning    (5)-(6)         (l)-(2) Lead Systems  . Electrical Engineering Degree  . Knowledge of . Vendor Faci-              B
System Hardware Training   months          Engineers               . (2) or more years Experience       Basic Digi-    lities
(1) Hardware Engineer   with Computer systems                tal Circuit  . Installations
- JUGEL                                                      and Logic        Site
(1) Lead Systems                                             Design
Engineer                                                   . Familiarity
(1) Hardware Engineer                                        with Test
- Each Large Republic                                        Equipment
(1) Hardware Engineer                                        Normally
- Each Smaller Repu-                                         used on Digi-
blic + Each Province                                         tal Equipment
Totals:
(4)-(5) Lead System
Engineers
(9) Hardware Engineers                                                                             Pi
sm 
n X
0( ,
(789P,p. 13)                                                                                                                                                            r
ti-



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING           COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION      NUMBER OF PERSONNEL       PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS       PREREQUISITES      LOCATION      CATEGORY
2.10 Operations Planning   (5)-(6)        (1) Lead System Ana-  . Programmers Degree in Engi-    . Knowledge of . Vendor Faci-          B
System Software Training   months        lyst                     neering, Mathematics, or           Basic Pro-      lities Prior
(2) Programmers-JUGEL   Computer Science                   grammers        to Shipment
(1) System Analyst    . (2) or more years Experience       Techniques
(2) Programmers -      . Lead System Analyst:  Same      . For System
Each Large Republic      as for 2.6                         Analysts
(1) System Analyst                                         Knowledge of
(1) Programmer - Each                                      Power System
Smaller Republic plus
Each Province
Totals:
(1) Lead System
Analyst
(9) System Analysts
(13) Programmers
2.11 Operations Planning - (2)-(3)        (l)-(2) Lead System   . System Analysts:                 Same as above  . Batch Appli-         B
Batch Application Program  years         Analyst                 . Degree in Electrical Engi-                         cations pro-
Training                                  (1) System Analyst -    neering                                             gram, Vendor
JUGEL                  . (4) or more years Power                            Facilities
(1) Lead System          System Experience                                . Installation
Analyst - Each Large  . Lead System Analyst:                                Site
Republic               . Same aa above plus Supervi-
(1) System Analyst -    sory Capability
Each Large Republic   . Programmers:
(1? System Analyst -^ Sanme as above
Each Smaller Republic
and Each Province
plus same
Programmers as 2.10
above
Totals:
(4)-(5) Lead System
Analysts
(9) System Analysts
(13) Programmers
3. System              3.1 Microwave Communi-      (7) weeks    (2) Communication       . (2) Years Technical Schooling  . Knowledge of . Vendor Faci-          B
Maintenance            cations Maintenance                       Technicians-JUGEL      . (4) or more Years of Electric    Basic Commu-   lities Prior
Training                                  (4) Communication        Equipment Experience               nication        to Shipment
Technicians - Each                                        . Knowledge of
Large Republic                                              Principles
rN
(789P,p.14)
rt



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING            COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION       NUMBER OF PERSONNEL       PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS         PREREQUISITES      LOCATION       CATEGORY
(2) Communication                                            of FDM/FM or
Technician - Each                                            PCM/FM Micro-
Smaller Republic                                             wave Radio &
Plus Each Province                                           Multiplex
Totals:                                                      Familiarity
(26) Communications                                          with Test
Technicians                                                  Equipment
Normally used
on Microwave
Multiplex
Equipment
3.2 Data Communications    (6) weeks    (1) Hardware Techni-  . (2) Years Technical Schooling  . Knowledge of . Vendor Faci-                B
Network - Maintenance                      cians - JUGEL           , (4) or more Years of Electric    Basic Digi-    lities Prior
Training                                   (3) Hardware Techni-    Equipment Experience                 tal Circuit    to Shipment
cians - Each Large                                           and Logic
Republic                                                     Design
(2) Hardware Techni-                                       . Familiarity
cians - Each Smaller                                         with Test
Republic plus Each                                           Equipment                                 I
Province                                                     Normally used                             >
Totals:                                                      on Digital                                m
(19) Hardware Tech-                                          Equipment
nicians
3.3 Real Time Systems -    (5)-(6)         (3) Hardware Tech-    Same as above                        Same as above  . Vendor Faci-         B
Formal Technician Training  months         nicians - JUGEL                                                               lities
(3/2) Hardware Tech-                                                        . Installation
nicians-Each Republic                                                         Site
(2) Hardware Techni-
cians-Each Province
Totals:
(21) Technicians
3.4 Real Time Systems -    (6)-(9)         Same as above          Same as above                       Same as above  . Vendor Faci-         B
On-the-job Technician       months                                                                                       lities
Training                                                                                                               . jjallation
3.5 Remote Terminal Unit   (4)-(6)         Same number as for    Same as for Course 3.2               Same as for    . Vendor Faci-         B
Technician                   weeks         Course 3.2 plus                                            Course 3.2         lities Prior
additional Hardware                                                           to Shipment
Technicians
(1) For Each Republic
and Province
Total:                                                                                               z >
Same as for Course                                                                                  cm
mat
2.3 plus (8) additio-                                                                                   M
nal Hardware Technicians                                                                            o
-789P p.15)
(789P,p.15)



YUGOSLAVL4
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING           COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION      NUMBER OF PERSONNEL      PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS        PREREQUISITES      LOCATION      CATEGORY
3.6 Operations Planning    (5)-(6)       (2) Hardware Tech-    . (2) Years Technical Schooling  . Knowledge of   Vendor Faci-           B
System Technician Training months        nicians - JUGEL         . (4) or more Years of Electric    Basic Digi-    lities Prior
(2) Hardware Techni-    Equipment Experience               tal Circuit    to Shipment
cians - Each Large                                         and Logic
Republic                                                   Design
(1) Hardware Techni-                                     . Familiarity
cian - Each Smaller                                        with Test
Republic and Province                                       Equipment
Totals:                                                    Normally used
(13) Technicians                                           on Digital
Equipment
4.  System Operation  4.1 System Operation         (2) weeks    (1) Director of Dis-  . Electrical Engineering Degree  . Knowledge of . Consultant             A/B
Management            Management Classroom                       patch Center           . Power System Operation            Power System   or Vendor
Training (Part I)                          - JUGEL                 Experience                        Operations      Facilities
- Each Republic      . (10) or more Years of overall
- Each Province        Experience
(3) Managers of Dis-
patching Scheduling
and Operations Plan-
ning Department
- JUGEL
- Each Republic
(2) Managers
- Each Province
Totals:
-9 ipatch Center
Directors
(25) Department
Managers
4.1 Power Pool/Utility      (4)-(5)       Same as above          Same as above                     Same as above    Utility             A/B
Dispatch Operations         weeks                                                                                    Facilities
Training (Part II)
4.2 Real Time System Ope-  (10)-(12)    (5) Lead Dispatcher   . For Lead Dispatchers:                Knowledge of . Lead Dispat-         B/C
rator (Dispatcher)          weeks         - JUGEL                 Minimum (2) years of Technical   Power System   chers at
Training                                  - Each Republic         Training and (6) or more Years   Operations        Vendor Faci-
(10) Dispatchers -      Power System Operations Expe-                      lities plus
JUGEL, Each Republic,   rience plus Supervisory                             Installation
Each Province            Capability                                         Site
Totals:                  for Dispatchers:                                 . Dispatchers
(35) Lead Dispatchers   Minimum High School Training                       at Installa-
(90) dispatchers         and (2) or more Years Opera-                       tion Site
tion Experience                                                             >
a A-
(789P,p.16)                                                                                                                                                         h
It



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Training Component Program
TYPE OF TRAINING           COURSE/ACTIVITY        DURATION      NUMBER OF PERSONNEL       PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS       PREREQUISITES      LOCATION      CATEGORY
4.3 Periodic Real Time      Quarterly    All Dispatchers         Same as above                      Same as above    At Installa-        C
System Operator (Dispat-                                                                                              tion Site
cher) Training                                                                                                        using Train-
ing Console/
Simulator
4.4 Power Scheduling and   (5)-(6)        (2) Engineers-JUGEL   . Electric Engineering Degree    Same as above    Consultant             B
Interchange Accounting      weeks         (2) Engineers-Each       (3) or more Years Power Sys-                      Facilities
Training                                  Republic                 tem Operations Experience                        . Selected
(1) Engineer-Each                                                          Power Pools
Province
Totals.
(16) Engineers
5.  System Modifi-    5.1 Extended Real Time       (2)-(3)      Same Lead System        Same as for 2,7                   Same as for    . Vendor Loca-         B/C
cation/Expansion      Application Program          years        Analysts as for 2.7                                       2.7                tion Plus
after Initial Ope-    Training                                  and 2.8 plus:                                                               Installation
ration (Extended                                                 (2) System Analysts                                                         Site
Real Time Functions)                                            and
(2) Programmers -
JUGEL and Each Large
Republic
(1) System Analyst
(1) Programmer - Each
Smaller Republic and
Each Province
Totals.
(5)-(6) Lead System
Analysts
(14) System Analysts
(14) Programmers
N.B. For all RTCS and OPS software training, instruction will be provided on Database Management System software and
Message Control System software.
August 1982
(789P,p.17)                                                                                                                                                     O Q x
o
-1Ih H3
It



- 71 -                        ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 13
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Stage I--Hardware Configurations for the EMS
Internal   Computer   Memory    Bulk
Word Size    Type       (Each)   Storage    Printers    Tapes
k = (System Size and
(Complexity Factor
OPS                                         (GP OR
MINI)
k
.80  Sarajevo                 > 32    GP           1.5 MB    400 MB   (1)  600 LPM    3
.75  Zagreb                      32    GP          1.5 MB    400 MB   (1)  600 LPM    3
.b5  Skopje                   7 16    MINI         192 KB       5 MB   (1)  300 LPM    3
.60  Titograd                 > 16    MINI         192 KB       5 MB   (1)  300 LPM    2
.90  Beograd                  > 32    GP           1.5 NB    600 MB   (1)  600 LPM    3
.55  Pristina                 > 16    MINI         192 KB       5 MB   (1)  300 LPM    2
.5i  Novi Sad                 >16    MINI          128 KB       5 MB   (1)  300 LPM    2
.70  Ljubljana                > 32    MINI         512 KB      80 MB   (1)  300 LPM    2
1.U0 Federal Dispatch
Center                   > 32    GP           3.0 MB   1200 MB   (2) 1200 LPM    3
RTCS                                      (PROCESS
COMPUTER)
k
.80  Sarajevo                 > 32    (2) MED   1.0 MB    200 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.75  Zagreb                   7 32    (2) MED   1.0 MB    200 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.b5  Skopje                   > 32    (2) MED   1.0 MB    160 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.bO  Titograd                 232    (2) MED   768 KB          80 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.90  Beograd                  2 32    (2) MED   1.5 tMB    300 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.55  Pristina                 > 32    (2) MED   768 KB         80 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.55  Novi Sad                 > 32    (2) MED   768 KB         80 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
.70  Ljubljana                7 32    (2) MED   1.0 tMB    160 MB   (1)  600 LPM    2
1.00 Federal Dispatch
Center                   2 32    (2) MED   2.0 MB    600 MB   (1)  600 LPM    4
August 1982                             GP      =  General Purpose Computer
MINI   =  Minicomputer
MED    =  Medium Scale Process Computer
(769P,p.16)



THE OVERALL PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION FOR THIRD TRANSMISSION PROJECT (EMS)
PRESIDENT
VICE-PRESIDENT
COORDINATING
COMMITTEE FOR
YUGOSLAV EMS
PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
TEAM FORYUGOSLAV
EMS
PROJECT MANAGER         PROJECT MANAGER          PROJECT MANAGER         PROJECT MANAGER          PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT MANAGEMENT      PROJECT MANAGEMENT       PROJECT MANAGEMENT       PROJECT MANAGEMENT      PROJECT MANAGEMENT         '-4
TEAM FOR BiH EMS       TEAM FOR CROATIA        TEAM FOR MACEDONIA      TEAM FOR MONTENEGRO         TEAM FOR SERBIA
(DC SARAJEVO)          EMS (DC ZAGREB)          EMS (DC SKOPJE)         EMS (DC TITOGRAD)        EMS (DC BEOGRAD)
PROJECT MANAGER         PROJECT MANAGER          PROJECT MANAGER          PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT MANAGEMENT      PROJECT MANAGEMENT       PROJECT MANAGEMET        PROJECT MANAGEMENT
TEAM FOR KOSOVO        TEAM FOR VOJVODINA       TEAM FOR JUGEL EMS        TEAM FOR SLOVENIA
EMS (DC PRISTINA)       EMS (DC NOVI SAD)            (DC ZJE)            EMS (DC LJUBLJANA)
World Bank-24183



YUGOSLAV EMS PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM STRUCTURE
COORDINATING COMMITTEE
FOR YUGOSLAV EMS
.
PROJECT MANAGER
INTERPRETER           QUALITY CONTROL           SECRETARY/
|  2 TCHNICAND  l   AND STANDARDS              TYPIST
LOJ
]   1  1  1 X r 1 _ 1I --,I
REAL TIME SYSTEM         OPERATIONS              APPLICATION         DT  CUSTO  N             EEOMNCTO
COORDINATOR     PLANNING SYSTEM            SOFTWARE           TRANSMISSION SYSTEM     TELECOMMNCTO
COORDINATOR            COORDINATORCDEVELOPMENT                      COORDINATOR DATA          YCOSDINATE O
COORDINATOR  COORDINATOR  BASE ADMINISTRATORCOORDINATOR
TRAINING PROGRAMS          CONSTRUCTION
AND STUDIES ADMINIS-      MONITORING AND
TRATOR AND RECRUIT-          REPORTING
MENT COORDINATOR          ADMINISTRATOR                                              IW



YUGOSLAVIA
TRIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE                                        Estimate on January 25, 1Q83
PROCUREMENT/                                                           TARGET DATES
CONTRACT           Tender      Tender         Specific Proc. Notice        Prequali-   Tender        Bid          Bid            Contract    Contract
PACKAGES           Document    Document   to Bank and       Publication   fication    Release       Opening      Evaluation    Signing       Completed
Completed   to the      periodicals                     notice                                Completed
Bank
1. OPS - Phase I    Apr.15,83   May 15,83                                    Feb.15,83   May 31,83   Aug.31,83   Nov.30,83         Jan.31,84   Apr.30, 85
2. OPS - Phase II  Apr.30,83   May 31,83                                     Feb.15,83   Jun.15,83   Sep.15,83   Dec.15,83         Feb.28,84   Nov.30, R5
3. RTS - Phase I    Jun.30,83   Jul.31,83                                    Mar.31,83   Aug.31,83   Dec.30,83   May.31,84         Sep.31,84   Jun.30, 87
4. RIS - Phase II   Jul.31,83   Aug.31,83                                    Apr.30,83   Sep.30,83   Jan.31,84   Jun.30,84         Oct.31,84   Oct.31, 87
5. DCN               May 31,83   Jun.30,83                                   Mar.31,83   Jul.31,83   Nov.30,83   Apr.30,84         Jul.31,84   Apr.30, 87
b. Microwave Sys.                                                                         Jan.31,83   May 05,83   Aug.31,83        Oct.31,83   Dec.31, 86
7. DC's Telecom-    Aug.31,83   Sep.30,83  Sep.30,83         Oct.31,83                    Nov.30,83   Jan.31,84   Feb.15,84        Mar.31,84   Mar.31, 85
municat. Equip.
8. RDU's             May 31,83   Jun.30,83                                   Feb.28,83   Jul.31,83   Oct.31,83   Feb.18,84         Jun.30,R4   Jun.30, 87
9. Local Interface  May 31,83   Jun.30,83  Ju1.31,83                                      Oct.15,83   Dec.15,83   Feb.28,84        Apr.30,84   Dec.31, 86
l0. Power Supply/   Jun.30,83   Jul.30,83  Aug.31,83         Sep.30,83                    Oct.31,83   Dec.15,83   Jan.31,84        Feb.28,84   Feb.28, 85
UPS
11. Diesel Engines  Jun.31,83   Jul.31,83  Aug.31,83         Sep.30,83                    Nov.30,83   Jan.15,84   Feb.28,84        Apr.15,84   Feb.15, 85
12. Building         Sep.30,83   Oct.31,83  Oct.30,83        Nov.30,83                    Dec.31,83   Feb.28,84   Apr.15,84        May 31,84   Feb.28, 85
Facilities
13. JUGEL DC         May 01,83   May 31,83  May 01,83        May 31,83                    Jun.30,83   Sep.30,83   Nov.1,83         Jan.01,84   Dec.31, 84
April 1983
(789P,p.6)



-75 -                                                                ANNEX 3.5
THE WHOLE EMS (9 DC-al                                            CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
YEARS AND MCNTHS
(SUBSYSTEM)                     1981             1982              1983              1984              1995             198S              1987
3       6 9                                                            3 _ i   3 6   9  3  E  3   6   9  3   6   9  3   S   9
OPERATIONS                                                       l
SYSTEM                d                                                    _          S  f                              - i     -   -
LEGEND~~                     ~           ~ a9  aeilt Td  rprto  7  FaBilvSvaPgd
b~~~~~~~                                                                 ~~~ -                 -tlmev  -eig -n -En  -la
9~~~~ -10  -lato an -e lcn                         *7  -vte          -   -                      -   - -
hT5          -                                                                                 __mtso oq
_    mhRTS aalDeg                                                  AS/e Waxu
I _       -wRe -reDeravn aw  a  d- ASI            -
DATA                     -    -       -       -                              -     -               -     -      
COMMUNICATION
NETWORKe-- -
EQUIPMENT
IN POWERd
FACI LITI ES                      -        -       -               -                 
(RTU~~                                                                                            ~~~~~ all          III        I
TELECOMMUNICATION                -           -        -                                  
SYSTEM
ITCSI                                                                                        
AUXILIARY                                                                                              _              ~     i{
EaUIPMENT                                                                                           J - - - -- - ~ -
(B LO )                                                  --                                                        --------       - -
LEGEND        .,9,,+S,y~9,I,,                                               .sS~    wlP9a
H T--          45



CPM DIAGRAM OF MAIN ACTIVITIES FOR YUGOSLAV ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
smUmDn~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                          m-e 4 0
/ TChS   \ Ci Lca) Path s  B 7       M o n e h s "   tt e \   T h aI   O p ersni 6 7  -
/ \ 0 rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ml.d                                                                            Miato 
M M     nt                     4 MonthMto2h: 61oM                                                                                                        Montho
/    DCN                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
| \ ren~~~~~~~.,d.r D.i,-::t,.                                                                                                    Deall d Dndin &  In1tal cu neinFJitn Demn,    
\ \ ~~~~PHASE I                                                                                                   /                                                                                             -+ T,i,t Dpe,,M.6% 
D..,                                                                                                           \Hil _ _  _ a                                                                                                     Ptth
Le,is          t                   De                                                     55
RTS                     \           -hi  ,t,\
| PHASE II              T-der D-
\                   \% r~~~~~~~ ~~~- \,, .. v-                                                                                                                           .,
\  =                                                                                                                                                                       Gitical PaTh i2 Months~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ct..  .h!7 M.h
\                               3 ~~~~~~~~~Months                     tin                                       a2  oh.2Mth 5eThrI '                                                                                                ..
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ila' Liste DeeopencsunmlalPth72Mnen
te  Tendon honwmnnl    22                                             Months        ~         Caiti-ae Pth: *2 Mon-hi
0.S             I                   t                                                                                                                               \ 5
PHASEII                                           0t'P
Wcald aank-24t18



- 77 -
ANNEX 3.7
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
(in US$ Million)
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Semester
Bank Fiscal                                               For Interest
Year and Semester             Front-end      For Goods          during
Fee         & Services    Construction    Total
1984
December 31, 1983
June 30, 1984                           0.3             3.4            -              3.7
1985
December 31, 1984                       0.3             8.0            0.2            8.5
June 30, 1985                           0.3            16.3            0.7           17.3
1986
December 31, 1985                       0.3            27.4            1.6           29.3
June 30, 1986                           0.3           39.4             3.2          42.9
1987
December 31, 1986                       0.3            51.4            5.6           57.3
June 30, 1987                           0.3           62.5             8.7           71.5
1988
December 31, 1987                       0.3            70.8           12.4           83.5
June 30, 1988                           0.3           78.2            16.4           94.9
1989
December 31, 1988                       0.3           84.6            20.8          105.7
June 30, 1989                           0.3           89.2            25.5         115.0
1990
December 31, 1989                       0.3           92.0            27.7          120.0
April 1983
(789P,p.2)



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.8
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan per Borrower
(in US$ Million)
Share of
Bank
a/                                                  Loan
Borrower                1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    Total    (%)
Bosnia-Herzegovina         1.53   3.74   5.04    4.72   4.00   2.57   21.60   18.00
Croatia                    1.34   3.28   4.41    4.12   3.50   2.25   18.90   15.75
Macedonia                  0.85   2.08   2.80    2.62   2.22   1.43   12.00   10.0
Montenegro                 0.75   1.82   2.45    2.29   1.94   1.25   10.50    8.75
Serbia                     1.68   4.11   5.53    5.17   4.38   2.83   23.70   19.75
Kosovo                     0.60   1.48   1.99    1.87   1.58   1.02    8.54    7.12
Vojvodina                  0.60   1.48   2.00    1.87   1.58   1.03    8.56    7.13
Slovenia                   1.15   2.81   3.78    3.54   3.00   1.92   16.20   13.50
Total                  8.50  20.80  28.00   26.20  22.20  14.30  120.00  100.00
/a Calendar year
April 1983
(789P,p.3)



- 79 -
ANNEX 3.9
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Sources of Fund
(in US$ Million)
IBRD     Front-end  IBRD Loan       Total
EIB    Other      Loan for   Fee on   for Inter-    Finan-
Calendar Year             Loan   Sources   Goods &    Bank        est during    cing
(Local)   Services   Loan       Construction  Provided
Actual
1980                        -        13.7         -          -          -            13.7
1981                        -         9.4               -          -                  9.4
1982 (preliminary)          -          1.0        -          -          -             1.0
Forecast
1983                        -         1.0         -          -          -             1.0
1984                        5.8      10.3         8.0        0.3        0.2          24.6
1985                       13.4      23.5        19.4        -          1.4          57.7
1986                       16.6      29.0        24.0        -          4.0          73.6
1987                       13.4      23.5        19.4        -          6.8          63.1
1988                        9.6      16.8        13.8        -          8.4          48.6
1989                        5.2       8.8         7.4        -          6.9          28.3
64.0     137.0        92.0        0.3       27.7         321.0
April 1983
(789P,p.4)



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimated Project Disbursement Schedule per Borrower
(in US$ Million)
(Preli-                                                                          Share of
Actual      minary)                               Forecast                                  Project
Borrower              1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989            Total  Cost (%)   1984-89
Bosnia-Herzegovina       5.20    0.40    0.20    0.20    4.10    9.57   11.85    9.57    6.84    3.64    51.57              17.6       45.57
Croatia                  t.10    5.60    0.10    0.10    2.96    6.92    8.56    6.92    4.94    2.63    44.83              15.3       32.93
Macedonia                0.10    0.70    0.10    0.10    2.65    6.19    7.66    6.19    4.42    2.36    30.47              10.4       29.47
Montenegro               -       0.50    0.10    0.10    2.31    5.39    6.67    5,39    3.85    2.06    26.37               9.0       25.67
Serbia                   0.10    0.90    0.10    0.10    5.06   11.81   14.62   11.81    8.43    4.50    57.43              19.6       56.23             1
Kosovo                   -       0.40    0.20    0.20    1.83    4.26    5.28    4.26    3.05    1.62    21.10               7.2       20.30
Vojvodina                2.20    0.20    0.10    0.10    1.64    3.82    4.73    3.82    2.73    1.46    20.80               7.1       18.20
Slovenia                 -       0.70    0.10    0.10    3.56    8.30   10.28    8.30    5.93    3.16    40.43              13.8       3q.53
Total              13.70    9.40    1.00    1.00   24.11   56.26   69.65   56.26   40.19   21.43   293.00    100.0               267.90
1/ Excluding front-end fee on Bank Loan and interest during construction Bank-financed.
August 1982
(789P,p.5)



YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Comparison of Proposed Disbursement Profile with
Actual Disbursement for Power Transmission I and 11 Projects
100-10
90-                                                                                                                                                               90
80-                                                                                                                                                               80
70.    -Power Projects EMENA                                                                                                                                        t70
LU w / Proposed P rofile for
Power Transm. III
60 -                                                                                                                                                               60
vi                                      Power Transm. I
aO                                       Loan 836-Yu
>   50-                                                                                                      Power Transm. II                                        -50
Loan 1469-Yu
-J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0  40-                                                                                                                                                                40
30-                                                                                                                                                               30
20-                                                                                                                                                             -2
10 -                                                                                                                                                             21
D * _g gr- -r - -                                                   <
2                  4                   6                  8                  10                  12                 14
Elapsed Semesters
(From Loan Approval)                                                     World Bank-24392



-.82 -
ANNEX 4.1
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Return on Investment
(US$ Million)
COSTS                                     BENEFITS
Replacement       Fuel        Saving in
Year       Capital Cost       0 & M      of Equipt.       Saving    Reserve Capacity
1981            3.7             1.5          0               0               0
1982           19.8             2.9          0               0               0
1983           42.3             5.8          0               0               0
1984           34.2             8.2          0               0               0
1985           32.9            10.4          0               4.7             0
1986           28.1            12.4          0              10.7             0
1987           33.7            14.7          0              15.8             0
1988           25.0            16.5          0              20.6             0
1989           25.0            18.2          0              26.3             0
1990           14.9            19.3          0              29.7             0
1991            0              19.3'         0              33.7             0
1992            0              19.3          0              36.9          450
1993            0              19.3          0              40.8            30
1994            0              19.3         60              48.3           30
1995            0              19.3          0              49.3           30
1996            0              19.3          0              50.3           30
1997            0              19.3          0              51.3           30
1998            0              19.3          0              52.3           30
1999            0              19.3          0              53.3           30
2000            0              19.3         30              54.4            30
2001            0              19.3          0              55.5            30
2002            0              19.3          0              56.6            30
2003            0              19.3          0              57.7           30
2004            0              19.3          0              58.9            30
2005            0              19.3          0              60.1            30
2006            0              19.3          0              61.3            30
August 1982
(0789P, p. 19)



- 83 -
ANNEX 4.2
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Assumption for the Calculation of Rate of Return
1.  Economic life of the Project:   25 years
2.  Opportunity cost of Capital:    12%
3. Base year - mid-1982
4. Conversion factors for Shadow pricing:
Local Cost as a Percentage
Component               of Total Base Cost             Conversion Factor
Equipment                           18                         0.82
Civil works                         90                         0.80
Installation                       80                          0.93
Services                            90                         0.93
Others                              33                         0.93
Overhead                            90                         0.93
5.  Maintenance:   6% of cummulative Capital cost
6. Fuel Cost; Price in mid-1981
Din/kWh
Lignite;                            .673
Brown Coal;                         .710
Hard Coal;                          .823
Fuel Oil;                          2.456
Escalation of fuel oil prices at 2% per year in constant terms.
September 1982
(789P,p.21)



- 84 -                            AANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Financial Statements of the Borrowers and Projections
Page
Financial Statements; 1979-82
Bosnia & Herzegovina                                                2-4
Croatia                                                             5-7
Macedonia                                                           8-10
Montenegro                                                         11-13
Sertia                                                             14-16
Kosovo                                                             17-19
Vojvodina                                                          20-22
Slovenia                                                           23-25
Financial Projectionst  1983-84                                        26-27
Notes to Financial Statements and Projections                          28-29
April 1983
(789P)



- 85 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION P'ROJECT
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BIH
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--   ACTIJAL   --         EST.
1979    1980    1981         1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                  8,852   8,938   9,170        9,430
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS           0.77    1.05    1.47         2.06
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                        4,470   6,490   9,603       15,033
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                      758      935   1,657       2,012
OTHER ENTERPRISES                   1,606   1,918   2,260        2,379
SUBTOTAL                     6,834   9,343  13,520       19,424
OTHER REVENUES                       1,048   1,460   1,681        1,845
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES             7,882  10,803  15,201       21,269
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASES OF ELECTRICITY               105       88     356       3,336
FUEL                                 2,294   3,248   5,153        6,540
SALARIES & WAGES                     1,297   1,630   2,219        2,640
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                  975   1,2.50   1,568       1,520
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS             378      420     414         600
DEPRECIATION                         1,742   2,351   2,963        5,400
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES               6,791   8,987  12,673       20,036
OPERATING INCOME                        1,091   1,816   2,528       1,233
INTEREST ON LOANS                        304      663      939      2,031
NET INCOME (LOSS)                         787   1,L53   1,589         (798)
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                         546      660     830        (466)
RESERVE FUND                           79      107     119        (332)
COLLECTIVE CSMPTN. + OTHER FUNDS    162        386     640           -
TOTAL                                 787   1,153   1,589         (798)
April 1983
(789P,p.24)



- 86 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BIH
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL      --       EST.
1979    1980      1981    1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                  51,681  71,686  103,635   143,108
LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION           23,055  30,163   44,265    56,185
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE            28,626  41,523   59,370    86,923
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                 14,652  15,749   26,435    26,597
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                43,278  57,272   85,805   113,520
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBL.             -        -        -          -
OTHER INVESTMENTS                         360     527    1,082       1,244
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                   1,158   1,658    2,472       2,843
OTHER                                   2,367   6,150    3,693       3,693
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS                3,885   8,335    7,247       7,780
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                            1,111   1,650    2,529       2,908
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                   960   1,150    1,300       1,620
OTHER                                   1,265   1,541    2,288       3,009
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    3,336   4,341    6,117       7,537
TOTAL ASSETS                             50,499  69,948   99,169   128,837
LIABILITIES
BUSINESS FUND                            26,913  35,590   50,545    63,777
RESERVE FUND                                299      381      462        130
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS   1,075   1,423    1,978          1,978
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                 28,287  37,394   52,985    65,885
DOMESTIC PARTNERS' INVESTMENT FDS.          530      800    1,016      1,016
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                 28,817  38,194   54,001    66,901
iONG TERM DEBT                           17,770  26,863   37,301    51,202
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES                 -      188      800          -
CURRENT LIABILITIES                       3,912   4,703    7,067    10,734
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        50,499  69,948   99,169   128,837
DEST/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO                38/62   41/59    41/59       43/57
April 1983
(789P,p.25)



- 87 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 4 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BIH
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS: 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --        EST.
1979    1980    1981      1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                1,091   1,816   2,528    1,233
DEPRECIATION                           1,742   2,351   2,963    5,400
GROSS CASH GENERATION                  2,833   4,167   5,491    6,633
LESS:DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                           (1,053) (1,301) (2,518)  (3,534)
INTEREST                                (304)   (663)   (939)  (2,031)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                    (1,357) (1,964) (3,457)  (5,565)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)             1,476   2,203   29034    1,068
CONSUMER CONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)             407      475      435      372
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.   1,883   2,678   2,469    1,440
SUBSIDIES                                     -       -        -      466
OTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                      189      71        -        -
DO1ESTIC P'NERS INVESTMENT FDS.             150     270      216         -
BORROWINGS
INVESTMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS            835   1,221   1,907    3,332
REIMBURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.         1,027   1,058   1,081    3,283
orHER                                  3,814   5,308  13,177    6,565
TOTAL BORROWINGS                       5,676   8,087  16,165   13,180
CLANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS                   (27) (2,005)    256    5,049
TOTAL                                7,871   9,101  19,106   20,135
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                 7,871   9,101  19,106   20,135
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBLICS             -       -        -        -
TOTAL                              7,871   9,101  19,106   20,135
RATIOS (INCLUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONT8NS.)
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                       23.9%   29.4%   12.9%       7.1%
TO)TAL INVESTMENT                      23.9%   29.4%   12.9%       7.1%
TOTAL INVESTNENT LESS StHARE
OF OTHIER REPUBLICS                  26.8%G  34.0%   14.4%       8.6%
DEBT SERVICE COVEAAGE                       2.4     2.4      1.7      1.3
RATE OF RETURN                            10.5%o    f.5%    5.9%     2.2%
April 1983
(789P,p.26)



- 88 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 5 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ZAJEDNICA ELEKTROPRIVREDNIH ORGANIZACIJA HRVATSKE (ZEOH)
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --         EST.
1979    1980    1981       1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWR                    10,538  10,972  10,923    11,237
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS             0.88    1.22    1.74         2.48
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                          8,008  11,686  16,818    24,803
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                      1,003   1,432   2,067        3,027
OTHER ENTERPRISES                        307     239      146         12
SUBTOTAL                       9,318  13,357  19,031    27,842
OTHER REVENUES                         2,274   3,923   3,851        4,166
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES              11,592  17,280  22,882    32,008
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASES OF ELECTRICITY               1,919   2,636   4,201        5,736
FUEL                                    1,852   2,535   5,935       6,557
SALARIES & WAGES                       2,172   2,797   3,412        4,352
OTYHER OPERATING COSTS                 1,238   3,148   2,723        2,817
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS             1,453   1,241   1,816        2,016
DEPRECIATION                           2,540   3,360   3,629        5,959
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                11,174  15,717  21,716    27,437
OPERATING INCOME                            418   1,563   1,166       4,571
INTtkEST ON LOANS                           886      986     872      4,325
NET INCOME (LOSS)                          (468)    577      294         246
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                          (649)    127        81        112
RESERVE FUND                             60      175       59         44
COLLECTIVE CSMPTN. + OTHER FUNDS        121      275      154         90
TOTAL                                  (468)    577       294        246
April 1983
(789P,p.27)



- 89 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 6 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PE'OJECT
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ZAJEDNICA ELEKTROPRIVREDNIH ORGANIZACIJA HRVATSKE (ZEOH)
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION ANI) DISTRIBUTION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL     --           EST.
1979    1980      1981         1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                 70,861  90,940  125,679       154,853
LESS: ACCUMU1JATED DEPRECIATION         29,183  38,414   55,419        70,585
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE           41,678  52,526   70,260        84,268
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                10,159  12,416   17,752        18,166
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                51,837  64,942   88,012       102,434
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBL.        6,436   9,301   12,013        14,551
OTHER INVESTMENTS                        553      701      841        1,181
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                  3,492   3,000    3,107         3,262
OTHER                                  3,497   2,941    4,040         5,819
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS              13,978  15,943   20,001        24,813
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                           2,393   3,114    3,369         4,881
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                  583      862    1,049        1,652
OTHER                                  2,836   2,925    4,952         4,524
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   5,812   6,901    9,370        11,057
TOTAL ASSETS                            71,627  87,786  117,383       138,304
LIABILITIES
___________
BUSINESS FUND                           38,332  49,083   68,008        80,067
RESERVE FUND                               204      359       378         422
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS   2,242   2,733    3,058           3,670
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                40,778  52,175   71,444        84,159
DOMESTIC PARTNERS' INVESTMENT FDS.            -       -         -            -
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                 40,778  52,175   71,444        84,159
LONG TERM DEBT                          19,543  24,508   31,149        36,633
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES            6,353   5,650    6,213         7,746
CORRENT LIABILITIES                      4,953   5,453,    8,577        9,766
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       71,627  87,786  117,383       138,304
DEI3T/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO              32/68   32/68    30/70         30/70
April 1983
(789P,p,28)



- 90 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 7 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ZAJEDNICA ELEKTROPRIVREDNIH ORGANIZACIJA HRVATSKE (ZEOH)
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS: 1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --             EST.
1979    1980    1981           1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INGOME (LOSS)                 418   1,563   1,166           4,571
DEPRECIKTION                          2,540   3,360   3,629           5,959
GROSS CASH GENERATION                 2,958   4,923   4,795          10,530
LESS:DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                            (999) (1,599) (1,566)        (2,366)
INTEREST                               (886)   (986)   (872)         (4,325)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   (1,885) (2,585) (2,438)         (6,691)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)            1,073   2,338   2,357          3,839
CONSUMER CONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)          2,848   3,945   4,189           5,075
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.   3,921   6,283   6,546            8,914
SUBSIDIES                                    -       -       -              -
OrTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                      -       -       -              -
DOMESTIC P'NERS INVESTMENT FDS.              -       -       -              -
BORRROWINGS
INVESTMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS             -        -       -              -
REIMBURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.        2,714   2,672   3,676           3,904
OTHER                                 2,631   3,719   3,488           1,220
TOTAL BORROWINGS                      5,345   6,391   7,164           5,124
CHANGES IN NET CUKRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS              (1,283)   (541)      25           (764)
TOTaL                               7,983  12,133  13,735          13,274
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE               6,402   9,268  11,023          10,736
POWER PROJECTS IN OHliER REPUBLICS       1,581   2,865   2,712          2,538
TOTAL                             7,933  12,133  13,735          13,274
RATIOS (INCLUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONrBNS.)
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                      L1.2    6 7. 8    59.47         83.0%
TOTAL INVESTMENT                      49.1%   51.8%   47.7%           67.2%
TOTAL INVESTMENT LESS SHARL
OF OTHER REPUBLICS                  49.1%   51.8%   47.7%           67.2%
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                      3.1     3.4     3.7            2.3
RAfE OF RETURN                           15.7%   11.7%    8.7%          12.5%
April 1983
(789P,p.29)



- 91 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 8 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO NA MAKEDONIJA
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --         EST.
1979    1980   1981       1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                   3,072   3,279  3,402    3,940
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS           0.58    0.86   1.14       1.28
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                         1,274   2,C68  2,646    3,464
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                       495     756  1,036    1,592
OTHER ENTERPRISES                        4        7    188         -
SUBTOTAL                     1,773   2,831  3,870    5,056
OrHER REVENUES                           31       36     59       110
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES              1,804   2,867  3,929    5,166
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASES OF ELECTRICITY                707   1,202  1,733    1,763
FUEL                                    275      309    280    1,529
SALARIES & WAGES                        177     289    394        577
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                   100      1.34    327      675
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS               74      7.03    199      313
DEPRECIATION                            334     477    736    1,395
TOTAL OPERArING EXPENSES                1,667   2,514  3,669    6,252
OPERArING INCOME                          137      353    260   (1,086)
INTEREST ON LOANS                         146      L98    442       472
NET INCOME (LOSS)                          (9)    L55   (182)  (1,558)
APPOkOPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                          (20)    125   (229)  (1,558)
RESERVE FUND                             -       12      -         -
COLLECTIVE CSMPrN. + (YrHER FUNDS       11       18     47         -
TOTAL                                   (9)    155   (182)  (1,558)
April 1983
(7892,p.39)



- 92 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 9 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO NA MAKEDONIJA
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --         EST.
1979    1980    1981       1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                12,852  17,920  24,524    36,134
LESS: ACCUHULATED DEPRECIATION          3,184   4,290   6,526      8,900
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE           9,668  13,630  17,998    27,234
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                4,212   6,815   9,361      5,821
TOTAL NE1 FIXED ASSETS               13,880  20,445  27,359    33,055
OTiYER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OrHER REPUBL.           -        -       -         -
OTHER INVESTMENTS                       276      323     393       452
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                   818   1,042   1,169      1,478
OTHER                                   709   1,265   2,677      2,860
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS              1,803   2,630   4,239      4,790
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                            350      532     587       675
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                 228      372     441       580
OTHER                                   436   1,142      435       500
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                  1,014   2,046   1,463      1,755
TOTAL ASSETS                           16,b97  25,121  33,061    39,600
LIABILITIES
BUSINESS FUND                           7,961  10,532  14,945    17,872
RESERVE FUND                               77       80     103        103
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS      183      223     283       283
TOTAL ENTERPRISE lUNDS                8,221  10,835  15,331    18,258
DOMESTlC PARTNERS' INVESTML.T FLS.          -        -       -         -
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                 8,221  10,835  15,331    18,258
LONG TERM DEBT                          7,165  12,969  15,851    19,181
OTHlER NON-CURRENT LIABILITlIES           298      207     135        155
CURRENT LIABILLTIES                     1,013   1,110   1,744      2,006
TOTAL LIABILiTIES                      16,697  25,121  33,061    39,600
DEBif/t'ERMANENT FUilDS RATIO           47/53   55/45   51/49      51/49
April 1983
(789P,p.40)



- 93 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 10 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO NA MAKEDCNIJA
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS:  1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --          EST.
1979    1930   1981         1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                     137     353    260    (1,086)
DEPRECIATION                               334      477    736       1,395
GROSS CASH GENERATION                      471      830    996         309
LESS:DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                               (142)   (371)  (518)        (750)
INTEREST                                  (146)   (148)  (442)        (472)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                        (288)   (559)  (960)   (1,222)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)                 183     261      36       (913)
CONSUMER CONfTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)               137      145    165        227
.SET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.        320      436    201         (686)
SUBSIDIES                                       -       70    100      1,558
OTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                          -        -      -           -
aOMESrIC P'NERS INVESTrMENT FDS.                -        -       -          -
BORROWINGS
INVESTMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS                -        -       -          -
REIMBURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.              184     350    295         587
OTHER                                    1,807   5,815  3,105        3,493
TOTAL BORROWINGS                         1,991   6,175  3,400        4,080
CHANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-GURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS                   (534) (1,633)   (79)        (561)
TOTAL                                  1,777   5,018  3,622        4,391
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                   1,777   5,018  3,622       4 391
POWER PROJECUrS IN OTHER REPUBLICS              -        --     -           -
rOTAL                                1,777   5,018  3,622       4,391
RATIOS (INSCLUDING NON-KEIMB.
------   CONSUMkER CONTBNS.)
GONTRIBUTLoN To INVESTrMENT
LOCAL I\VESTM*NT                         18U.0/    8.11     .52    (15.6%)
TOTAL INVESTMENT                         18.o/    8.11   5.5/.    (15.6%)
TOTAL INVESTMENT LESS SllARE
OF OTHER REPUBLICS                     186.0     8.17,   5.       (15.o%)
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                        2.1       1.7    1.2        0.4
TirE OF RETURN                              '.7-    4.31   2.7.Y       (3.8%)
Aprii 1983
(789P, p.41)



- 94 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 11 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA CRNE CORE
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --         EST.
1979    1980   1981       1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                  3,571   3,638  3,585      4,003
AVEKAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS          0.52    0.61   0.89        1.29
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                          387      516    649        872
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                      450     667  1,448      3,137
OTHER ENTERPRISES                   1,018   1,021  1,094      1,137
SUBTOTAL                    1,855   2,204  3,191       5,146
OstER REVENUES                         125      143     29         36
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES             1,980   2,347  3,220      5,182
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASES OF ELECTRICITY               572     959  1,807      3,370
FUEL                                     4       4       5          6
SALARIES & WAGES                       139     126    142        170
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                  205     164    217        250
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS             171     114    133        153
DEPRECIATION                           400     314    430        647
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES               1,491   1,681  2,734      4,596
OPERATING INCOME                         489      666    486        586
INTEREST ON LOANS                        162     185    365        325
NET INCOME (LOSS)                        327     481    121        261
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                         256     368      55       188
RESERVE FUND                           23      45      34        36
COLLECTIVE OSMPTN. + OTHER FUNDS       48      68      32         37
TOTAL                                 327     481    121        261
April 1983
(769P,p.42)



- 95 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 12 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA CRNE GORE
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --           EST.
1979    1980    1981         1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSESS IN SERVICE                   10,637  12,439  15,339       19,017
LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION            2,906   3,723   4,544         5,873
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE             7,731   8,716  10,795        13,144
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                  2,622   3,950   5,093         5,570
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                 10,353  12,666  15,888        18,714
OTrHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBL.              -        -       -           -
OTHER INVESTMENTS                           44      64       85          98
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                      119     237      283         325
OrTER                                      514     64S      704         823
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS                  677      949   1,072        1,246
CUARENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                               695     744      828         952
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                    114     173      222         357
OTHER                                      103     473      364         419
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                      912   1,395   1,414         1,728
TOTAL ASSETS                             11,942  15,010  18,374        21,688
LIABILICIES
BUSINESS FUND                              6,477   7,949  10,136       11,943
RESERVE FUND                                  89      212     249         285
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS         290     414      501         538
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                  6,856   8,575  10,886        12,766
DOMESTIC PARTNERS' INVESTMENT FDS.             -                 -           -
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                   6,856   8,575  10,886        12,766
LONG TERM DEBT                            4,722   5,972   6,649         7,957
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES                 88       35     167          192
CURRENT LIABILITIES                          276     428      672          773
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        11,942  15,010  18,374        21,688
DEBT/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO                41/59   41/59   38/62         38/62
April 1983
(769P,p.4d)



- 96 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 13 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA CRNE GORE
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
SOURCES & APPLICATiONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS:  1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --           EST.
1979    1980   1981         1982
SOURCES Or FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                    489      666    486          586
DEPRECIATION                               400      314    430         647
GROSS CASH GENERATION                      889      980    916       1,233
LESS:DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                              (278)   (228)  (393)         (687)
INTEREST                                  (162)   (185)  (365)         (325)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                        (440)   (413)  (758)      (1,012)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)                449      567    158          221
CONSUMER CONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)                 -        -       -           -
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.         449      567    158          221
SUBSIDJIES                                     _        _       _
OTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                         -        -       -           -
D4OMESTIC 'NERS INVESTMENT FDS.                -        -       -           -
BORROWINGS
10VESTIMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS               -        -      -           -
REiABURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.               -        -      -         403
OTHER                                      715   1,478  1,070        1,592
TOTAL BORROWINGS                           715   1,478  1,070        1,995
CHANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS                    (42)   (599)   167          (362)
TOTAL                                 1,122   1,446  1,395         1,854
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                  1,122   1,446  1,395         1,854
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBLICS              -        -       -           -
TOTAL                               1,122   1,446  1,395         1,854
RATIOS (INCLUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONTBNS.)
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                        40.U%   39.2%  11.3%         11.9%
TOTAL INVES'iAENT                       40.0%   39.2%. 11.3%         11.9%
TOTAL INVESTMENT LESS SHARE
OF OTaER REPUBLICS                    40.0%   39.2%  11.3%         11.9%
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                        2.0      2.4    1.2          1.2
RATE OF RETURN                             12.7%    8.1%   5.0%          4.9%
April 1983
(7891',p.44)



- 97 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 14 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
ZDRUZENA ELEKTROPRIVREDA
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --          EST.
1979    1980    1981        1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                   21,598  24,314  23,617    22,614
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS             0.53    0.77    1.06         1.28
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                          8,233  13,537  12,455    16,870
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                      1,043   1,557   1,382        1,797
OTHER ENTERPRISES                     2,270   3,665  11,121    10,241
SUBTOTAL                     11,546  18,759  24,958    28,908
OTHER REVENUES                            148     263   1,168       1,526
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES              11,694  19,022  26,126    30,434
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASES OF ELECTRICITY               2,584   2,876   1,738        2,293
FUEL                                   2,795   5,216   8,036        9,611
SALARIES & WAGES                         818   1,U05   1,416        1,699
cYfHER OPERATING COSTS                   790   1,489   3,045        3,715
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS               858   1,209   1,534        1,830
DEPRECIATION                           1,853   2,601   3,245        3,756
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                 9,698  14,396  19,014    22,904
OPERATING INCOME                          1,996   4,626   7,112       7,530
INTEREST ON LOANS                           836   1,320   1,939       2,163
NET INCOME (LOSS)                         1,160   3,306   5,173       5,367
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                           998   3,016   4,512        4,695
RESERVE FUND                             85      179      248        177
COLLECTIVE CSMPTN. + OTHER FUNDS          77     111.     413        495
TOTAL                                 1,160   3,306   5,173        5,367
April 1983
(789P,p.33)



- 98 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 15 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
ZDRUZENA ELEKTROPRIVREDA
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL      --          EST.
1979    1980      1981        1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                  63,440  78,720  101,645    115,266
LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION           18,937  25,326   35,675       44,382
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE           44,503  53,394   65,970        70,884
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                  6,898  10,842   17,341       38,101
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                 51,401  64,236   83,311    108,985
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBL.             -        -      507         797
OTHER INVESTMENTS                         284      326      354         354
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                   5,360   7,363    8,974        9,403
OTHER                                   2,976   6,455    6,513        6,532
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS                8,620  14,144   16,348       17,086
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                            1,514   2,814    4,464        4,640
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                 1,572   2,178    3,624        1,584
OTHER                                   2,554   2,591    2,979        3,426
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    5,640   7,583   11,067        9,650
TOTAL ASSETS                             65,661  85,963  110,726    135,721
LIABILITIES
BUSINESS FUND                            36,J34  48,160   67,597       80,194
RESERVE FUND                                504      645      859       1,036
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTRER FUNDS   1,819   2,339    2,934           3,429
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                 38,857  51,144   71,390       84,659
DOMESTIC PARTNERS' INVESTMENT FDS.            -        -         -           -
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                  38,857  51,144   71,390       84,659
LONG TERM DEBT                           22,796  30,725   33,846       42,135
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES                 -        -         -      4,817
CURRENT LIABILITIES                       4,008   4,094    5,490        4,110
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        65,661  85,963  110,726    135,721
DEBT/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO                37/63   38/62    32/68        33/67
April 1983
(789P,p.34)



- 99 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 16 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
ZDRUZENA ELEKTROPRIVREDA
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
SOURCES b APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS:  1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --        EST.
1979    1980    1981      1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                 1,99b   4,626   7,112    7,530
DEPRECIATION                            1,853   2,601   3,245    3,756
GROSS CASH GENERATION                   3,849   7,227  10,357   11,286
LESS:ODEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                           (1,241) (3,285) (3,171)  (4,548)
INTEREST                                 (836) (1,320) (1,939)  (2,163)
TOTAL DEB'T SERVICE                    (2,077) (4,605) (5,110)  (6,711)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)             1,772   2,622   5,247    4,575
CONSU14ER CONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)               -        -       -         -
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.    1,772   2,622   5,247    4,575
SUBSIDIES                                     -        _       _         _
OTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                        -      106    (178)        -
DOMESTIC P'NERS INVESTMENT FDS.               -        -       -         -
BORROWINGS
INVESTMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS               -       -        -        -
REIMBURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.              -       -        -        -
DY'HER                                  4,92t   9,877   9,622   12,837
TOTAL BORROWINGS                        4,926   9,877   9,622   12,837
CdANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS                  (981) (5,587) (7,115)   4,406
TOTAL                                 5,717   7,018   7,576   21,818
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                 5,717   7,018   7,069   21,528
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBLICS             -        -     507       290
TOTAL                               5,717   7,018   7,576   21,818
RATIOS (INCLUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONTBNS.)
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                        31.0%   37.4%   74.2%    21.3%
TOTAL INVESTMENT                        31.0%    37.4%   69.3%    21.0%
TOTAL 1NVESTMENT LESS SHARE
OF OTHER REPUBLICS                    31.0%   37.4%   69.3%    21.0%
DEB'T SERVICE COVERAGE                      1.9      1.6     2.0       1.7
HATE OF RETURN                             9.u%    9.5%   11.9%    11.0%
April 1983
(789P, p.35)



- 100 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 17 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF KOSOVO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA KOSOVA
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --         EST.
1979    1980   1981       1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                    3,235   2,913  2,961    3,588
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS            0.67    0.92   1.17       1.50
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                           818   1,241  1,477    2,291
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                       433      979  1,390    1,947
OTHER ENTERPRISES                      909      465    607    1,133
SUBTOTAL                     2,160   2,685  3,474    5,371
(YfHER REVENUES                          101      62    135        155
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES              2,261   2,747  3,609    5,526
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCH,SES OF ELECTRICITY                   -       -       -         -
FUEL                                  1,079   1,314  1,624    1,885
SALARIES & WAGES                        348      408    579        793
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                    137     145    131        199
STArUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS              148      254    254        387
DEPRECIATION                            424      525    675    1,425
TOTAL OPERTIING EXPENSES                2,136   2,646  3,263    4,689
OPERATING INCOME                           125      101    346       837
INTEREST ON LOANS                           46      31      95       699
NET INCOME (LOSS)                           79       70    251       138
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                           38       30      75         -
RESERVE FUND                             13      14      22        23
COLLECTIVE CSMPTN. + OTHER FUNDS        28       26    154        115
TOTAL                                   79       70    251        138
April 1983
(789P,p.3U)



- 101 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 18 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF KOSOVO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA KOSOVA
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1'79-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --              EST.
1979    1980    1981            1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                   8,831  10,642  16,716           28,499
LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION            4,397   5,826   9,542           12,612
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE             4,434   4,816   7,174          15,887
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                  4,632   7,766  14,711           10,601
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                  9,066  12,582  21,885          26,488
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBL.             -        -        -              -
OTHER INVESTMENTS                          71       59     231             265
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                     281      305     545             626
OTHER                                     554      479     820             943
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS                  906      843   1,596           1,834
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                              299      484     665             764
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                   361      174     343            394
OTHER                                     587      941   1,251           1,438
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    1,247   1,59S1   2,259          2,596
TOTAL ASSETS                             11,219  15,024  25,740          30,918
LIABILITIES
BUSINESS FUND                             4,255   4,993   7,895            9,215
RESERVE FUND                                 22       52       57             80
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS        422      574     458             573
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                  4,699   5,619   8,410           9,868
DOMESTIC PARTNERS' INVESTMENT FDS.            -        -        -              -
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                   4,699   5,619   8,410           9,868
LONG TERM DEBT                            5,498   8,619  15,955           19,267
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES               157      107      248            681
CURRENT LIABILITIES                         865      679   1,127           1,102
COTAL LIABILITIES                        11,219  15,024  25,740          30,918
DEBT/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO                54/46   61/393  61/39            66/34
April 1983
(7d9P,p.31)



- 102 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 19 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF KOSOVO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA KOSOVA
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS: 1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --         EST.
1979    1980   1981       1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                  125      101    346       837
DEPRECIATION                             424     525    675       1,425
GROSS CASH GENERATION                    549     626  1,021      2,262
LESS:DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                            (148)    (88)  (223)   (1,127)
INTEREST                                 (46)    (31)   (95)      (699)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                      (194)   (119)  (318)   (1,826)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)              355     507    703        436
C3NSUMER CONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)             355     323  1,206        458
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.       710     830  1,909        894
SUBSIDIES                                    -        -      -          _
OTtlER NON-OPER. INCOME                      -        -      -          -
DOMESTIC P'NERS INVESTMENr FDS.              -                          -
BORROWINGS
INVESTMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS              -     247    986      3,094
REIMBURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.             -       -       -         -
OTHER                                  2,185   2,962  6,573      1,345
TOTAL BORROWINGS                       2,185   3,209  7,559      4,439
CHANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS                 (118)   (525)  (824)      (167)
TOTAL                                2,777   3,514  8,644      5,166
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                2,777   3,514  8,b44       5,166
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBLICS            -        -      -          -
TOTAL                              2,777   3,514  8,644      5,166
RATIOS (INCLUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONTBNS.)
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                       25.6%   23.6%  22.1%      17.3%
TOTAL INVESTMENT                       25.6%   23.6%  22.1%      17.3%
TOTAL INVESTMENT LESS SHARE
OF OTHER REPUBLICS                   25.6%   25.4%  24.9%      43.1%
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                      4.7      8.0    7.0        1.5
RATE OF RETURN                           21.7%    9.2%  25.9%       11.2%
April 198i
(7 89P , p. 3 2)



- 103 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 20 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF VOJVODINA
ELEKTROVOJVODINA
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND I)ISTRIBUTION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL   --          EST.
1979    1980   1981        1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                    3,859   4,248  5,324       5,829
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS            0.90    1.31   1.78        2.30
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                         3,460   5,549  8,460    11,756
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                         -        -    998       1,652
OTaER ENTERPRISES                         1        2      3          -
SUBTOTAL                     3,461   5,551  9,461    13,408
OTHER REVENUES                           105     310    423         593
TOaAL OPERATING REVENUES              3,566   5,861  9,884    14,001
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASES OF ELECTRICITY              2,446   3,599  6,462        8,065
FUEL                                       -        -      -      1,048
SALARIES & WAGES                         295     398    463         659
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                    130     196    278         454
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS               128     192    222         295
DEPRECIATION                             355     557    687       1,202
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                 3,354   4,942  8,112    11,723
OPERATING INCOME                           212      919  1,772      2,278
INTEREST ON LOANS                           39      103    120        315
NET INCOME (LoSS)                          173      816  1,652      1,963
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                           125     737  1,542       1,795
RESERVE FUND                             16 3l           64         80
COLLECTIVE CSAPTN. + cIytER FUNDS       32       41      46         88
TO'TAL                                 173      81d  1,652       1,963
April 1983
(789',p.45)



- 104 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 21 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF VOJVODINA
ELEKTROVOJVODINA
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --          EST.
1979    1980    1981        1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                  8,458  14,110  19,403    27,670
LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION           4,678   7,172  10,301    13,048
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE            3,780   6,938   9,102    14,622
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                 2,254   4,116   5,554        6,625
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                 6,034  11,054  14,656    21,247
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OEHER REPUBL.             -     164      320      3,518
OTHER INVESTMENTS                        107   1,992   4,083          896
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                    749   1,349   1,176        1,352
OTHER                                  1,065   1,296   1,370        1,580
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS               1,921   4,801   6,949        7,346
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                             211      690      756        870
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                  496      970   1,364       1,932
OTHER                                    210      232      416        478
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                     917   1,892   2,536        3,280
TOTAL ASSETS                             8,872  17,747  24,141    31,873
bIA6ILITIES
BUSINESS FUND                            4,747   8,335  12,350    16,916
RESERVE FUND                                49       93      147        227
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS    384         543      566        654
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                 5,180   8,971  13,063    17,797
DOMESTIC PkATNERS' INVESTMENT FDS.            -       -        -          -
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                  5,180   8,971  13,063    17,797
LONG TERM DEBT                           2,382   6,549   8,623    11,253
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES               542     925      232        267
CURRENT LIABILITIES                         768   1,302   2,223       2,556
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        8,872  17,747  24,141    31,873
DEBT/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO               31/69   42/58   40/60        39/61
April 1983
(789P,p.46)



- 105 -                     ANNEX 5.1
Page 22 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF VOJVODINA
ELEKTROVOJVODINA
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS: 1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --         EST.
1979    1980    1981        1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                   212     919   1,772      2,278
DEPRECIATION                             355      557      687     1,202
GROSS CASH GENERATION                    567   1,476   2,459       3,480
LESS-DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                              (96)   (400) (1,984)       (817)
INTEREST                                  (39)   (103)   (120)      (315)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                       (135)   (503) (2,104)   (1,132)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)               432     973      355     2,348
CONSUMER CONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)                -       -        -          -
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.        432     973      355     2,348
SUBSIDIES                                     -       -        -          -
OTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                        -       -   1,132       1,406
DOMESTIC P-NERS INVESTMENT FDS.               -       -        -          -
BORROWINGS
INVESTMENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS              -        -        -         -
REIMBURSABLE CONSUMER CONTBNS.              5   1,525   1,381      1,664
OTtIER                                  1,038   3,042   2,677      1,783
TOTAL BORROWINGS                       1,043   4,567   4,058       3,447
CHANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OUHER ADJUSTMENTS                   (39) (2,421) (1,315)    2,425
TOTAL                                1,436   3,1L19   4,230      9,626
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                 1,43o   2,955   4,074      6,428
PONER PROJECTS LN OTHER REPUBLICS             -     L64      156     3,198
FOTAL                              1,436   3,L19   4,230       9,626
RATIOS (INCLUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONTBNS.)
CONTRilBUTION TO INVESTFiENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                       30.1%   32.9%    8.7%       36.5%
TOTAL INVESYMENT                       30.1%    31.2%    8.4%      24.4%
TOTAL iNVESTMENT' LESS SHARE
OF JfdER REPUBLlCS                   30.1%   31.2%      8.4%     24.4%
DEBT SERVIGE COVERAGE                      4.2      2.9      1.2        3.1
RATE OF RETURN                            L1.2%   17.1%   22.1%       19.2%
April 1963
(7t9P, p.47)



- 106 -                    ANNEX 5.1
Page 23 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ELEKTROGOSPODARSTVO SLOVENIJE (EGS)
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL    --        EST.
1979    1980    1981      1982
ELECTRICITY SALES-GWH                  7,035   7,421   7,876    9,737
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH-DINARS          0.82    1.06    1.56        2.41
OPERAEING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION                        4,945   6,742  10,733   17,751
DIRECT CUSTOMERS                      822   1,143   1,529    2,456
OTHER ENTERPRISES                       15      13       44    3,255
SUBTOTAL                     5,782   7,898  12,306   23,462
OTHER REVENUES                          191     298      191      300
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES             5,973   8,196  12,497   23,762
OPERATING EXPENSES
PU&CRASES OF ELECTRICITY                615     917   1,270       502
FUEL                                  1,893   2,926   4,740    7,484
SALARIES & WAGES                        951     861   1,006    1,372
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                  597      780      875    1,456
STATUTORY & CONTR. OBLIGNS              708     796      926    1,439
DEPRECIATION                         1,679   2,171   2,925    6,805
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES               6,443   8,451  11,742   19,058
OPERATING INCOME                         (470)   (255)    755    4,704
INTEREST ON LOANS                        393      480      482    4,243
NET INCOME (LOSS)                        (863)   (735)    273       461
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS)
BUSINESS FUND                        (863)   (735)       44      110
RESERVE FUND                            -        -       67      202
COLLECTIVE CSMPTN. + OTHEK FUNDS        -        -      162      149
TOrAL                                (863)   (735)    273        461
April 1983
(789P,p.36)



- 107 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 24 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ELEKTROGOSPODARSTVO SLOVENIJE (EGS)
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1979-82
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
--  ACTUAL      --          EST.
1979    1980      1981        1982
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                  50,020  62,261  114,413    134,350
LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION           22,510  28,699   41,989       54,649
NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE            27,510  33,562   72,424       79,701
FIXED ASSETS IN PROGRESS                 13,763  19,183    7,149        7,809
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                 41,273  52,745   79,573       87,510
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
POWER PROJECTS IN OTHER REPUBL.           200      797    1,993       3,936
OTHER INVESTMENTS                       2,494   2,900    3,456        4,600
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                   1,983   2,094    2,085        4,870
OTHER                                   4,202   5,704    2,440        6,750
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS                8,879  11,495    9,974       20,156
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & NOTES                            1,540   1,850    1,889        2,300
RECEIVABLES - CUSTOMERS                   421     887    3,642        4,105
OTHER                                   2,782   3,976    8,152        8,544
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    4,743   6,713   13,683       14,949
TOTAL ASSETS                             54,895  70,953  103,230    122,615
LIABILITIES
BUSINESS FUND                            20,924  26,714   39,723       48,516
RESERVE FUND                                148      123       176        378
COLLECTIVE CONSUMPTION & OTHER FUNDS   1,300   1,689    2,297           2,446
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS                22,372  28,531   42,196        51,340
DOMESTIC PARTNERS  INVESTMENT FDS.          642      834    2,104       2,450
TOTAL PERMANENT FUNDS                 23,014  29,365   44,300        53,790
LONG TERM DEBT                           24,399  30,495   46,145       62,454
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES                 -        -        -           -
CUARENT LIABILITIES                       7,482  11,093   12,785        6,371
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        54,895  70,953  103,230    122,615
DEBT/PERMANENT FUNDS RATIO                52/48   51/49    51/49        54/46
April 1983
(789P,p.37)



- 108 -                     ANNEX 5.1
Page 25 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ELEKTROGOSPODARSTVO SLOVENIJE (EGS)
POWER GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS:  1979-1982
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
-- ACTUAL      --         EST.
1979    1980     1981       1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                (470)   (255)      755     4,704
DEPRECIATION                          1,679   2,171    2,925      6,805
.   ~ ~ ~ ~  - - --   - - - -   - - - - _- --__ _---__ _       _ _ _ 
GROSS CASH GENERATION                 1,209   1,916    3,680    11,509
LES S:DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                         (1,038) (1,089)  (1,343)   (1,984)
INTEREST                               (393)   (480)    (482)   (4,243)
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   (1,431) (1,569)  (1,825)   (6,227)
NET CASH GENERATION (DEFICIT)            (222)    347    1,855      5,282
CONSUMER GONTBNS. (NON-REIMB.)              -        -        -          -
NET CASH GENERATION & CONS. CONTBNS.    (222)    347    1,855       5,282
SUBSIDIES                                 863      735        -          -
OTHER NON-OPER. INCOME                      -        -        -          -
DOMESTIC P'NERS INVESTMENT FDS.           310      192    1,270        346
BORROWINGS
INVESTM4ENT BY OTHER REPUBLICS        1,015   1,805    1,819      1,824
RlE iMBURSABLE CONSUtER CONTBNS.      2,997   3,119    3,158      4,300
OTLER                                 2,681   2,261   12,016    12,169
TOTAL BORROWINGS                      6,693   7,185   16,993    18,293
CdANGES IN NET CURRENT &
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND
MISC. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS              (3,174)  1,087  (13,838)  (13,289)
TOTAL                               4,470   9,546    6,280    10,632
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
LOCAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE               4,270   8,949    5,084       8,689
POWER PROJECTS iN OTHER REPUBLICS         200      597    1,196      1,943
TOTAL                             4,470   9,546    6,280    10,632
RxrIoS (INC LUDING NON-REIMB.
------   CONSUMER CONTBNS.)
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT
LOCAL INVESTMENT                      (5.2/)   3.9%    36.52       60.8%
TOTAL INVESTMENT                     -(5.02)   3.6%    29.5%      49.7%
TOTAL INVESTMENT LESS SHARE
OF OrIIER REPUBLICS                 (6.42)   4.i%    41.62      60.0%
DEBT' SERVICE COVERAGE                    0.8      1.2      2.0        1.8
RATE OF RETURN                          (3.42)  (0.82)    1.4%       6.2%
April 1983
(789P, p.38)



- 109 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 26 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
TRIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1983
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
Bosinia-
Herzegovina    Croatia       Macedonia    Monteneg o        Serbia       Kosovo      Vojvolina    Clovenia
Electrici:y Sales-GWh                    11,455        11,332        5,119           4,164        23,061       6,260          6,178       11,150
Average Reveniue per KWh-Din.              2.46          2.75          1.67           1.56           1.72        1.81          2.78         2.91
Saies of Electricity                     28,208        31,196        8,550           6,491        39,611      11,349         17,168       32,46R
Other Revenues                            2,120        10,343             0             43         1,141          200         1,306          30n
Total Operating Revenues           30,328        41,539         8,550          6,534         40,752      11,549        18,474        32,768
Purchases of Electricity                  3,927        10,441        2,373           1,919         2,255            0        10,188        4,101
Fuel                                      7,057         9,271        4,264           1,017        13,178        3,640         1,556        5,900
Salaries and Wages                        3,698         4,992        1,031             212         2,352       1,036            870        1,Q60
Other Operating Costs                     2,136         5,000        1,337             406         4,638         490            627        2,522
Statutory & Contr. Obligns.                 855         5,316        2,290             214         1,862         942            408        2,l77
Depreciation                              9,034         9,281        3,300           1,023         7,603       2,483          2,109        9,821
Total Operatinig Expenses          26,707        44,301        14,595          4,791         31,888       8,591        15,758       26,476
operating Income (Loss)                   3,621        (2,762)      (6,045)          1,743         8,864       2,958          2,716        6,2Q2
Interest on Loans                        3,673          5,514        1,597             920         2,425       1,404            471        6,537
Net Income (Loss Sefore
SuDsidies)                            (54)       (8,276)       (7,642)           823          6,439       1,554         2,245          (2/Lr
Subsidies                                     -        11,987        7,297               -             -            -             -
Net Iacome (Loss)                     (54)        3,711          (345)           823          6,439       1,554         2,245          (140)
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income (Loss)              3,621         (2,762)      (6,045)         1,747          8,864       2,958         7,716         6,?47
Depreciation                         9,034         9,281         3,300                         7,603       2,48 3 2,109 9,821
Gross Cash Generation               12,653          6,519       (2,745)         2,766         16,467       5,441         4,825        16,113
Less: Debt Service:
Interest                            (3,675)       (5,514)       (1,597)          (920)        (2,425)     (1,404)         (471)      (6,512)
Amortization                        (6,399)        (5,689)      (2,392)           (680)       (5,100)     (2,028)          (966)      (9,066)
Net Cash Generation (Deficit)             2,581        (4,684)      (6,734)          1,166         8,942       2,009          3,388          515
Consumer Contbns. (Non-reimb.)              634         78           1000               -               -        245              -            -
Net Cash Generation &
Consumner Contributions                   3,215         2,496       (5,734)          1,16,5        8,942       2,254          3,388          515
Capital Expenditure                     IA,-435        11,510        6,161           3,009        26,672       2,899         11,393       10,39?
Contribution to Investment                22.3%         21.7%             -          38.8%         33.5%       77.8%          29.7%          5,0%
April 1983
(789P,p.48)



- 110 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 27 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1984
(MILLIONS OF DINARS)
Bosnia-
Herzegovina    Croatia       Macedonia    Montenegro       Serbia      Kosovo      Vojvodina    Slovenia
Electricity Sales-GWh                   12,456        12,193        5,758          4,228        24,158       6,845          6,549       11,819
Average Revenue per kWh-Din.              3.32          3.71         2.25           2.11          2.32         2.44          3.75         3.*0
Sales of Electricity                   41,354         45,236       13,016          8,921        56,047      16,702        24,559       46,444
Other Revenues                           2,490        10,500          142             49          1,289         224         3,0q           3(ln
Total Operating Revenues          43,844        55,736        13,158          8,970        57,336      16,926        27,654       46,74Q
Purcnases of Electricity                 4,478        11,447        2,652          2,202         2,940            -       13,160         5,449
Fuel                                     9,791        15,283        6,545          1,267        18,576       4,986          3,652        7,803
Salaries aad Wages                       5,122         6,476        1,428            286         3,162       1,316          1,032        ?,493
Other Operating Costs                    2,669         6,574        1,985            523         6,053          613           895       4,312
Statutory & Gontr. Obligns.              1,070         6,333        3,225            287         2,079       1,178            558        3,594
Depreciation                            11,872        12,823        4,598          1,508        11,965       3,147          2,928       12,512
Total Operating Expenses          35,002        58,936       20,433           6,073        44,775      11,240        22,225       36,163
Operating Income (Loss)                  8,842        (3,200)      (7,275)         2,897        12,561        5,686         9,429       10,586
interest on Loans                        4,863         5,665        2,069          1,311         3,224       1,641            691        7,224
Net Income (Loss)                  3,979         (8,865)      (9,344)         1,586         9,337       4,045         4,738        3,362
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income (Loss)              8,842        (3,200)      (7,275)         2,897        12,561       5,686         9,429       10,586
Depreciation                       11,872         12,823        4,598          1,508        11,965       3,147         2,928       12,519
Gross Cash Generation              20,714          9,623       (2,677)         4,405        24,256       8,833         8,357       23,nQ8
Less: Debt Service:
Inlterest                           (4,863)       (5,665)      (2,069)        (1,311)       (3,224)     (1,641)       (  691)    ( 7,224)
Amortization                        (7,663)       (5)          (3,245)        (  825)       (5,884)    (2,329)        (1,450)    (10,027)
Net Caslh Generation (Deficit)           8,188        (1,860)      (7,991)         2,269        15,418       4,863          6,216        5,R47
Consumer Contbns. (Non-reimb.)             836         9,095        1,443               -             -         284             -            -
Net Cash Generation 6
Co"sumer Contbns.                        9,024         7,235       (b,548)         2,269        15,418       5,147          6,216        5,847
Capital Expenditure                     19,043        23,289       13,786          3,291        20,262       3,799         16,831       10,915
Contribution to Investnent               47.4%         31.1Z            -          68.9%         76.1Z      135.5%          36.9%        93.67w
April 1983
(789P,p.49)



- 111 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 28 of 29
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION IPROJECT
Notes to Financial Statements and Projections
Basis of Financial Statements and Projections
1.       The financial statements for 1979, 1980 and 1981 in this Annex are
for the most part based on the unaudited and unconsolidated financial
statements of the borrowers, reclassified to conform to the Bank's customary
format for appraising public utility projects. Since the actual 1982
statements will not be available until later this year, the figures for 1982
are based on the borrowers' plan figures for that year (modified where deemed
necessary) but take into account actual 1982 tariff increases. The
projections for the years 1983 and 1984 are based on short and medium term
plan figures, inflation rates as estimated at the beginning of 1983 1/, and
tariff increases of 25% from March 5, 1983 and a further 35% (15% in real
terms) from January 1, 1984.
2.       The statements include the republican/provincial electricity
distribution activities, except in Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, where the
distribution organizations have not, so far, formed a composite organization
or do not pool revenues, with the generation and transmission organizations.
Fixed Assets and Depreciation
3.       Under Yugoslav law, fixed assets and the accumulated depreciation are
revalued in any year in which inflation has attained 10% or more since the
last revaluation.
Maintenance and Repairs
4.       Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, except in
Macedonia where the accounts include a reserve built up by annual charges.
1/ Retail Prices: 1983 - 30%; 1984 - 25% p.a. (applied on salaries and
wages, expenses for gas and oil, and other operating costs).
Producer Prices: 1983 - 27%; 1984 - 22% p.a. (applied on expenses for
coal and lignite).



- 112 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 29 of 29
Long-Term Debt
5.       Long-term debt shown in the balance sheets includes the portion due
within one year; the information available during appraisal was insufficient
to permit determination of the current portion.
Business Fund, Reserve Fund, Collective Consumption Fund
6.       The Business Fund is an equity fund consisting mainly of accumulated
income and of surplus arising on the annual revaluation of fixed assets.
Certain revenues and expense items, for example connection charges and
investment income, are credited or debited direct to the Business Fund without
transiting through the Income Statement.
7.       The Reserve Fund is a legal reserve required under Yugoslav law which
can be used only for specific, limited purposes, such as absorbing losses and
paying creditors, wages and salaries in case of insolvency. It is built up by
appropriation from income of 2.5% of Dohodak (income before salaries and
wages, and certain other items) until a maximum amount representing 25% of
average Dohodak for the past three years is reached.
8.       The Collective Consumption Fund is maintained in accordance with
Yugoslav law for the general welfare of employees and provides amenities such
as housing, meals, sports facilities and holiday benefits.
April 1983
(789P,p.23)



- 113 -                 ANNEX 6
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Law on Association in the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry  -
April 1978.
2.    Self-Management Agreement on Joint Operation in the Yugoslav Electric
Power System - June 1981.
3.    Self-Management Agreement on the Premises of Harmonization of
Development Plans of Electric Energy Organizations Associated in the Yugoslav
Electric Energy Community - October 1980.
4.    Self-Management Agreement on Association in Yugoslav Electric Energy
Community - October 1980.
5.    Documentation on Creation, Appointing, Organization, and Work of the
Coordinating Committee for Construction of Energy Management System in the
Yugoslav Electric Power System - December 198 .
6.    Feasibility Study for Modernization and Further Development of the
Energy Management System and Joint Operation in the Yugoslav Electric Power
System - July 1981.
7.    Preliminary Design Real-Time System for the Yugoslav Energy Management
System - December 1982.
8.    Preliminary Design Operations Planning System for the Yugoslav Energy
iManagement System - October 1982.
9.    Preliminary Design Digital Communications Network for the Yugoslav
Energy Management System - October 1982.
10.   Tender Documents Microwave Telecommunications Network for the Yugoslav
Energy Management System - October 1982.
NOTE: A copy of the Self-Management Agreement on Joint Construction of the
Yugoslav Energy Management System is expected before Board Presentation.
April 1983
(807P,p.7)






A    U   S   T   R   I  A                                                                                                                              /  1'  0'ED REP OF, C  ZE  O IAM
,       zOV<                                                    v                              H  U N G  A R Y                                        :NEi        
tL jublijan               z /            v                                                                                                                                                 BU  4',5aTLy\ '.GARIA &:C'
<<  \,__ g._/ tb~roria(  
f~~~~~~~~                                                                                          V o 0             d /,o e\  a. /    R Z                     M A    N      I A  
0:    :   Q   ,4\  \  ;<evo t -r) kaguie~~Djakvoc   
-3 8          BkVl Luksosso                                                                                                               LGR    02 \ ; 0  t )   \/aADE itna ,      B L AI
220 kV tronsmiss;cn hr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ;     ' \%f .k osovo  
4'   R    t ll b   njqries  \ 0;  :    \       :   :   :  0 0   \O r: n; i;            .                          >        .D>erdap
-.~~~~~~~                                        ~~~ NAtnmu   prvic                zlajrisR          Ob.nv                                                          li:    1-t  P-t) ;i:t:    : t    ;f;Skpe~
~~~~~~~~~ -.IFrsoa  bonare                        Z  E;   G  0  V:2X  NtAirSEU:     ;0p       
KilomeVers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~K 0   0 10BS  r   :Se :0  ::0                                    )A          fDC  
hAilesO  25  50  75  10    (09   i\ 2\0  Ei    E   \l ;;;l    ;  2 iua2iWA  L  B  A  N   I A\)                     raguievoc
Thm   r   phaS   eenPreh  d  y Ie YTld anka na{/ ril6fve; fr te COVI]fRn \ '2 '\ 'Tcir l  ev
toUNddrI?D alluw~~niso/Ih Spli 1,122t-he Buke BiGm2'jO 2                                                          ddlaS  \       ?A ? 
8=ncoofsuhboutid2rs   7  1'tt90{Jnrleororynrbyyendor   lLfDl  162     ;L   0   4    ;   zUo    _    q<                 r        Z2   G  R    E    ENCs






A   U   S  T   R   I  A               Cc)I:                                                                   z              RANCE ?GERMAiNY >. ECHO5OK               EEMR 9:
Fg'   '_r' PDJ;g:   R                                                                               IRtAi H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"UNGAR        
< iv  LPizilqX 5 L  >-                   A                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H U N G A R Y                g , 4                                    tMNA
rzo<    L a/ ubloni  ;  : .sadg 
0  E ki   r,   :                         < f  t  -  >             ,Novl Sad                            -4~~~~~~~~V       v    ol n  
, 0 \ t. 7  \ nt0z:  2 o  ujx,   ,   B  O   S  N   /  A  Talc   zVornik a!   -b;   [       ABE,LGR /  y          >    >    _ t>DIerdrvER 0   M   A   N   I 
\~~~~~~~~A E                                                   B-'  LA.                                                       rDCI ,   \ c ,,e   olk  W.,.                         '
t0 0;  t t  0   0  ; \  :  ;   |  > S  *  ?    Mor+2   BukBlelo  tMPiievilox                        'GR
0 i; YUGC:f51 AViA t i . -:1 ) ( yR \ R ~~~~~~~~~~~~BE                                              A Djk  Ni 
THIRD:F;tOWE::TRANMlSSlo<pRo)t   \ m-----D'v.5-<              W                           vE  le ,-ik
ENERGYMANAGEMENJ&SYSTaEM~~~~~~~~~~    A:f                           Tufl.VMN  fNGRO      .                               vo
>~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rrpbiirvrcdsocirnes; Zia F    ;: :0: V               ,    rbNe  Prsi BUGR A
bs    Fc (l:JGL dsDpch rerier1 t i    \  )     1 4; ; lg,> > 44   itorsd        1_> = K  o        o        o 
& 4    380 kV substotiira;9ts   \:  :  . :  j \:  t j  :: QE r   TitogZoKd.guj -
-<2  - ~ ' rt thr sbsorSc.s   \ 2      0  : :t\;  :       &     :2 \: Vfd 2AS               .ai_                                           ._ vo
=    -Autoomous    rovinc   boundr jes ij ;\:;: ;g ;A " ;'6 t;t-i:er \6ffi;020 gii' : <  B  k   o je x 
-*-Internationai boundaries   :  :  \  : U i A j j  nr s    , 1 5 ,  i    _ /        2 )             ! ', Skopie~~~~~~~Ni
YUGOSLAV]: A                   ;,SyS ::5,\E  A S\R-Ayf'  :2R NNi AF                                                        '.\
a~~~~~ulc /provnce  ispohc hotiecs                             ML n<, PrisV|D,   0_ tina2- lEE  



I



IBRD 16670
~~~~~~~:X                  S'P'                                            ~FE  E  F"                CG GAI'          EPTEMBER 1982
A U  S T  R I  Ak                                                                                                               FRANCE'EMIVx,                           .
~~ S4  AIJYTE  >' ~~~~~~~~~~LisYR
....     ES IVEYEC  PHR,i    AA,                                                                                                                  HU,NGARY
JN    Koan                             .~~~~~~~di,E  - E                      HUN   G                AR      Y                                         &,    _T44'~o,c
K    .-.. I                                                                                                                                          1 
SKALNICA.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"LA'I
V                 `~RTV               '5                  ~.? ,SL  P S,p 5g4TRKEY
V.-N"Nos  Z gre  A ~   ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       '4-                                  tRFCE        
'S   \\    VNANGY   ~TRDINGV VRO ZgeA:
a. PSUNJSS 
MelOa                                                                             EHooSadStO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1%L  -  8  R   0   M   A   N   I A
(  TC4A\4'                       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~GORA   -    .-\"              LretTa           Noa a.d    ,                  ".-
  VTFRGT'A         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ROLCN.l VIS                        V4E N A 
'C                                -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VI'NKOVCI''*.    '.                          '
7ff  <-'~~~~~,  'CK ~~~KOZARA-                                      ..                                                    4
k                          F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLESEEVICA  S~.CR CGTV7  '                                                  
~~~~7   ~~~~~~~~~w                        In~~~~~~7                                                             
<S    5                    .       '  . .                        Js evi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ul -,  Belgrade> Z YIra2Y,
o  "N"  5              .  '                                              GE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORENQOVAC-   "'(4'1
<-'7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--MAJKY CA'                                                               O`C_
5? *>"o                              - >>A7"-"' toz5  "                 'F, O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.AGODNEA  y  R EAR J    N)
"'~~~~~~~~~~~~;AA                                  V7'Ny"-                                                                                        ADV
KA-1                    V.I[...~~~~TOOC                               D.JOA
Canoe                                    7~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~CRNI VRH 
E'~~kISEt ~~  K-onk.                 BEJLA;NICN>   .Y ,YCE 
VOl ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRI 
C> 1'  'V'viGoGvo               'S                                              7EAYERERAC~~~~~~~~~S~
'0<  <4.                                       FI,n,I,a~AIE
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT                                                                                                                 
RADIO RELAY NE6TWORK                              '7'                             Gcko ,E,                                   
F FDC (JUG EL dFspqtF' center)''                              <7GTRG~                                                                     (S4'
5 Republic/provincedispqfch C,~FerS                              >'-L INSTC qirbo-inBUGLGARIA
F~ Termhinal potrvtsof radio relay systmTFga                                                                                                 as,oBLAI
7  eay stations                                                           eOGG'/             ~          -
Passive repeaters                                                                                ji ~Y'5tograd
"'''- 960 ckhanels radio systemrNn
..  300 channel radio systemO'N                                                                                                       7 
......120 c nao1l radio system                                                                                               \ RJV~7'
c'n                                                                                            ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~Skopje  N.,
-   Internaitional boundaries                                 A   d/r i,/7-                                                                            k <'4
SGL GRAVAC!                  - 
K F      0prr  5     0          FOG          150
MOss 5   25  YET  75  FOG~ ~ ~~~~~~) LA  B A N I A'
acrcnt.rc. 'fsoorTooadar,cs                                                                                           ~~~GREECE



