CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2338-0 YU
2338-1 YU
2338-2 YU
2338-3 YU
2338-4 YU
2338-5 YU
2338-6 YU
2338-7 YU
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Power Transmission Project
- Energy Management System)
between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                 October 5, 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2338-0 YU
S                                                   2338-1 YU
2338-2 YU
2338-3 YU
2338-4 YU
2338-5 YU
2338-6 YU
2338-7 YU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1983, between SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith bet-
ween the Bank, party of the first part, "Elektroprivreda Bosne i
Hercegovine" - Sarajevo, "Elektroprivreda Crne Gore" - Niksic,
Zajednica Elektroprivrednih Organizacija Hrvatske - Zagreb,
"Elektrostopanstvo na Makedonija" - Skopje, "Elektrogospodarstvo
Slovenije" - Maribor, "Zdruzena Elektroprivreda" - Beograd,
"Elektroprivreda Kosova" - Pristina, "Elektrovojvodina" - Novi
Sad, parties of the second part (any of such parties of the
second part hereinafter sometimes individually called a Borrower
and all such parties of the second part hereinafter sometimes
collectively called the Borrowers), and Zajednica Jugoslovenske
Elektroprivrede - Beograd, party of the third part (such party of
the third part hereinafter called JUGEL), all such parties of the
second and third parts acting in their own names and in the name
of, and on behalf of, their respective constituent organizations,
the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrowers a loan in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty million dollars
($120,000,000), on the terms and and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrowers in resprezt of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrowers;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 5 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable


﻿-2-
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement, and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and


﻿- 3 -
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Gua-
rantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by any of the Borrowers or by
JUGEL of their respective obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement, and that, within the limits of its constitutional
powers, it will take or cause to be takep all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrowers and JUGEL to
perform such obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Federal Secretary for Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Savezni Sekretarijat za Finansije
3 Omladinskih Brigada
11070 Belgrade
Yugoslavia


﻿-4-
Cable address:                     Telex:
SAVEZNI SEKRETARIJAT ZA
FINANSIJE                    11062 YU SIV
Belgrade, Yugoslavia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto  duly  authorized, have   caused  this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By Is/ B. Loncar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


