Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17755
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
April 24, 1998
Health, Population and Nutrition Unit
South Asia Region
T}iis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 23, 1998)
Currency Unit    =  Indian Rupee (Rs.)
Rupee 1            =  US$0.025
US$1.00            =  Rupee 39.50
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APERP                  Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project
ANM                    Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
CDPO                   Child Development Project Officer
CNC                    Community Nutrition Center
CNS                    Community Nutrition Supervisor
CNW                    Community Nutrition Worker
CNI                    Community Nutrition Instructress
CSSM                   Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project
CTC                    Communications and Training Center
CWO                    Community Welfare Organizers
DEA                    Department of Economic Affairs
DWCD                   Department of Women and Child Development
DWCRA                  Developing Women and Children in Rural Areas
GOI                    Government of India
GOTN                   Government of Tamil Nadu
ICDS                   Integrated Child Development Services
IDA                    International Development Association
IEC                    Information Education and Communication
IMR                    Infant Mortality Rate
LBW                    Low Birth Weight
MTS                    Mid Term Survey
NCHS                   National Center for Health Statistics
NFHS                   National Family Health Survey
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
NNMP                   Nutritious Meals Program
NMC                    Nutritious Meals Center
NNMB                   National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
PMU                    Project Management Unit
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
SRS                    Sample Registration System
TINP                   Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
VHN                    Village Health Nurse
WCDP                   Women and Child Development Project
Vice President                  Mieko Nishimizu
Director                        Edwin Lim
Sector Manager        :         Richard Skolnik
Team Leader                     Anthony Measham



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1NDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRMTON PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                     i
Evaluation Summary                                                         ii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Objectives                                              1
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives                               3
C.    Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation                 12
D.    Project Sustainability                                         13
E.    Bank Performance                                               13
F.    Borrower Performance                                           14
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                          14
H.    Future Operation                                               15
I.    Lessons Leamed                                                 15
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                                  18
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits                                    20
Table 3:     Project Timetable                                       23
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   24
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation               25
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project                         26
Table 7A:    Project Costs                                           28
Table 7B:    Project Financing                                       29
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants                               30
Table 9:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements           35
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                            36
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Missions                                37
APPENDICES
Appendix A. The ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not oth'erwise be disclosed without.
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Tamil Nadu
Integrated Nutrition Project in India (Credit No. 21 58-IN). A total IDA credit of US$95.8 million
(SDR 73.5 million equivalent) was approved on June 14, 1990 and made effective on December
5, 1990. This amount was subsequently reduced to US$72.8 million.
The credit closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1997. The credit amount
was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place in January 1998.
This ICR was prepared by Anthony Measham (Team Leader) and Stuart Gillespie
(Consultant), with technical assistance from Kathleen Finn, Meera Priyadarshi, R. Sethuraman,
Alaka Singh, P. Subramaniyam, and Krishna D. Rao. Nira Singh provided office technology
assistance. The ICR was reviewed by Richard Skolnik (Sector Manager, SASHP) and Kazuko
Uchimura (Project Advisor, SARRI).
Preparation of this ICR began during the October 1997 supervision mission. It is based on
material in the project files, field visits, and discussions with beneficiaries, project staff,
Government officials and Bank staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution. Comments on the report
drafts were received from the Borrower and taken into account in the final version.
The cooperation and assistance of Government of India (GOI) and the Government of
Tamil Nadu (GOTN) are gratefully acknowledged.



i
I[MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Second Tarmil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP II), launched in 1991, was the
second nutrition operation supported by the World Bank in India. Its predecessor, TINP I,
became well-known in international nutrition circles during the 1980s as a "success story", having
achieved a highly significant reduction in severe early childhood malnutrition. Implementation of
TINP II largely overlapped with that of two other IDA-supported Integrated Child Development
Services (ICDS) projects. ICDS I, approved in 1990, covered the states of Andhra Pradesh and
Orissa, while ICDS II, approved in 1993, covered the states of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.
Project Objectives
2.    The overall goal of TINP II was to improve the nutrition and health status of children 0-72
months of age, with particular emphasis on 0-36 month olds, and pregnant and lactating women.
Specifically, the project aimed to (i) reduce severe malnutrition among 6-36 month old children by
50% and 25% in new and existing project areas, respectively; (ii) increase the proportion of 6-36
month old children in normal and Grade I nutritional status by 50% and 35% in new and existing
project areas, respectively; and (iii) to contribute towards a reduction in infant mortality rate from
84 to 55 per 1,000 live births and to a 50% reduction in the incidence of low birth weight.
3.    The project covered a total of 318 of Tamil Nadu's 385 rural blocks in 19 of 23 districts,
including the strengthening of activities in 122 existing (i.e., TINP I) blocks and expansion to 194
additional blocks. The remaining rural blocks were covered by the ICDS program.
4.    The core strategies intended to realize these objectives were regular growth monitoring,
nutrition eduction and health checks for all children, with therapeutic supplementary feeding of
moderately and severely malnourished and growth-faltering children, and high-risk pregnant and
lactating women.
5.    Learning from TINP I, several new or strengthened strategies were proposed for TINP II,
including (i) the inclusion of moderately malnourished children in the supplementary feeding
program; (ii) improved coverage and quality of antenatal services aimed at improving maternal
nutrition and reducing low birth weight incidence; (iii) improved coverage of small hamlets and
outlying habitations through appropriate coverage strategies; (iv) strengthening of health referral
services for diagnosis and treatment of severely malnourished children and high-risk pregnant



ii
mothers; (v) improved child feeding and care practices through effective communications; (vi)
improved co-ordination between nutrition and health personnel through effective joint training
and supervision; and (vii) community education including the formation of new, and strengthening
of existing, women's groups.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project was successful in achieving its severe malnutrition and infant mortality rate
reduction objectives. The moderate malnutrition reduction objective, which in retrospect was too
ambitious, was not achieved, although some progress was made. Limited data render it difficult to
come to a conclusion with regard to the low birth weight incidence objective. Although there is
some evidence to suggest a significant improvement, it seems doubtful that the project made a
major contribution to this change. It appears that the gender gap in child nutritional status which
has existed since the inception of TINP I has narrowed. With regard to geographical targeting, for
the hamlets that were covered, project performance was as effective as in larger, more accessible
villages. Districts which were under TINP I in the 1 980s performed better on average than those
newly-included in TINP II.
7.    Service delivery was patchy with some of the most important process objectives not being
achieved. Block-level training worked well, though there was a significant backlog in refresher
training which compromised quality and led to serious gaps in knowledge and awareness. The
existence of significant inter-district variations in some aspects of service delivery performance
suggests the need for a modular, site-specific approach to training.
8.    The communications component, which was based on sound formative research, was
limited by its bias towards mass media approaches. More attention is required to the development
of the CNW's inter-personal counseling skills. The geographical variation, as with service
delivery, again suggests that strategies should be flexible, decentralized and problem-focused.
9.    After a slow start, community mobilization, and women's group formation and training in
particular, began to pick up in the latter stages of the project, although working groups need
strengthening if real and sustainable community ownership is to be achieved. Linkages to other
government-supported income-generation schemes for women are needed. Opportunities were
realized to orient newly-elected panchayat members who themselves became advocates for the
project.
10.   The monitoring system remains one of the strengths of TINP II, as it was with TINP I.
The system of tracking key process and outcome data, with built-in data quality checks and a
streamlined set of registers, is efficient and action-oriented. Blocks that are found to be lagging
are followed up by district-level officers, and project management is kept informed of district-
level performance through a wall chart that is updated every month. However there are some
serious gaps in monitoring implementation which need to be addressed. Evaluation has been



iii
weak throughout the project, seriously delaying and limiting judgement of progress on objectives.
11.   Overall, the timeliness, quality and utility of operational research was unsatisfactory.
Improved assessment criteria for bidding agencies and better monitoring of progress is required to
ensure timely, high quality work and results which can be used to improve the program during its
lifetime.
12.   Tamil Nadu is one of the five states involved in the forthcoming Woman and Child
Development Project. From January 1998, all the 318 TINP I blocks were incorporated into the
ICDS program, which is being universalized throughout India.
13.   Overall, during the mid-project period from 1993-1995, there was a significant fall-off in
cominitment, integrity and supervision from project management which percolated down to all
levels, adversely affecting morale and motivation. This fall-off reflected major political turmoil
which affected every sector in Tamil Nadu during the period. These problems were addressed in
1996 by a new project team which successfully set about revitalizing the project. Quality
improvement planning, an open, action-oriented management style and supportive supervision
were all institutionalized to this end.
14.   Given the turbulent environment in which the project operated, it continued to function
reasonably well. This owed much to the solid human resource foundation built by TINP I which
was resilient in the face of deteriorating project management. The terminal evaluation impact
findings provide some support for this supposition in that TINP I districts performed particularly
well, and far better than the Phase V districts introduced in 1995.
15.   Bank performance was mixed. On the plus side, assistance was satisfactory through
appraisal and supervision missions were thorough and proactive in dealing with problems.
However, in the several instances where action was not forthcoming, e.g., on emphasizing quality
improvement as much as project expansion, in dealing with the problems of non-resident village
workers, and on procurement irregularities, the Bank should have been more forceful in seeking
appropriate remedies. Bank performance and Borrower performance both improved in the final
two years of the project. Borrower performance compared unfavorably with that under TINP I on
a number of counts, notably in not emphasizing quality of services, the key to reducing moderate
malnutrition.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   The main lesson learned from TINP II is that the strategies adopted to deal with moderate
malnutrition were broadly appropriate, but there is a continuing need to intensify the focus on
localized capacity-building, community mobilization and targeted, inter-personal comnmunications.
Severe malnutrition is now minimal but moderate malnutrition, with all its detrimental
consequences, remains significant. There needs to be greater emphasis in future on improving
home-based care and feeding of the youngest children to prevent them from becoming



iv
malnourished. Geographically, targeting to remote hamlets needs to be prioritized, for example,
through the establishment of mini-centers.
17.   Community ownership should remain a priority goal. The experience in the latter half of
the project with social mobilization should be drawn upon to facilitate active involvement of more
of the community.
18.   Overall, supportive counselling of caregivers and high-quality service delivery, allied with
a concerted move towards social mobilization and participatory planning, should be the pillars of
future nutrition improvement strategy. Decentralization, quality and ownership are key overriding
concerns. For the most part, these lessons have already been woven into the project strategies of
the forthcoming Woman and Child Development Project in Tamil Nadu, and indeed in other
states, though they will need to be vigilantly monitored during its implementation.
19.   Most of these substantive lessons are relevant beyond Tamil Nadu. Nutrition interventions
which are targeted using nutritional criteria, integrated within a broader health system, and
effectively supervised and managed can significantly reduce severe malnutrition. TINP has shown
this. It has also shown that to go further and prevent children from becoming moderately
malnourished is in many ways a harder task and one that requires a significant shift in emphasis.
Nutrition programming in Tamil Nadu is still evolving towards such an approach which stresses
human capacity-building for home-based action, a pro-active integration with the health system,
and the mobilization of communities to sustain the process beyond the project.
20.   For the Bank, the main lesson learned from TINP II is the need for firmer action in dealing
with chronic and persistent problems, such as the failure to carry out the mid-term evaluation
survey in a timely way or the construction of additional nutrition centers in the old blocks of the
project. When delays or persistent problems endanger the achievement of the project's
development objectives, the Bank must be ready to take a firm stand rather than wait in the hope
that agreed actions will be taken.
Assessment of Outcome
21.   The project outcome was marginally satisfactory in that the development objectives were
largely achieved, thus consolidating the gains made by TINP I. However, a marked shift of
emphasis is now required towards support for home-based care if a sustainable reduction in the
moderate malnutrition prevalence is to be achieved.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    Tamil Nadu has been a leader in community-based nutrition programs for the last two
decades. The first IDA-supported nutrition project in India was the Tamil Nadu Integrated
Nutrition Project (TINP I) which had a highly significant and well-documented impact on early
childhood malnutrition between 1980-89. In 1982, the state-funded Nutritious Meals Program
(NMP) was introduced. This program provides a noon meal to children aged 2-14 years and
functions through a state-wide network of feeding centers (NMCs) run by a cadre of Child
Welfare Organizers (CWOs). The Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP II) was
launched in Tamil Nadu in 19 of 23 districts in January 1991.
2.    Implementation of TINP II largely overlapped with that of two IDA-supported Integrated
Child Development Services (ICDS) projects. ICDS I (approved in 1990) covered the states of
Andhra Pradesh and Orissa, while ICDS II (approved in 1993) covered the states of Bihar and
Madhya Pradesh. In addition, the Bank appraised two new nutrition projects in 1997/98: the
ICDS component of the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project which is scheduled for
the Board in June 1998, and the Woman and Child Development Project (WCD) in Kerala,
Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, which awaits Government of India (GOI)
clearance. Other related Bank-assisted projects in India include seven population projects and the
Child Survival and Safe Motherhood operation, which aimed at improving family health and
reducing maternal and child morbidity and mortality.
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The overall goal of TINP II was to improve the nutrition and health status of children 0-72
months of age, with p.articular emphasis on 0-36 month-olds, and pregnant and lactating women.
4.    Project Coverage. TINP II was intended to cover a total of 316 of Tamil Nadu's 385
rural blocks, including the strengthening of activities in 122 existing (i.e. TINP I) blocks and
expansion to 194 additional blocks. The remaining rural blocks are covered by the ICDS program.
In existing TINP bloc]ks, about 6,400 Community Nutrition Centers (CNCs) were to be
amalgamated with the existing NMCs. In new blocks and 20% of villages in existing blocks where
there existed significanat coverage gaps, a total of 12,000 NMCs were to be strengthened by the
addition of a new worker who would provide TINP services to under-three year-old children.
Finally, in 2,200 villages in new and existing blocks which were not covered by either TINP or the
NMP, new centers were to be established with two workers and a helper.
5.    Specific Objectives. The impact objectives of TINP II were:



2
* to reduce severe malnutrition (Grade III and IV) among children 6-36 months by 50%
and 25% in new and existing project areas, respectively;
*  to increase the proportion of children 6-36 months of age in normal and Grade I
nutritional status by 50% and 35% in new and existing project areas, respectively; and
*  to contribute towards a reduction in infant mortality rate from 84 to 55 per 1,000 live
births and to a 50% reduction in the incidence of low birth weight.
Key process objectives are summarized in Table 5.
6.    Project Strategy. The core strategies intended to realize these objectives were:
* regular growth monitoring, nutrition education and health check-up of all children;
and
* therapeutic supplementary feeding of moderately and severely malnourished and
growth-faltering children and high-risk pregnant and lactating women.
7.    On the basis of lessons learned from TINP I, TINP II had several new or strengthened
strategies, including:
*  inclusion of moderately malnourished children in the supplementary feeding program;
*  improved coverage and quality of antenatal services aimed at improving maternal
nutrition and reducing low birth weight incidence;
*  improved coverage of smaller hamlets and outlying habitations through strategies such
as women's working groups, adolescent girls, etc.;
*  strengthening of health referral services for diagnosis and treatment of severely
malnourished children and high-risk pregnant mothers;
*  improved child feeding and care practices through effective communications;
* pre-school education for 3-6 year-old children;
* improved co-ordination between nutrition and health personnel through effective joint
training and supervision; and
* community education including formation of new, and strengthening of existing,
women's groups.



3
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Of the four impact objectives, two were definitely achieved - namely, reduction in severe
malnutrition of 6-36 nnonth-old children and reduction in the infant mortality rate. The moderate
malnutrition reduction objective - which was arguably most important -- was not achieved,
although with hindsight it appears to have been too ambitious. Ex-TINP I districts notably
performed better than newer districts, and there is evidence that girls are no longer more
malnourished than boys. Finally, limitations with birth weight data recording preclude an accurate
assessment of progress towards this objective, but there is evidence that suggests a significant
improvement. However, it seems unlikely that the project made a major contribution to this
change, given the relatively poor performance in providing ante-natal services, e.g., iron folate,
Vitamin A and supplementary food.
9.    To place the irnpact objectives in context, they can be compared with the secular trend of
a 5.6% annual reduction in the prevalence of severe malnutrition (i.e., Grade III and IV weight-
for-age) in Tamil Nadu during the 1980s, according to National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
(NNMB) data. This improvement occurred during the time that TINP I was underway in
approximately half of the rural blocks of the state. TINP II sought to reduce severe malnutrition
by 50% in seven years in new blocks - an annual decline of just over 7% and an achievable goal.
Given the progress already achieved with TINP I, the other target of 25% severe malnutrition
reduction in existing (ex-TINP I) blocks was also realistic. Importantly though, TINP II placed
particular emphasis on reducing moderate malnutrition (i.e., Grade II weight-for-age), thus
increasing the proportion of children in the combined Normal/Grade I category.
10.   All currently available nutritional status data are presented in the table below. As
expected, there is a strong similarity between the TINP-II (Phase I-III) baseline and the National
Family Health Survey (NFHS) data collected during 1992-93. The Phase IV and V baseline
carried out in 1995 shows a better nutritional situation than either of these latter surveys, implying
appropriate early-targeting of TINP II in its first phases to blocks with high proportions of child
malnutrition. Monitoring data suggest the nutrition situation was improving steadily over time,
with prevalence consistently lower than reported in independent surveys. The one significant
outlier data point comes from the 1996 mid-term evaluation survey which shows particularly high
levels of severe malnutrition, but there are major concerns about the validity of these data. These
doubts have since been confirmed by the terminal evaluation which reports significantly lower
severe malnutrition prevalences, just a year later.



4
Table A: Comparison of 0-36 Month Child Nutritional Status (°/)
Between Various Surveys and Monitoring Data'
Baseline (Phase I-III) survey (1992-93)*  . 41.4    34.9      18.8       4.9
National Family Health Survey (1992-93)   43.8      33.0      19.1       4.1
Baseline (Phase IV and V) survey (1995)   54 6     29 6       13 1       2 8
Monitoring data (December 1995)        1 40 0       39.4      16.8       3 8
Mid-term Survey (April/May 1996)          44 7      26.5      19 0       9.8
Momitorinn data (April 1996)              43 8      40.7      14.3        1.2
Monitorin data (December 1996)            45.4      40.0      13.5        11
Terminal evaluation (October 1997)**           81.8           15.1       3 1
* The age group at 1992-93 baseline and 1997 endline surveys was 6-36 months, which would
be expected to give slightly higher figures than the 0-36 month aggregate.
** The terminal evaluation figures refer to 9 districts for which data was available at the time of
ICR preparation.
11.    Progress towards the impact objectives is best assessed using the interim report of the
terminal evaluation, despite this only having covered nine districts. The full report covering all
districts will only be available after the Implementation Completion Report submission deadline.
Comparing district-wise trends in nutritional status of 6-36 month olds, the terminal evaluation
shows the following:
*  Severe Malnutrition. There has been an aggregate 44% decline in severe
malnutrition since the 1992-93 baseline, i.e., nearly 9% per year. Only two of the nine
districts (Thiruvarur and Nagapattinam) failed to reach the severe malnutrition
reduction objective. Monitoring data suggest significantly lower figures for severe
malnutrition at all data points, and thus a correspondingly greater achievement of a
78% aggregate decline over this period. On balance, the severe malnutrition objective
can be considered to have been achieved.
*  Moderate Malnutrition. The picture regarding moderate malnutrition (i.e. Grade II) is
more complex. On the one hand, the rate of moderate malnutrition reduction has not
been rapid enough to achieve the second impact objective of Normal/Grade I
percentage improvement. In five years, a 23% decline in moderate underweight
prevalence was achieved, with just over a 9% increase in the Normal/Grade I
combined category, i.e., 1.9% per year. More than one child in seven in Tamil Nadu
remains moderately malnourished.
All anthropometric data unless otherwise specified are classified according to the Indian Academy of Paediatrics
(IAP) system which grades children with respect to the percentage deficit in weight, at a given age, from a
reference standard. In the IAP system, "normal" is 80% or above, Grade I is 70-80%, Grade II, 60-70%, Grade III,
50-60% and Grade IV below 50% of the reference median.



5
12.   However, this particular objective seems in retrospect to have been too ambitious, for two
reasons. First, the secular trend in the percentage of 1-5 year-olds in the Normal/Grade I category
comprised a mean annual increase of 2% during the 1980s in Tamil Nadu, according to the
NNMB. The TINP II objective as worded specifies a 5-7% annual rise. Second, given the 1992-
93 baseline percentage of 76.3% in the combined Grade I and Normal category, the second
impact objective is statistically impossible, implying, as it does, greater than 100% in these
categories by project close. This objective had originally been set in 1990 on the basis of the 1989
TINP I terminal evaluation figure of 30% moderate malnutrition, not the 1992-93 baseline figure
of 18.8%. A reasonable, yet challenging objective with hindsight might have been to achieve a
mean prevalence of 90% in the Normal/Grade I category by project close, i.e., a 3.6% annual rise
- thus nearly doubling the 1980s secular trend.
13.   Impact in ex-TINP I districts was significantly better than non-TINP I districts. The best
performing districts in the terminal evaluation were the four ex-TINP I districts which, taken
together, achieved a 17% increase in Normal/Grade I prevalence, i.e., close to the 3.6% target
mentioned above.
14.   Was the project design - increased emphasis on at-home prevention versus center-based
cure - flawed with respect to reducing moderate malnutrition, or was the relative lack of success
due to implementation problems? Clear evidence is lacking, but the weight of the evidence
suggests that implementation problems, especially emphasizing quantity (expansion) over quality,
are the more likely explanation.
15.   Gender. Both the TINP I terminal evaluation (1989) and the 1992-93 NFHS showed
highly significant gender differentials in child nutritional status, with girls faring worse. Five years
later, the TINP II terminal evaluation shows (at least for 9 districts), that this differential no
longer exists. The pooled percentage of children below the 75% of the NCHS weight-for-age
norm was 31% for girls and 38% for boys. Assuming no major gender differentials in mortality
(though data are not yet available on this), it would appear that neglect of the girl child may no
longer be demonstrable by weighing the youngest children.
16.   Location. Villages which were not covered by TINP II at the time of the mid-term survey
in 1996 had significantly higher levels of malnutrition. The two districts with by far the lowest
project coverage were among the districts with the worst child nutritional status, namely
Tiruvannamalai and Dharmapuri. No significant difference was found between the situation in
main villages and in smaller hamlets, which implies that where the project did succeed in reaching
hamlets, it was as effective as in larger villages. In mid-1996, however, a significant proportion of
these hamlets remained unreached.
17.   Low Birth Weight. The situation regarding the ambitious objective of halving low birth
weight incidence is unclear owing to a lack of reliable data. 1992-93 NFHS data provide a figure
of 23% low birth weight incidence in Tamil Nadu, almost identical to the 23.5% figure arrived at
in the 1996 MTS from a limited sample of institutional data. Antenatal care indicators suggest
such an improvement is plausible. Birth weight recording in general is not well carried out and
data are usually both scarce and unreliable. Although it is not possible to judge the degree of



6
improvement, it is clear that low birth weight incidence has declined from its baseline level of
about 30%.
18.  Infant Mortality Rate. The infant mortality rate (IM) reduction target has been achieved.
According to the nationwide Sample Registration System, the IMR for Tamil Nadu in 1996 was
54 per 1000 live births. The marked declines in severe malnutrition suggest that TINP II
contributed significantly to this decline, although absolute attribution is not possible.
19.   Conclusion. In sum, although not all impact objectives have been achieved, there has
clearly been a significant positive impact on severe malnutrition, and on infant mortality.
Moderate malnutrition reduction has not achieved its ambitious objective, although progress has
been made, particularly in ex-TINP I districts. Limited data render it difficult to come to a
conclusion with regard to the low birth weight incidence objective. It appears that the gender gap
in child nutritional status which has existed since the inception of TINP I has narrowed. With
regard to geographical targeting, for the hamlets that were covered, project performance was as
effective as in larger, more accessible villages.
Service Delivery Objectives
20.   Actual coverage. According to MTS data, 84% of the rural population of TINP II
districts are actually covered by the project. Coverage is particularly low in two districts --
Tiruvannamalai (46%) and Dharmapuri (55%). Monitoring data from the TINP project office
make a further differentiation. Within covered areas, there are certain "unreached" populations,
usually residing in small outlying hamlets, which do not have ready access to TINP-II services.
According to the MTS, this "unreached" population varies from 1% in the district of Dindigul to
29% in Periyar district. While progress has been made with the coverage of hitherto inaccessible
hamlets, outreach is still patchy in some districts and needs improvement.
21.   Process objectives. The terminal evaluation provides a mixed picture. On the positive
side, 90% of all pregnant women were registered (target: 80%), 81% of whom before 20 weeks
gestation (target: 50% of all pregnancies). 90% women reported having received at least one
ante-natal check-up, which was a major improvement from the 39% at baseline, and 56% women
had at least four check-ups. Tetanus toxoid immunization coverage reached 99% for at least one
dose and 89% for both doses, surpassing the target of 80%. On the negative side, iron and folic
acid supplement coverage of pregnant women was 71% but only 10% total had received at least
90 tablets as against a target of 60%. Post-partum maternal vitamin A supplementation coverage
was only 14% of attended deliveries, as against a target of 100%. Sustained food supplementation
(i.e., for at least 16 weeks) was 45% for pregnant women (target: 60%) and 30% for lactating
women (target: 90%).
22.   With regard to under-three year-old children, most targets have not been met. Complete
immunization coverage was 88% against a target of 100%. Regular growth monitoring was 69%
(target: 90%), although this figure only refers to the 50% of mothers with growth cards.
Supplementation of eligible children was found to be 58% for 6-36 month-olds (revised target:
95%) and 48% for 36-60 month-olds. 57% of children took longer than 90 days feeding to



7
"graduate" into a higher nutritional grade, while 7% did not graduate. Having graduated, 26%
children relapsed within one year, with a particularly high proportion from the youngest children,
indicating weak counseling.
23.   The terminal evaluation found that 31% of 12-23 month-olds with "any morbidity" were
referred, though this does not permit assessment against the referral objective which was framed
with regard to severely malnourished children. Vitamin A coverage was low, with only 17% of
12-23 month-olds having received the recommended two six-monthly doses (target: 90%), and
29% having received one dose in the last year.
24.   Health service coverage. TINP has a clearly defined organizational structure with a built-
in platform for coordination with the health sector through matching workers at different levels.
In addition to nutrition-related services, the CNC was intended to be the focal point for key health
services such as immunization, ante-natal and post-natal care. The CNW liaised with the Village
Health Nurse (VHN) to organize immunization sessions every Wednesday, ante-natal and post-
natal care services on Mondays and joint home visits every Thursday.
25.   According to the MTS, home visits by the CNW were regularly undertaken, with more
than 85% of mothers on average reporting that either the CNW or Village Health Nurse (VHIN)
visited them following referral. The mixed results on process indicators suggest that inter-personal
communications were not adequate in some areas, which may be related to lack of refresher
training. Joint CNW/VHN visits were occurring frequently in most districts. These findings were
supported by the termninal evaluation. The MTS however reported the existence of problems with
coordination at block level between health and nutrition officials, and irregular participation in
joint review meetings.
26.   Training. The intensive block-level approach to decentralized training of village-based
functionaries has largely been successful. The Communications and Training Center (CTC) has
effectively undertaken training of supervisors and other higher-level workers, although there
remained a heavy backlog of refresher training throughout the duration of the project - which was
related to the fact that expansion of the project into new areas was treated as a higher priority
than quality improvement in existing areas.
27.   Decentralized joint training of health functionaries along with the Community Nutrition
Workers has in recent years given greater emphasis on communications for behavioral change -
particularly with regard to home-based care and feeding practices for children and women,
complementary feeding strategies, early pregnancy registration and ante-natal care. However, this
should have been emphasised right from the start of the project.
28.   Quality remains a problem. The CNWs' own awareness of the different tasks they are
required to undertake was found to be limited in certain districts at the time of the MTS. In
general, most CNWs knew the purpose of weighing and the criteria for selection into
supplementary feeding, although there were significant inter-district variations. Such differences
suggest the need for a modular approach to training to enable appropriate skills and knowledge to
be linked to local problems.



8
29.   Pre-school education. Regular pre-school attendance was found in the terminal evaluation
to be 47% as against a target of 80%. The project also provided orientation training on pre-school
education to Child Welfare Officers (CWOs) and teaching/learning materials to CNCs.
30.   Conclusion. In sum, service delivery was patchy with some of the most important process
objectives not being achieved. Block-level training worked well, though there was a significant
backlog in refresher training which has compromised quality and led to serious gaps in knowledge
and awareness. The existence of significant inter-district variations in some aspects of service
delivery performance suggests the need for a modular, site-specific approach to training.
Communications Objectives
31.   The TINP II communications strategies derived from formative research, the findings of
the baseline survey and a communications needs assessment study conducted in 13 districts by
District Communication Officers. During the early years of TINP II, the emphasis was on state-
wide mass media communications on selected themes. A considerable amount of printed
materials, including a newsletter, was produced, widely disseminated and undoubtedly had a
positive effect on popular awareness of malnutrition and its causes. However, inter-personal
communications and counseling were relatively negected.
32.   The 1996 MTS assessed the degree of maternal knowledge of various aspects of nutrition
as a proxy for the impact of the communications component. Findings were mixed. Most women
were found to be aware of the existence of growth monitoring within TINP II but the majority did
not know that growth monitoring was intended to be carried out monthly. The great majority of
women believed that supplementary feeding of malnourished children was intended either to
improve weight or improve health or both. Maternal knowledge of at least one cause of diarrhea
ranged from 25-93% between districts. In fact, the pronounced inter-district variation was one of
the main findings. This calls for a more decentralized topic-specific, area-focused communications
strategy, not one biased towards mass media campaigns.
33.   The 1997 terminal evaluation showed that communication gaps persist but that some
progress is evident in the last one to two years. 70% of women reported receiving health
education, mostly from the CNW (74%) or VHN (16%), mostly at home. With regard to caring
practices, 90% of mothers initiated breastfeeding within first six hours, but 29% of newborns
were given liquids, mainly sugar water. Only 9% of mothers were found to discard colostrum.
Only 35% 1-2 year-olds were introduced to complementary foods at the recommended time of 5-
6 months, with a further 11% between 3-4 months. A disturbing 29% of such children had not
received any complementary foods by 10 months of age. Among the 7% of mothers not feeding
complementary foods to their 12-23 month-old children, the main reason cited was perceived
breastmilk adequacy (3 8%), and the perception that the child cannot eat solids (17%).
34.   A situation-specific, "mini-campaign" approach to targeted communications was adopted
in the latter part of the project period, focusing on such areas as growth monitoring, on-site
feeding, ante-natal care, micronutrient supplementation, breastfeeding and complementary



9
feeding, and the prevention and management of diarrhea and acute respiratorY infections. In
addition, EEC efforts directed at the community resulted in an increase in the weighing of newborn
babies soon after birth.
35.   Certain innovations, such as special sensitization workshops for newly married couples,
village priests and village barbers, were important contributions. Traditional practitioners of
Siddha, Unani and homeopathic medicine were oriented and involved in supporting lEC.
Participatory planning workshops for NGOs were convened, and traditional media also used for
communicating project messages. On the other hand, there was little attempt to systematically
monitor behavior change, though this is planned for the future. Also there is a need to expand
successful small-scale EEC-related pilot efforts.
36.   The project focused on knowledge dissemination but failed to focus on attitudes and
practices with the same vigor, in contrast to TINP I. Attention was focused on materials
production, and use of techniques such as Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) with communities,
and inter-personal communication skills training for field staff only came late in the project.
37.   Conclusion. The communications component, which was based on sound formative
research, was to some extent limited by its bias towards mass media approaches. More attention is
required on the development of the CNW's inter-personal counseling skills. The geographical
variation, as with service delivery, suggests that strategies should be flexible, decentralized and
problem-focused. This has been recognized by project management in the last two years and the
balance has shifted towards participatory appraisal to reveal communication priorities, and the
development of the CNW's communication skills. Interesting community-based innovations,
taking advantage of localized opportunities, have also been tried out with some success, providing
lessons for wider replication.
Community Mobilization Objectives
38.  In the early years of the project, little attempt was made to mobilize communities and
catalyze a more active form of involvement. Social mobilization really only took off during the
second half of the project when NGOs, opinion-leaders and newly-elected village panchayat
members were oriented towards the goals of the project and motivated to generate further
grassroots support. This led to both cash and kind contributions frompanchayats and repair and
maintenance of CNCs. An estimated $300,000 was raised for IEC and facility maintenance by
community contributions. One example of an innovative approach, funded by panchayats, was a
campaign to improve birth weight recording by providing every mother with a birthday card for
her newbom child.
39.   Special training and orientation sessions were organized for women's working group
members in group dynamics, self-confidence, formation of self-help groups and thrift and credit
activities. 4430 thrift and credit societies were formed and, by project close, savings were
reported to be about $400,000. The terminal evaluation found that 79% of CNC villages had a
women's working group, but participation was somewhat weak. Only 15% of the women
interviewed actually participated in these meetings, and just 3% in the women's self-help groups.



10
75% of villages had adolescent working groups. Sustainable linkages, such as with ongoing
income-generation schemes like Developing Women and Children in Rural Areas (DWCRA),
were not achieved.
40.   Conclusions. After a slow start, community mobilization, and women's group formation
and training in particular, began to pick up in the latter stages of the project, although working
groups need strengthening if real and sustainable community ownership is to be achieved.
Linkages to other government-supported income generation schemes for women are needed.
Opportunities were taken to orient newly-elected panchayat members who themselves became
advocates for the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation Objectives
41.   Monitoring. The monitoring system of TINP II is of a generally high quality design, aimed
at producing timely reports and supportive feedback. Key indicators are tracked regularly and
block-level performance monitored by district-level officers who take responsibility for following
up with blocks which lag on any particular indicator. Data quality is also monitored by regular
inspections of registers maintained at the CNCs, and reliability checks of weight data are
conducted every month by monitoring staff in selected centers.
42.   The system has been streamlined, with the number of CNC registers reduced from fifteen
to seven during the project in order to prioritize the collection of key quality data. These have
been further reduced to four registers which will be used during the forthcoming Woman and
Child Development (WCD) Project.
43.   However, substantial problems are evident. The terminal evaluation found that only 75%
of CNCs had working weighing scales and health cards, and inconsistencies were reported
between CNC-recorded data and the evaluation survey with respect to some service delivery
parameters. In Trichy and Coimbatore districts, the quality of monitoring and growth promotion
activities in 1995-96 was adversely affected in some centers by a 15-month delay in purchasing
2500 weighing scales which were then found to be defective and replaced. Other weak aspects
include the limited community-level monitoring and the poor birth weight recording. Birth weight
is both a prospective marker of the child's nutritional and health status and a retrospective marker
of the mother's nutritional and health status, and should be a pivotal measure of project
performance.
44.   Evaluation. Performance in this area was weak, which is especially disappointing given
the national and international interest in such questions as TINP II's focus on reducing moderate
malnutrition. The reasons are several. First, despite having an expert committee to oversee
evaluation, all surveys were substantially delayed, by over two years in the case of the baseline
and mid-term surveys. Second, the conduct of the surveys and the quality of the analysis left much
to be desired. As a result of these two factors, this report is unable to draw definitive conclusions
regarding project impact, e.g., on moderate malnutrition. Procurement of evaluation work on
HNP projects in India regularly fails to yield high quality survey work. The Bank was remiss in



11
not taking firmer action, when delays and low quality work persisted, to enforce the covenants on
research and evaluation studies.
45.   Conclusion. In sum, the monitoring system remains one of the strengths of TINP II, as it
was with TINP I, The system of tracking key process and outcome data, with built-in data quality
checks and a streamlined set of registers, is efficient and action-oriented. Blocks that are found to
be lagging are followed up by district-level officers, and project management is kept informed of
district-level performance through a wall chart that is updated every month. However there are
some serious gaps in monitoring implementation which need to be addressed. Evaluation has been
weak throughout the project.
Operational Research Objectives
46. Thirteen operational research studies were undertaken during TMNP-II and all but two
were concluded. Several among them were only finished in 1996 and the findings have informed
the forthcoming Woman and Child Development Project in the state. These studies included a
comparison of child stunting in project and non-project areas, a study to correlate severe child
malnutrition with household level food security risk, and a rapid assessment of the effectiveness of
training on birth weight recording. Other studies are detailed in Table 6 of the Appendix. As was
the case with TINP I and ICDS I, the quality and timeliness of the research was generally low. As
mentioned, the mid-tern review, apart from being delayed by two years, was also of a generally
low quality, rendering an assessment of impact impossible.
47.   Conclusion. Unsatisfactory performance on operational research in this and other Bank-
financed nutrition projects in India calls for action in ongoing and future projects. First, more
rigorous pre-qualification of bidders on research and evaluation studies will be needed. Second,
special oversight, e.g., by a national panel of experts should help ensure higher quality and more
timely work.
Physical Targets
48.   18,500 centers were functioning at project close, each staffed by two nutrition workers
and a helper. 483 CNCs were constructed out of a targeted number of 500. None of the
originally planned 4,500 CNCs for in-filling were actually built, despite this figure having been
revised down to 1,400 in late 1996. This seriously constrained project outreach and led to the
patchy results regarding hamlet coverage. The Government of Tamil Nadu says the main reason
the CNCs were not built was the agreement between GOI and the Bank in 1991, and again in
1993, to recycle IDA funds. This resulted in cancelation of exchange rate savings in many
projects, and $30.5 million in the case of TINP II. While the Government of Tamil Nadu did
receive the full rupee amount of the credit, less the amount of $1.8 million canceled for
misprocurement, they were counting on using exchange rate savings for constructing the CNCs,
having over-spent in other budget categories, e.g., incremental operating costs. With the benefit
of hindsight, the Bank should have insisted on the completion of the planned construction. The
project authorities continued to press GOI to reinstate the credit proceeds that were canceled,



12
claiming that there were insufficient resources for the construction. The cancelation clearly
lowered the morale of project officials.
49.   To meet increasing demand for hostel facilities for trainees, a second floor was
constructed in the hostel wing of the Communications and Training Center. Under this project,
Maternal and Child Health Annexes in 9 Primary Health Centers in four districts, and 10
PrimaryHealth Centers were constructed at a cost of Rs. 16 million. A computer center was
installed in the Project Management Unit.
Procurement
50.   There were irregularities in the procurement of drugs and supplementary foods financed
by the project. Bank staff investigated a complaint in March 1995 that a pharmaceutical company
had been prevented from bidding to supply drugs to the project. It was also discovered that the
selected bidder had not met the qualifying criteria. Mis-procurement of drugs was subsequently
declared and US$1.8 million of the credit proceeds were canceled. With respect to procurement
of food, the chosen supplier was blacklisted by the then project coordinator in November 1995
and new supply orders entrusted to alternative suppliers. Food supplies were delayed for several
months, and then found to be sub-standard by an independent laboratory analysis commissioned at
the request of the Bank. The original supplier was reinstated and food supply of acceptable quality
resumed in June 1996 after a total delay of 6 months. The project coordinator who blacklisted the
supplier was subsequently transferred.
51.   There were other irregularities with regard to the procurement of weighing scales, cups,
toys and furniture which were found to be delayed or defective. These problems were rectified
after intervention by Bank staff.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
52.   On the positive side, the use of nutritional status criteria to select children for feeding, as
opposed to only poverty criteria, resulted in better targeting to those children who were most
likely to benefit from extra food. The focus on growth faltering placed an important emphasis on
the prevention of malnutrition as opposed to merely a therapeutic post-hoc strategy. Another
positive factor was the built-in structural coordination between the health system and TINP II at
all levels, with a well-defined system of information flow, management and supervision.
53.   Several factors negatively affected project implementation. One of these was the
exhaustion of project funds in May 1997 related to cancelation of $30.5 million because of
exchange rate savings and US$1.8 million because of misprocurement. This led to refresher
training and communications activities being stalled for approximately five months. Another was
the fact that contrary to recruitment regulations, a significant proportion of CNWs were resident
outside the village they worked in, which compromised community mobilization, communications
and service delivery. There were also problems with the training and supervision of a significant
proportion of Community Welfare Organizers (CWOs) who were promoted to Community
Nutrition Supervisors and then to the block-level position of Community Nutrition Instructress



13
(CNI), despite their not meeting the educational qualifications for the CNI post. Simultaneously,
many of the original TINP I CNIs who were excellent trainers were transferred elsewhere.
54.   Overall, during the mid-project period from 1993-1995, there was a significant fall-off in
commitment, integrity and supervision from project management which percolated down to all
levels, adversely affecting morale and motivation. This fall-off reflected major political turmoil
which affected every sector in Tamil Nadu during the period. These problems were addressed in
1996 by a new project team which successfully set about revitalizing the project. Quality
improvement planning, an open, action-oriented management style and supportive supervision
were all institutionalized to this end.
55.   Given the turbulent environment in which the project operated, it continued to function
reasonably well. This owed much to the solid human resource foundation built by TINP I which
was resilient in the face of deteriorating project management. The terminal evaluation impact
findings provide some support for this supposition in that TINP I districts performed particularly
well, and far better than the Phase V districts introduced in 1995.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
56.   The prospect for sustainability is good and the state is poised to take up the Woman and
Child Development Project (WCD) during 1998, although this is based on a one-worker model,
rather than the two-worker model widely considered to be a major factor in the success of TMNP.
The rate of attrition of the second worker in the existing two-worker model however is low and
most of the second workers will remain for 10 years. The capacity built during TINP II,
particularly human skills and capabilities through training, will certainly benefit WCD, as will the
infrastructure already created.
57.   The Government of Tamil Nadu approached the GOI in mid-1997 to take over the
recurrent costs of TINP II as part of universalization of the ICDS program. The state
government met the recurrent costs of TINP II until they were assumed by GOI from January 1,
1998, and is financing the food costs. GOTN has pledged to sustain the women's groups
established under TINP II and to strengthen linkages with ongoing income-generation programs
in the state.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
58.   Bank performance was mixed. Assistance during preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. But TINP staff complained that they did not receive the extensive technical support
early in TINP II that they had enjoyed under TINP I. Supervision missions were regular and
thorough, and consistently discussed and agreed on ways of overcoming implementation
problems, although these actions often were not taken. But Bank staff could have done more,
perhaps, to restore the balance, when project staff neglected existing project areas relative to
expansion areas, i.e., emphasized quantity over quality. This emphasis may explain in part why the
project did not achieve greater gains against moderate malnutrition.



14
59.   During the first half of the project, Bank staff became aware of irregularities and brought
these to the attention of GOTN at very high level. However, being unable to corroborate the
irregularities, these were not brought out in aides-memoire or supervision reports. Subsequently,
in the second half of the project, Bank staff did report and take action on irregularities, e.g., on
the procurement of drugs, goods, and other items. The greater proactivity in the project's later
stages may also reflect greater emphasis on these matters by Bank management. With the benefit
of hindsight, Bank staff should have acted more forcefully to deal with the poor quality and
timeliness of operational research and evaluation studies.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
60.   Project management under TINP II compares unfavorably with that in TINP I on a
number of counts. Most fundamentally, project staff emphasized expansion (quantity) over
quality, e.g., new areas over "in-filling" of CNCs, refresher training, and IEC in TINP I areas.
This was one of the reasons the project did not do as well as had been hoped in relation to
reducing moderate malnutrition and low birth weight deliveries. A second problem area was
failure to act on problems such as 25% of CNWs living outside their villages, despite this having
been raised repeatedly by supervision missions. Third, project management did not follow the
concept of "management by exception", despite repeated recommendations from supervision
missions, until the last year of the project.
61.   It should be noted that TINP II operated in a far less favorable political environment than
TINP I and project management performance did improve in the final two years of the project.
Nevertheless, TINP II management added much less value than was the case of TINP I, and was
unable to deal with a number of key problems. On balance, the overall performance has to be
rated as unsatisfactory.
62.   The Government of India complied with all of the covenants in the Development Credit
Agreement while the Government of Tamil Nadu complied with all covenants of the Project
Agreement, except the requirement to complete the mid-term review by the end of 1993. The
review finally took place in 1996. The delays in both the baseline and mid-term surveys prevented
project management from making important and timely mid-course corrections.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
63.   The project outcome was satisfactory in that it achieved two of the four major
development objectives and consolidated the gains made by TINP I. However, the key moderate
malnutrition objective was only partly achieved. While this objective appears over-ambitious, in
hindsight, greater gains could have been achieved with stronger project implementation. The
lessons learned from TINP I and TINP II were valuable in the design and preparation of the WCD
project in which Tamil Nadu and four other states will participate.



15
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
64.   Tamil Nadu is one of the five states involved in the forthcoming Woman and Child
Development Project. From January 1998, all the 318 TINP II blocks were incorporated into the
ICDS program, which is to be universalized throughout India. The TINP II blocks are now under
the general ICDS program and the PMU has merged with the ICDS Directorate. In keeping with
this, TINP II blocks will convert from a two-worker to a one-worker model to be in line with
ICDS. The Governmernt of Tarmil Nadu insists that it cannot sustain the cost of two workers, and
GOI ICDS norms preclude it from picking up the cost. In addition, GOTN makes the valid point
that it should be possible to reduce recurrent costs after 18 years of TINP. But that would require
GOI to adopt the selective feeding approach of TINP, which is has never been willing to do, or to
reallocate funds from other nutrition programs to ICDS. Both of these issues are being discussed
in the context of ongoing nutrition sector work.
L     LESSONS LEARNED
65.   TINP I had a marked impact on the prevalence of severe malnutrition in Tamil Nadu
during the 1980s, as borne out by an impact evaluation, and later corroborated by the National
Family Health Survey (NFHS). This success was founded on several factors including selective
feeding, favourable worker-supervisor ratios, clear job descriptions and a well-focused monitoring
system, used to improve project management and implementation.
66.   The NFHS however also showed that levels of moderate malnutrition remained high in
Tamil Nadu. TINP II failed to move beyond reducing severe malnutrition to also make a major
dent in moderate malnutrition. Of its new strategies, only the two relating to health-nutrition
coordination were clear successes. Others made some inroads, but were not implemented as
effectively.
67.   The main lesson learned from TINP II is that the strategies used to combat moderate
malnutrition are broadly appropriate, but that the site of the main action needs to shift from the
center to the home and the quality of implementation overall needs to be significantly improved.
Quality has to take precedence over quantity, consolidation over expansion. As recognized by the
end of TINP I, there remains a need to intensify the focus on localized capacity-building,
community mobilization and targeted, inter-personal communications. While severe malnutrition
can be reduced with center-based therapeutic feeding (providing the child comes to the center),
such a strategy in itself will not sustainably reduce moderate malnutrition. For this to happen, the
emphasis needs to be on improving home-based care and feeding of the 6-24 month-old children
to prevent them from becoming malnourished.
68.   Given the progress made since the inception of TINP I, a thorough re-assessment of the
causes of remaining malnutrition is overdue. How much of the current problem is related to
household food insecurity, how much to health-related factors, and how much to constraints on
adequate caring capacity and practice? Such a study would ensure that the design of the
forthcoming project remains relevant and appropriate.



16
69.   Community ownership should remain a priority, requiring an involvement of more people
in more direct nutrition-improving action, in addition to resource contributions by panchayats.
Community self-monitoring is just one example, whereby a core set of key indicators could be
tracked by community organizations to increase the visibility of progress.
70.   One significant factor behind the generally high-quality training within TINP is the
presence of a block-level officer - the Community Nutrition Instructress (CNI) - who is herself
assisted by Community Nutrition Supervisors (CNS) at a ratio of 1 per 15 CNWs. This ratio
between facilitators and mobilizers has been found to exist in several other successful nutrition
programs worldwide, such as in Thailand. An important lesson learned in TINP II is that the
qualifications for the CNI post cannot be compromised if the quality of training and supervision is
to be maintained.
71.   The TINP II management information system worked relatively well, but evaluation was
poorly implemented. One possible solution to this recurring problem would be to constitute an
evaluation panel, including external expertise, to design terms of references, identify implementing
agencies, monitor field implementation and data analysis and ultimately ensure quality and
timeliness of baselines, mid-term reviews and terminal evaluations. The quality control and data
validation checks of child age and weight estimation procedures, and the methods of training and
supervising field workers in anthropometry in particular, require greater scrutiny in future. The
same panel could be charged with overseeing key operational research.
72.   Other lessons follow. Particular attention needs to be paid to reaching the youngest
children who are at greatest risk. With regard to area-targeting, many remote hamlets, with high
proportions of scheduled caste groups, still need to be reached through the establishment of mini-
CNCs. The phenomenon of lagging districts, particularly in the north of the state, has been known
for some time. The recommendation of supervision missions of joint action-planning with district
staff and block-level problem mapping, is still valid.
73.   In sum, for Tamil Nadu, supportive counselling of caregivers and high-quality service
delivery, allied with a concerted move towards social mobilization and participatory planning
should be the pillars of a future nutrition improvement strategy. Decentralization, quality and
ownership are key overriding concerns. For the most part, these lessons have already been woven
into the project strategies of the forthcoming Woman and Child Development Project in Tamil
Nadu, though they will need to be vigilantly monitored during its actual implementation. One
outstanding issue is whether the one-worker model followed in ICDS, and the forthcoming WCD
project, can achieve results comparable to those of TINP. The international experience suggests
that this is unlikely and that India may need to reconsider the two-worker TINP model. The two-
worker model can be cost-effective and affordable, but only if the TINP selective feeding
approach is also adopted, a politically difficult decision when the predominant approach is to feed
all of the children attending nutrition centers. This key nutrition strategy issue is among the main
areas of focus of ongoing sector work.
74.   Most of these substantive lessons are relevant beyond Tamil Nadu. Nutrition interventions
which are targeted using nutritional criteria, integrated within a broader health system, and



17
effectively supervised and managed can significantly reduce severe malnutrition. TINP has shown
this. It has also shown that to go further and prevent children from becoming moderately
malnourished is in marny ways a harder task and one that requires a significant shift in emphasis.
Nutrition programming in Tamil Nadu is still evolving towards such an approach which stresses
human capacity-building for home-based action, a pro-active integration with the health system,
and the mobilization of communities to sustain the process beyond the project.
75.   For the Bank, the main lesson learned from TINP II is the need for firmer action in dealing
with chronic and persistent problems, such as the failure to carry out the mid-term evaluation
survey in a timely way or the construction of additional nutrition centers in the old blocks of the
project. When delays or persistent problems endanger the achievement of the project's
development objectives, the Bank must be ready to take a firm stand rather than wait in the hope
that agreed actions will be taken.



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
PART H: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
(/)     (//)             (8/~~~~0)         (V)
Macro Policies                      ClE                                                 FX2I
Sector Policies                      a                                El)               El
Financial Objectives                []               C                                  [El
Institutional Development           a               21                 S                El
Physical Objectives                  5                3                                  5
Poverty Reduction                  [x                5                 D 
Gender Issues                        1El S0
Other Social Objectives              a                                5 0
Enviromnental Objectives             5               5                                  IX
Public Sector Management             5x                               El                 S z
Private Sector Development           a                                     oo
Other (specify)                      5               5                5
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       (/) -t(/)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)



19
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
(1)                     (1)                       (1)
Identification                     E]                      Ix                         E]
Preparation Assistance                                     [x                         E]
Appraisal                           Q                                                 Q
Supervision                         5                      [3 
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactor      Deficient
Preparation                                  a                              El
Implementation                               E              E              [3
Covenant Compliance                          E              E                 ]
Operation (if applicable)                    E              I3              E
HIiglly      Marginallv                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv
El)                             El)                El)(



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                    Purpose                    Year of           Status
approvalI
1. First Population     To support the family welfare program in     1972     Credit closed June|
Project CR 312-IN       five districts of Mysore (now Karnataka)               30, 1980l
and six districts of Uttar Pradesh.                   Prjc  omlto
Report (PCR) 6/81;
PAR 1/82
2. Second Population    To support the family welfare program in     1980      Credit closed March
Project                 six districts of Uttar Pradesh and three               31, 1988
districts of Andhra Pradesh
PCR 1/90; PPAR
8/90
3. Tanil Nadu           To improve the nutrition and health status   1980      Credit closed March
Integrated Nutrition    of preschool children and pregnant and                 31, 1989
Project I (TINP I) CR    nursing women
1003-IN
PCR 1/91; Impact
Evaluation Report
12/94
4. Third Population     To support the family welfare program in     1984      Credit closed March
Project CR 1426-IN      six districts of Karnataka and four districts          31, 1992
of Kerala                                                                I
PCR 8/93
5. Fourth Population    To support the family welfare program in     1985     Credit closed March
Project CR 1623-IN      four districts of West Bengal                         31, 1994
PCR 12/94
6. Fifth (Bombay and    To reduce infant, child and maternal         1988     Credit closed March
Madras) Population      morbidity and mortality and to moderate               31, 1996
Project CR 1931-IN      fertility in the cities of Bombay, Madras and             .el
other urban areas of Tarnil Nadu, and to              Implementation    l
assist the Municipal Authorities in                   Completion Report
designing and implementing improved                   10/96
health and family welfare programs.



21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (continued)
7. Sixth (First National   To support the family welfare program in  1989   Credit closed May
Family Welfare Training  the states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh,       31, 1997
and Systems            and Madhya Pradesh
Development) Population
Project CR 2057-IN
8. Integrated Child    To improve the nutrition and health        1990      Credit closed on
Development Services    standards of pre-school children and                December 31, 1997
Project (ICDS I) CR    mothers in tribal, drought-prone and
2173-IN                otherwise disadvantaged areas of Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa
9. Seventh (Training)  To support lower-income women in the       1990      Credit is scheduled
Population Project CR  rural areas of Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana,              to close June 30,
2133-IN                Jannu, Kashmir and Punjab, through the               1998
training of new and existing health workers
and non-Health Department personnel
10. Eighth (Ffamily    To help the Government of India increase   1991      Credit scheduled to
Welfare Urban Slums)    the supply of family welfare services in the        close June 30, 2001
Population Project CR  slum populations of Andhra Pradesh,
2394-IN                Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi
II. Child Survival and    To increase child survival and promote safe  1991  Credit closed on
Safe Motherhood Project  motherhood, including establishing first           September 30, 1996
CR 2300-IN             referral units for secondary-level care of          ICR 3/97
mothers and their newborns
12. Second Integrated  To improve the nutrition and health status  1993     Credit scheduled to
Child Development      of pre-school children and their mothers by          close September 30,
Services Project T (fCDS   strengthening and increasing the outreach of     2000
II) CR 2470-IN         the ICDS program in Bihar and Madya
Pradesh.
13. National AIDS      To support the Government's efforts in     1992     Credit scheduled to
Control Project        controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic with the           close March 31,
CR 2350-IN             objective to slow the spread of HIV in India         1999
so as to reduce future morbidity, mortality
and impact of AIDS
14. Ninth (Family      To support the family welfare program in   1994     Credit scheduled to
Welfare Assam,         the states of Assam, Rajasthan and                  close December 31,
Rajasthan and          Karnataka                                            2001
Karnataka) Population
Project CR 2630-IN
15. Andhra Pradesh First To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation  1994  Credit scheduled to
Referral Health System  and use of health resources through policy          close March 31,
Project CR 2663-IN     and institutional development: and (ii)              2002
improve system performance of health care
through improvements in quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services
at the first referral or secondary level to



22
1                   ~~~~~~~better serve the neediest sections of society.                              1



23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (continued)
16. National Leprosy   To eliminate leprosy as a public health     1994     Credit scheduled to
Elimination Project     problem in India by the turn of the century          close March 31,
CR 2528-IN             and to reduce the impact of leprosy                   2000
disability
17. Cataract Blindness    To upgrade the quality of cataract surgery,  1994  Credit scheduled to
Control Project         expand services to underprivileged sectors           close June 30, 2001
CR 261 -IN              and reduce the backlog of cataract
18. Second State Health   To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation  1997  Credit scheduled to
Systems Development     and use of health resources through policy           close March 31,
Project CR 2833-IN      and institutional development; and (ii)              2002
improve performance of the health care
system through improvements in the quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services
at the first referral level and selective
coverage at the primary level to better serve
the neediest sections of society.
19. TB Control Project    To reduce mortality, morbidity and       1997     Credit scheduled to
CR 2936-IN              disability due to TB and to reduce the               close December 31,
incidence of infectious TB by focusing on           2002
the cure of infectious patients
20. Malaria Control     To reduce death, morbidity and social and  1997      Credit scheduled to
Project CR 2964-IN      economic losses from malaria through and             close March 31,
improved malaria control program                    2003
including: (i) using a better mix of effective
malaria control interventions responsible to
local needs; and (ii) strengthening the
Directorate of the National Malaria Program
(NMP) and modifying its orientation
21. Reproductive Health   To improve quality, coverage and         1997     Credit scheduled to
Project CR NOI 80-IN   effectiveness of existing Family Welfare             close March 31,
(FW) services and expand their scope to             2003
include more elements of a defined package
of reproductive and child health (RCH)
services
22. Rural Women's       To strengthen processes that promote the   1997     Credit scheduled to
Development Project     economic development of women and create            close June 30, 2002
CR 2942-IN              an environment for social change, including
improving access to better health care



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                              Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            April 26, 1988
Preparation                                           November 1, 1989
Appraisal                                             January 12, 1990
Negotiations                                          May 4, 1990
Board Presentation                                    June 14, 1990
Signing                                               September 14, 1990
Effectiveness                                         December 5, 1990
Midterm review (if applicable)                        October 29, 1996
Loan Closing                                          December31, 1997



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN-)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal Estimate           4.00   6.00    15.30  31.40  57.40  77.90  93.20   95.80
Formally Revised *                                         36.93  51.90  63.90  65.82
Actual                       6.24   8.48   14.73  25.70  41.73  53.58  69.39  72.80
Actual as %ofEstimate        156    141    96       82     113    103    108    111
Date of Final Disbursement           January 28, 1998
* Credit in the amount of USS32.3 equivalent was canceled.



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated      Actual
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAP] President's Report            (staret   (9tal
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(SAR target)  (1997 stattus)
Impact Indicators
I. Reduce severe malnutrition (Grade III and IV) among children 6-36 months in        Mean 44%
new and existing project areas
New 50%       New 21%
Old 25%       Old 56%
II. Increase in proportion of children 6-36 months in normal and Grade I               Mean 9%
nutrition status in new project and existing project areas
New 50%       New 3%
Old 35%       Old 17%
III. (a) Reduction in infant mortality rate                               55/1000      54/1000*
(b) Reduction in incidence of low birth weight by                       50%           23%
Process Indicators
1. Early registration of pregnant women                                    50%           73%
2. Total registration of pregnant women                                    80%           90%
3. Tetanus toxoid immunization of pregnant women                           80%           89%
4. Consumption of iron and folic acid tablets for at least 12 weeks by pregnant  60%     10%
women.
5. Administration of post-partum vitamin A to attended deliveries         100%           14%
6. Food supplementation for at least 16 weeks to registered pregnant women with  60%     45%
inadequate nutrition status
7. Food supplementation of at least 16 weeks of registered lactating women with  90%     30%
malnutrition in pregnancy
8. Immunization (UIP-6) of children                                       100%           88%
9. Vitamin A megadose (100,000-200,000 i.u.) semi-annually to children 6-36  90%         46%
months
10. Regular growth monitoring (>9 times a year) of children 0-3 years      90%           69%
11. Supplementation of monitored children 6-36 months with Grade II to IV  100%          58%
malnutrition
12. Pre-school attendance (>80 percent working days)                       70%           47%
13. Household use of oral rehydration in the last incidence of diarrhea    60%           82%
14. Additional complementary foods introduced by 6 months of age           50%           35%
15. Active women's working groups (>9 meetings a year)                     80%           79%
* 1996 Sample Registration System ( SRS)



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                 at Appraisal/Redefined         Status        Impact of Study
1. Base line survey for TINP II  To collect base line survey data    Completed  Used to measure project
(Phase I to III districts).  in the project area.                       achievements.
2. Base Line Survey for TINP           -- do --           Completed             -- do --
II (Phase IV and V districts).
3. Mid-term review and      While reviewing all project   Completed     Provided nutritional
Evaluation of TINP II (Phase 1  activities, special attention would  and  status of 6-36 months
to III districts).          be paid to:                   reanalyzed by  age group and status of
a) the new supplementation    Bank          all project activities,
approaches being adopted under   consultant  guided follow-up
the Project;                                measures to reduce
b) the revised referral procedures          severe malnutrition.
and the Maternal and Child
Health annex system being tested
in Madurai district and;
c) the new arrangements for
health/nutrition coordination
4. Social assessment study for   To identify the different social    Completed  Study identified
improving health and        and economic groups in the                  immediate needs of the
nutritional status in Tamil  project areas and describe their           communities, and
Nadu                        numbers, distribution and                   recommended broader
relevant characteristics for the           issues of strategy and
proposed Woman and Child                    program orientation.
Development (WCD) project..                 Main recommendations
utilized for WCD project.
5. Study of child stunting in  To measure the prevalence of  Completed  Study helped develop
program and non-program     stunting (height for age) in 10             IEC strategy for
project areas.              project districts and compare               promoting colostrum
with non-project areas.                     feeding and safe birth
intervals.
6. Formative research and   Aid in the design and conception   Completed  Findings used in mid-
strategy design for         of materials and pre-testing for            course corrections and to
communication component.    fine-tuning of the materials.               modify existing EEC
strategies and develop
new strategies for
proposed WCD project.
7. Condition report on bar  To assess the working condition   Completed  Findings used in
scales by monitoring wing,  of bar-scales in different districts.       assessing scale
TINP.                                                                   requirements.



28
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Purpose as Defined
Study                  at Appraisal/Redefined      Status           Impact of Study
8. Rapid assessment survey on    To assess the effectiveness of  Completed  Periodic training of
the effectiveness of training on    birth-weight recording before         CNW's improved their
birth weight recording.      training and after training of               skill and attitude.
CNWs.
9. Study on severely          To assess the percentage of   Completed     Study enabled the project
malnourished children in      severely malnourished children              to better combat
selected CNCs to observe if they  0-36 months in at-risk families.        malnutrition.
belong to at-risk families and
correlation to income and
literacy.
10. Survey to assess          To identify the most effective  Completed   Study showed that
effectiveness of functioning of    model for service delivery             resident worker and two-
one-worker model vs. two-                                                 worker model work
worker model and resident vs.                                             better.
non-resident worker model.
11. Study on the extent of   To find out the reason for low  Completed    No significant difference
migration of ante-natal/post-    registration of ante-natal               between actual number of
natal mothers, by monitoring  mothers; wheather it is due to              ante-natal women and
wing, TINP.                   mothers migrating at time of                number registered.
delivery..                                  Migration was only 7%.
12. Study on the effectiveness of  To find out effectiveness of  Ongoing
Laddu vs. Payasam to children   supplementation in the form of
of 7 - 12 months             Laddu or Payasam'.
13. Terminal Evaluation of   To assess achievements and      Ongoing
TINP II and base line survey for  impact of TINP on nutritional
WCD.                          status of children.
Laddu is a solid sweet snack for older children and Payasam is a semi-solid gruel for younger children.



29
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign        Total       Local        Foreign        Total*
Item                 Costs        Costs                    Costs         Costs
Service Delivery
1. Nutrition               89.08         1.93       91.09             -              -       103.29
2. Health                  26.05         4.07       30.12              -              -        9.07
3. Training                 6.28         0.33        6.61             -              -          NA
Communications              3.25         0.28        3.53             -               -        3.93
Project Management
1. Project                  4.95         0.04        4.99             -              -         5.39
Coordination Office
2. Communication/           1.01         0.06        1.07             -              -          NA
Training Center
3. Monitoring and           1.33         0.05        1.38             -              -         1.74
Evaluation
Total Base Costs          131.95         6.76      138.71             -              -          NA
Contingencies                                        0.38             -              -          NA
Total Project Costs                               139.09*                                    139.54
* GOI maintains records only in Rupees; a blended rate of Rs.3 1 per US$ was used to convert actual GOI financing into US$
** including taxes and duties of US$5.0 million



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)              ActualLLatest Estimate(US$M)
Local        Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total
Source         Costs         Costs                       Costs         Costs
IDA                    87.4           8.4         95.8             -            -       96.28
GOTN                  43.3            0.0         43.3             -            -       43.26
Total                 130.7           8.4        139.1                                 139.54



31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised        Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment      covenant
date       date
CREDll    3.01(a)  03,04,05  c                               The Borrower to cause    Provided.
the Project State to
perform its obligations
under the Project
Agreement and provide
resources as necessary.
3.01(b)  03       c                              The Borrower to make     Made available.
the Credit proceeds
available to the Project
State.
3.02     05       c                              Procurement to be       Governed by the
governed by the         provisions of the
provisions of Schedule I    project agreement.
to the Project Agreement.
3.03     10       c                              The Borrower to cause   Carried out.
the Project State to carry
out obligations relating to
insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and
schedules, records and
reports, maintenance, and
land aquisition.
4.01(a)  01       c                              For all SOE expenditures,  Maintained.
the Borrower: (i) to
maintain adequate
records and accounts; (ii)
to retain all records
evidencing such
expenditures at least one
year after IDA has
received the audit report;
and (iii) to enable IDA
representatives to
examine such records.
4.01(b)  01       c                              The Borrower: (i) to have   The financial records
financial records and   and accounts have
accounts audited; (ii) to    been audited by
furnish to IDA an audit    Accountant General,
report; and (iii) to furnish   Chennai.
to IDA other reasonable
information concerning
financial records and
accounts.



32
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement  Section  Covenan   Present   Original    Revised   Description of               Conmments
t type    status   fulfillmen  fulfillment  covenant
t date      date
PROJEC    2.01(a)   05, 10       c                            The Project State to     Being carried out.
carry out the Project
with due dilligence and
efficiency and in
conformity with
appropriate practices,
and
2.01(a)    04         c                            Provide promptly the    Provided.
resources required for
the project.
2.01(b)    05         c                            The Project State to    Implemented as
carry out the Project in    per the agreed
accordance with the     terms.
agreed Implementation
in Schedule 2 to the
P.A.
2.02      05         c                            Project State to procure    Procurements are
goods, works, and       as per the project
services in accordance  agreements.
with Schedule I to the
P.A.
2.03      10        c                            Project State to carry out  Being carried out.
obligations relating to
insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and
schedules, records and
reports, maintenance,
and land acquisition.
2.04(a)    09         c                            Project State to       Being done.
exchange views with
IDA with regard to
Project Progress.
2.04(b)    09         c                            Project State to promptly  Shortage of funds
inforn IDA of any      for software
condition interfering  activities - issue
with Project progress.   resolved - activities
ongoing.



33
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present  Original   Revised      Description of          Comments
type     status  fulfillment fulfillment   covenant
date      date
Sch. 2-    12        c    01/01/199            Project State to adopt and Children showing growth
1(a)                         I               apply mutually agreed    faltering, i.e., growth
beneficiary selection  line moving upper
criteria and methodology, tranjectory in case of
for provision of      normal and Grade I and
therapeutic supplements  all children falling under
to children under 36  Grade II, m and IV are
months of age, and    given supplementation
preganant and lactating   for a period of 90 days
women, and            initially. Pregnant
women are also given
feeding on selective
basis from sixth month
of pregnancy following
selection criteria and it is
continued for six months
after delivery. Children
in Grade m and IV are
given therapeutic
feeding.
Sch. 2-  12        c      01/01/199            Project State to introduce Therapeutic food
l(b)                       I                   and maintain provision of supplementation hs been
theraputic nutrition  introduced as per
supplements which have  composition approved by
a composition satisfactory the Bank.
to IDA.
Sch. 2-2 12       c        01/01/199           Project State to introduce In all districts
I                   and thereafter maintain   health/nutrition
mutually agreed       coordination has been
arrangements for      strengthened. Joint
coordination between  Director Health Services
health and nutrition  is designated as District
services.             project Coordinator and
Deputy Director Health
Services are designated
as District Programme
Officers. Regular
monthly reviews are
conducted at district
levels. At sector level,
Medical Officers Primary
Health Centers conduct
joint review meetings on
the second Tuesday of
every month for
health/nutrition workers
and the supervisory staff.



34
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present  Original   Revised        Description of          Comments
type     status  fulfillment fulfillment     covenant
date      date
Sch. 2-3 10        c       09/30/199             Project State to undertake Report on MCH
l  I                 and complete operations  utilization study has
research on the efficacy   been furnished to the
of different approaches to World Bank after
strengthening obstetrical discussions with the
and child nutritional risk  Health Department.
management at referral
facilities in accordance
with mutually agreed
terms of reference and
criteria.
Sch. 24 09         c                             Project State prior to  Operations Research
undertaking innovative   activities and other
studies, operations    studies were carried out
research, and activities to as per Bank's guidelines.
(a) furnish terms of
reference, work plans,
and proposed budgets
satisfactory to IDA, and
(b) discuss the results of
innovative studies,
operations research, and
activities with IDA.
Sch. 2-5 09        c                             Project State to furnish to Quarterly progress report
IDA, for review and   for the quarter ending
discussion, in satisfactory September 30, 1997, has
formats: a) quarterly and  been sent to the World
annual progress reports   Bank.
within three months of
the relevant
implementation period,
and
Sch. 2-5    10        c     01101/94            (b) prospective annual   The Annual Plan of
work plans.            Action and Procurement
Plan are sent regularly to
the World Bank.
Sch. 2-6     10      cd                          The Project State in   The base-line surveys for
consultation with the IDA Phase IV and V districts
and in accordance with   of TINP II was entrusted
terms of reference and   to M/s. Mode Research
methodology satisfactory  (P) Ltd. The final
to IDA, to undertake and  reports have been
complete: (a) collection  received and given to all
of base-line survey(BLS) component managers.
data for each health unit
district in the Project
Area prior to the
commencement of project
service delivery and
communications
activities in that health
district.



35
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised              Description of             Comments
type      status   fulfillment  fulfillment        covenant
date        date
Sch. 2-6      09         cd    12/31193                  (b) a mid-term review     The mid-term evaluation
and evalutation of the    survey in Phase I, II and
Project, and             m districts was carried
out by M/s Research and
Development Council.
The study was discussed
in a workshop organized
on October 29-30, 1996
and the re-analysis of
certain portions of the
report was carried out
by Mr. Stuart Gillespie
(international Bank
consultant) and Mr.
Nadumuni Naidu
(National Institute of
Nutrition). The final
report "Review of
Progress to Mid-term"
was completed in May
1997.
Sch. 2-6      09       NYD   09130/97                    (c) a final review and    TORs were agreed upon
evaluation of the Project. by the expert committee
and the Bank and
communicated to the
National Institute of
Nutrition (NW). The
field surveys have been
completed and the data
is being compiled by
NIN. The final report
would be available in
early 1998.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial perfonnance/revenue generation from     9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects ofthe project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                  action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8.   Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  compliedwithpartially
NC = not complied with



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements (OMS)
The ICR did not identify any deviation of substance from the relevant OMS.



37
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs in Staff Weeks
Stage of                                                                                  Total
Project Cycle
86   87   88   89    90    91   92   93    94    95    96    97   98*
Lending        0.1  0.2  2.0                                                                   2.3
Development
Preappraisal   _          7.9  66.2  58.7                                                    132.8
Appraisal                            28.9         =    =           _  X  =         X          28.9
Negotiations    =    =                4.2   _                                                  4.2
Supervision                                11.0  2.3  31.6  25.4  16.2  23.3  31.3  21.3  141.1
Procurement    =    =    =_=_1.1   0.5   0.9  __2.5
Completion                                      XT T __                                11.3  _
Total          0.1  0.2  9.9  66.2  91.8  11.0  2.3  31.6  26.5  16.7  24.2  31.3  32.6  344.4
* as of April 21, 1998



38
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT (Cr. 2158-IN)
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Peforace Rating-
Number        Total        Specialized     Implemen-    Develop-ment
Stage of         MontW          of         Days in        Staff Skills     tation        Objectives      Types of
Project Cycle       Year        Persons       Field        Represented-       Status                      Problems-1
Through Appraisal       Nov/ Dec        6           52         C, F, H, M, N,        _              -              _
89                                      TM
Appraisal through       Jan/ Feb        7           35        A, C, H, M, ME,       _               _              _
Board Approval             91                                       TM
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision I           June 1991       3           19           H, N, TM            2              1
Supervision 2           Oct 1992        5           10          C, H, N, TM          2              1
Supervision 3          April 1993       4            9         N, O, PH, TM          2              1
Supervision 4           Nov 93         4            10          C, H, N, TM          2              1
Supervision 5           January        4                       C, PH, N, TM          2              1
1994
Supervision 6          April 1994      4            5          C, ME, N, TM          2              1
Supervision 7          November        6                       C, M, N, PH,          S             HS
1994                                    TM, W
Supervision 8            March         3            7            C, M, PH            S             HS
1995
Supervision 9          November        5            4          C, F, M, PH          S              HS
1995
Supervision 10         June 1996       3                           F, M             S              HS
Mid-term review 11      October        6            32         F, M, N, TM          S               S             M, S
1996
Supervision 12         May 1997         5           25         F, M, N, TM           S              S              AF
Implementation         November        4            2             F, H, N           _               _
Completion Report 13      1997
/1 A=Architect, C=Communications, F=Finance, H=Health, M=Management, ME=Monitoring & Evaluation N=
Nutrition, O=Operations, PH= Public Health, TM=Task Manager, W=Women in Development
/2 l=No Significant Prolems, 2=Moderate Problems (i.e., there are significant, but not critical problems from
appraisal expectations), HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory.
/3 AF=Availability of funds, M=Project Management, S=Studies Progress



Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
NOVEMBER 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank implementation completion mission visited Chennai from November 24 to
25, 1997. The field tearn consisted of Mr. R. Sethuraman (Finance Specialist), Ms. Meera
Priyadarshi (Nutrition Specialist), Dr. Stuart Gillespie (Consultant) and Mr. P. Subramaniyam
(Consultant and Team Leader). Mr. A.K. Nanda from the DWCD of the Government of India
accompanied the mission. This aide-memoire sets out the main findings of the mission.
2.     The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the State of Tamil Nadu for their full
cooperation, work facilitation and hospitality. The mission had detailed discussions with the
Project Coordinator of TINP and his staff members in Chennai. The mission also visited the
Communication and Training Centre (CTC). Wrap-up meeting was chaired by the Secretary,
Social Welfare Department, Government of Tamil Nadu.
Mission Objectives and Overall Progress
3.    The objectives of the mission were to undertake a final review of progress before the close
of the project on December 31, 1997 and to:
(a)   provide advice and support to the Borrower in the preparation of its
contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR); and
(b)   record the views of the Borrower and the Bank on project
implemenitation
4.    Overall progress in the implementation of the project since the last review mission was
judged as good. The performance against key indicators appears to be good with the two
malnutrition reduction objectives achieved as per monitoring data, although this needs
confirmation by the endline evaluation. The prospect for project sustainability is good and the
state is poised for taking up the proposed WCD project. The gains already achieved under IEC
and training are being consolidated and fine tuned to effectively address the remaining problem
areas. However, in order to make an assessment of the impact of the project against its objectives
there is need to await the findings of the endline evaluation currently being analysed. Details of
status of service delivery, health nutrition coordination etc., are in Annex 1.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
5.    The State has spent Rs. 88.35 crores more than the approved outlay of Rs. 321.34 crores
(actual expenditure as on October, 1997 was Rs. 409.69 crores). For implementation of project
activities till the close of project, the project authorities have estimated an additional requirement
of Rs. 16.00 crores. In the circumstances, the balance credit will get fully disbursed before
November, 1997 once all the pending claims are fully filed and adjusted. The only item of civil
works pending is the construction of an additional floor in the CTC. Work orders for this have
already been placed and the work has already been started. Details of the financial status are in
Annex 2.
Project Issues
6.    Continued Implementation of IEC. Training. MIS etc. The project authoritiesagreed to
the continued implementation of all software components under the project likejIEC, training,
MIS etc till the close of the project regardless of whether IDA credit is available or not. Further
continuance of the activities beyond that date will be covered by the proposed retro-active
financing, which can be availed of for eligible expenses back to July, 1997.
7.    Weighing Scales. The issue relating to the supply of weighing scales was discussed with
the project authorities and the Secretary. The State prefers to continue with bar scales in view of
their precision. However the state authorities admitted the need for better training to the workers
in the proper use of weighing scales.
Implementation Completion Review
8.    Mission reviewed and commented on the draft contributions to the ICR from the project
authorities. The draft is found to be very useful; however, it needs abridgement and editing.
Further, it would be useful to incorporate in the write-up the main findings of the endline
evaluation which will be available by December, 1997. The State has promised to prepare the
write-up in about 10 pages and send it to Bank through GOI in December, 1997.
9.    Mission held detailed discussions with the project staff and other experts regarding the
outcome of the project and the factors considered responsible for success or failure. The present
assessments will be finetuned after the availability of the endline evaluation findings expected by
December, 1997. Dr. Stuart Gillespie will be responsible for drafting the Bank's contribution to
the ICR, with the assistance of the other members of the mission, and will make it available to the
NDO in January, 1998 for review and comments. A first draft of the Bank's contibution will be
made available in February, 1998 to the Government of India and the state Government of
Tamilnadu for their views and comments, and after finalization will be submitted to the Bank
headquarters by March 31, 1998.
Key Factors affecting Project Implementation and Impact
10.   The specific nutrition and health impact objectives of the project are:



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
(a) reduce severe malnutrition (grade III and IV) among children 6-36 months by 50%
and 25% in new and existing project areas, respectively;
(b)  increase the proportion of children 6-36 months of age in normal and   grade I
nutrition status by 50% and 35% in new and existing project areas, respectively, and
(c)  contribute towards a reduction in IMR from around 84 to 55 per 1,000 live births
and to a 50% reduction in the incidence of low birth weight from levels at the start
of the project
11.   Project Impact. In order to assess progress of project with respect to its above mentioned
impact objectives, it will be necessary to wait for the findings of the endline survey which has
recently been completed and is currently being analysed. Monitoring data suggest that the two
malnutrition reduction objectives have been achieved. Regarding the ambitious objective of
halving low birth weight incidence, the situation is unclear owing to a lack of reliable data. The
infant mortality rate reduction target has been achieved, although it is impossible to assess the
specific contribution of the project.
12.   Service Deliveiy. Project monitoring data for October 1997 point to high levels of service
delivery coverage and the achievement of many of the process objective targets. 60% of pregnant
women are registered before 16 weeks, all of whom were assessed for obstetrical and nutritional
risk. Tetanus toxoid immunisation coverage has achieved its target of 80% unlike iron and folic
acid supplement coverage which is at 53%. Sustained food supplementation to pregnant and
nursing women is virtually universal, according to monitoring data.
13.   With regard to children, most targets have been, or are close to being, met. Complete
immunization is at 96%, regular growth monitoring at 94% and supplementation of those eligible,
at 99%. Referrals of severely malnourished or non-responding children is 94%. Only vitamin A
appears to be lagging at 53% although this may be at least partially due to the fact that VHN also
provides supplements.
14.  IEC and Training. IEC appears to have been quite effective not only in reducing
moderate malnutrition but also in addressing other issues like early registration of pregnant
women, immunization, growth monitoring and intra-family feeding practices. IEC has also been
succesful in certain innovative areas like special sensitization workshops for newly married
couples, village priests and village barbers. A lot of printed materials including a newsletter have
been produced and widely disseminated. Traditional media are effectively being used for
communicating project messages. IEC has been particularly successful in community mobilization
like for instance weighing of newborns. However, measurment of behavioural change has not
been systematically done. This is something which the project proposes to do in future. As for
training, the intensive block-level decentralized training has been successful in imparting
qualitative training to the functionaries. The CTC has been implementing training for Supervisors
and functionaries above that level. However, there is still a heavy backlog of refresher training.
This has to be focussed upon in the coming months. The project has plans to do this. Training will
also have to focus on q[uality improvement, particularly on the correct and proper use of the bar



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
weighing scale.
15.   Women 's Empowerment. Training in aspects like group dynamics, thrift etc, has been
imparted to women's working group members in some blocks. However, these have been mainly
NGO initiatives.
16.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The monitoring system of TINP II is of generally high
quality, producing timely reports and supportive feedback. Key indicators are tracked regularly
and block-level performance monitored. District-level officers take responsibility for following up
with blocks which lag with respect to an indicator. TINP II has an expert committee on
monitoring and evaluation which oversees the evaluative process, preparing terms of reference
and reviewing draft reports. Unfortunately, however, the delayed mid-term review, finally carried
out in 1996, was not of a high quality. A re-analysis of existing data was undertaken when doubts
were expressed about the quality of the anthropometric data. The final endline survey should
clarify the picture.
17.   Operational Research. Seven operational research studies have been undertaken during
TRNP II's life span and all but one have been concluded. Several among them were only
concluded in 1996.The quality of studies carried out by external agencies have not been upto the
mark; in contrast, the in-house studies conducted by the PMU have been useful in focussing
attention on problem areas. It is hoped that the relevant and useful findings will be used to
improve implementation of the forthcoming Women and Child Development Project in the State.
These studies included a comparison of child stunting in project and non-project areas, a study to
correlate severe child malnutrition with household level food security risk and a rapid assessment
of the effectiveness of training on birth weight recording among others.
18.   Targeting. While commendable efforts have been taken by the project for targeting the
under threes and those that are malnourished, the problem of reaching the hamlets and the
unreached like tribals has remained elusive. The project authorities propose to address these
issues in the forthcoming WCD project.
19.   Capacitv Building. The project has been quite successful in capacity building in terms of
planning and managing components like IEC, training and MIS. The decentralized block level
training and the technical backstopping proided by CTC for
needs assessment serve a models for other States to study. The project will sustain these gains in
the coming years.
20.   Infrastructural Base. The project has successfully expanded the infrastructural base at the
field level. These will be sustained in the future years. Further fine-tuning of the service delivery
system with focus on pre-school early childood education, programs for women's empowerment
and adolescent girls is sure to result in the State's reaching higher levels of nutrition and health
particularly for women and chidren.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
21.   Comments on the performance of the Bank will be included in the draft ICR. The project
authorities generally felt that the Bank review missions were useful in supporting areas like
internalizing the mechanics of training needs assessment, more focussed use of traditional media
for communiction and PMU-undertaken operational research on several issues of importance to
the project.
22.   The experience gained in this project has informed the preparation process of the
forthcoming WCD project for the State.
23.   Conclusions
*   Delays in completion of operational research studies should be avoided in future; and
better criteria for selection of suitable agencies should be developed and adopted for
future studies
*   Monitoring data indicate the achievement of the two malnutrition reduction
objectives. As for halving low birth weight incidence, the situation is not clear due
mainly to lack of reliable data. The endline survey should clarify the picture.
However, in mission's judgement, the development objectives of the project are
most likely to be achieved
*   The project is judged as sustainable. The infrastructure created under the project will
be sustained. Eventhough the State has opted for the one-worker model from the
present two-worker model, the rate of attrition of the second worker is so low that
most of the workers will be there for another at least 10 years or so. The gains in
capacity building like planning and management skills acquired under the project for
componets like IEC, Training and MIS will be sustained. Similarly, the nutrition
inputs will also be sustained.
Next Steps
24.   The timely completion of the endline evaluation has to be pursued and ensured by the
State. The State should also finalize its contribution to ICR on the lines discussed. The mission,
on its part, will prepare and present its ICR contribution for review and comment by GOI, the
project authorities, the State Government and Bank management as per the time schedule
indicated earlier in this aide-memoire.
25.   The mission appreciates the efforts taken by the project authorities for consolidating the
gains achieved by the project and for sustaining them.
New Delhi
December 3, 1997



Appendix B
Page 1 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2158-IN)
Government of Tamil Nadu
Borrower's Evaluation
Introduction
1.    The Second Tramil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project was launched in 1991 covering
initially 11 blocks and later expanded to 318 blocks in five phases spread over 24 districts by the
close of the project in December 1997.
2.    The main services for providing health and nutrition care for 0-72 months and pregnant
and nursing mothers were (i) supplementary feeding for 6-36 months and mothers on selection
criteria; (ii) education on nutrition and health; (iii) immunization and micronutrients
supplementation; and (iv) medical referral services.
Nutrition Intervention and Impact
3.    The project was providing therapeutic supplementary food containing a minimum of 14g
of protein per 100gm till June 1996. Later on, the Project switched over to IS-7021-1973
specifications which contained 15gms. of Protein per lOOgms. of food. For the severely
malnourished, a special supplementary food containing milk proteins and malted ragi was
supplied. This food was supplied as a nutritional therapy in the mornings preferably as the first
food for the malnourished children at the Community Nutrition Centres (CNCs). Though, the
practice of feeding the children at the centre itself suffered a set back for a couple of years in the
middle of the project, it was brought back with some difficulty. This was not only to avoid
sharing of the food in the families, but also to provide the opportunity to mothers to learn caring
practices and share experiences with one another. Special training sessions were undertaken to
field functionaries at all levels to bring about an attitudinal change. The CNCs were made to
realize that they were not merely service providers but have the responsibility to play the role of
"foster-mothers" for the severely malnourished children.
4.    The quality of food procured and the regularity of supply ran into difficulty during 1994-
95 and 1995-96. This was also later sorted out and the food were being supplied directly to the
CNCs at the appointed time. Samples of food were taken from CNCs and sent to CFTRI,
Mysore for tests and the quality of food supplied was ensured. From January 20, 1991 to
December 31, 1997, 67,861.955 metric ton (MT) of weaning food was supplied at a cost of
Rs.95.37 crores including the transportation charges. Similarly, 2993.042 MT of special
supplementary food was supplied at a cost of Rs.5.84 crores including transportation charges. The
Community Nutrition Workers (CNWs) were trained to feed the severely malnourished children



Appendix B
Page 2 of 12
and other young malnourished infants with supplementary food made into "Payasam" (sweet
porridge). The change in the attitude of the functionaries and their approach to the severely
malnourished children as "foster-mothers" had resulted in the CNWs and the mothers spending
more time with the severely malnourished children for feeding them. The workers and supervisors
started accompanying the parents to hospitals for medical intervention for the severely
malnourished. When the functionaries saw with their own eyes the improvements in the health
and nutrition status of these children, they started sending photographs of these children with
their success stories to the Project Coordination Office (PCO). The study taken up comparing the
effectiveness of "Payasam" versus "Ladoos" (food flour mixed with hot water and made to sizes
of 50 gms. balls) confirmed that "Payasam" was more effective as young infants and severely
malnourished consumed this without wastage. Letters of appreciation and advice were also sent
from the PCO to these workers. This gesture kept up the tempo and encouraged the staff. Over a
period of one and a half year, the levels of severely malnourished children were brought down
considerably even in the districts like Thiruvannamalai and Villupuram which did not fare well in
the Mid-Term Evaluation as seen in the Terminal Evaluation Report.
Percent Distribution of Children Severely Malnourished (Weight for Age) by IAP
Classification
Table 1
District          Mid-Term Grade HI & IV        Terminal (0-36
(6-36 months)              months)
Villupuram                           16.1                      6.0
Tiruvannamalai                       17.4                     3.3
Salem                                12.6                     2.9
Dindigul                             11.2                     3.5
5.    IEC support through mass media, group meetings and inter-personal communications on
complementary feeds, the number of times a day a young child is to be fed and other tips on
caring practices during fever, common cold, diarrhoea, etc., has contributed to reduce the number
of episodes of relapses. A comparison of the status during the Mid Term Evaluation and
Terminal Evaluation with regard to moderate malnutrition in some districts is given below:
Percent Distribution of children Moderately Malnourished (Weight for Age) by IAP
Classification
Table 2
Districts           Mid Term Grade II         Terminal Grade II
(6-36 months)           (0-36 months)
Madurai                            20.5                      15.7
Dindigul                           20.5                      13.9
Salem                              22.4                     14.4
Tiruvannamalai                     24.0                      13.3
Dharmapuri                         21.1                      10.9



Appendix B
Page 3 of 12
6.    The growth performance of children  born in January 1995 and -A.vho completed  36
months in the programme without any interruption like drop-out, death, migration, etc., in six
districts viz., Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Erode, Madurai, Tirunelveli, an-d Toothukudi were
studied retrospectively. In January 1995, the project was implemented only in 16 districts. Phase
V of TINP-II in Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Kanyakumari districts came into existence in July
1, 1995 only. A total of 6968 children were studied. Out of those, 1656 children entered the
programme as Grade I malnutrition in January 1995. When they left the programme in December
1997, 50.79% of them had entered grade Normal. 201 children entered as Grade TI malnourished
in January 1995, and in. December 1997, 37.8% had entered Normal and 40.8% had graduated to
Grade I. Similarly, 77 children entered the programme as Grade III malnutrition and when they
left the programme in December 1997, 35.1% were Normal grade, 41.6% graduated to Grade I
and 15.5.% graduated to Grade II. Out of 14 children who entered as Grade IY malnutrition,
14.3% became Grade II. The gradings are done as per weight for age under lAP clariication (as
given below) These improvements were made possible through the various interventions in the
project.
TOTAL        GRADE-I      GRADE-H      GRADE-Ili  GDE-
GRADE-IV          0.07         0.13         0.50         1.30          0.00
GRADE-E           0.56         0.82         1.99         6.49         14.29
GRADE-il          6.80         9.40         18.91        15.59   _    14.29
GRADE-I          35.28        38.86        40.80         41.56 i      57.13
NORMAL            57.29       50.79         37.80        35.06        14.29
NO.OF 
CHILDREN      6961         1585         201           77           14
Growth Faltering and Supplementary Feeding
7.    Analysis of the number of children who had one or more episodes of goro7th faltering and
their response to nutrition intervention in the six districts mentioned above revealed certain
interesting features. (A child in the Normal or Grade I is said to falter in growth, if he comes
down to a lower trajectory from his original growth curve. He is said to have graduated if he goes
back to his original trajectory. Once selected for feeding, he would be given food for minimum 90
days). A total of 1894 children had entry into the project in January 1995 either in Normal or
Grade I malnutrition. These children have left the project in December 1997 a ter completion of
36 months. Out of these 202 (11%) children completed 36 months vithout any growth faltering.
The maximum number of episodes of growth faltering was four in any given child. 1692 children
had supplementary feedings for 1 to 4 episodes of growth faltering. 59% of these children had
graduated after different number of episodes, but 41% continued to be in the feeding programme
for a prolonged period in different episodes. It is also to note that 28% of children never
graduated. The table below shows this pattern:



Appendix B
Page 4 of 12
Table 3
Growth    Number of  Children    Graduated   Number of
faltering                                       children in
With        Without    Total         continuous      Total
relapse     subse-                   feeding up
quent                    to 31.12.97
relapse
I episode     768          450         1218         474           1692
(45.4%)     (26.6%)       (72%)       (28%)         (100%)
II episode    258          354         612          156           768
(33.6%)     (46.1%)      (79.7%)     (20.3%)        (100%)
III            46          153          199         59            258
episode      (17.8)      (59.3%)     (77.1%)      (22.9%)       (100%)
IV                         36           36           19            46
episode                  (78.2%)      (78.3%)     (21.7%)       (100%)
8.    Hence we find that 67% of the children under feeding graduate within 180 days after I
episode and 33% graduate later on as shown in the table below: (The number of children in
continuous feeding are excluded). The proportion of recovery within 180 days increases with the
increase in the number of episode and ranges from 67% to 97%. Therefore, the exit criterion so
far followed in TINP needs a rethinking.
Table 4
Episode          Graduation within days                   Total
0-90           91-180         > 180
I            533            287            398           1218
(43.8%)        (23.5%)        (32.7%)        (100%)
II           333            156            123            612
(54.4%)        (25.5%)        (20.1%)        (100%)
III          126             57             16             199
(63.3%)        (28.6%)        (8.1%)         (100%)
IV            31             4               1             36
(86.1%)        (11.1%)        (2.8%)         (100%)
9.    This pattern seen in the six districts, viz. Madurai, Tirunelveli, Toothukudi,
Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore and Erode is expected to be present in the other districts also.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 12
Gender Discrimination
10.   The Govemment of Tamil Nadu have launched certain schemes to eradicate the problem
of female infanticide and to remove the discrimination towards girl children. TINP had several
IEC activities to create awareness in the state over the gender discrimination in some pockets of
certain districts.
11.   It is interesting to find as to how in certain districts, the number of male children in severe
grade of malnutrition are lower in different age groups compared to female children. However,
this difference is not so significant among Normal, Grade I and II, e.g., the number of severely
malnourished children during December 1997 according the monitoring data were:
Table 5
Age              Male                Female                 Total
0-5                817                884                    1701
6-12               757                1186                   1943
13-24              1660               2711                    4371
25-36              1120                1851                   2971
12.  There was a marked gender imbalance with inter-district variations. Four types-pattern
appear to be present (Fig. 1).
Fig. 1
PREVALENCE OF SEVERE MAL-NUTRITION - GENDER (MALE-FEMALE!
IMBALANCE (DECEMBER 1997)
Type-Pattern A
M A DURAI
160
140
120                                                    1
IL
Lu  100
z    60                                            .....
40
20
0
0 - 5          6 - 12        13 - 24         25 - 36
AGE IN MONTHS



Appendix B
Page 6 of 12
13.   During the period of 0-12 months, the community appears to have shown more concern
and effort to improve the nutritional status of male infants than female infants. During the period
of 13-24 months, when the prevalence of malnutrition is usually seen in its peak, there is a wide
gap in the numbers of male and female children in these areas. Nine districts, viz, Madurai,
Virudhunagar, Veilore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Tiruchirapalli, Toothukudi, Tiruvannamalai and
Sivagangai fall in this Type-pattern.
Type-Pattern 7S
ERO DE
5 0
4 u   3 9 -:--  :-w--.:-- 
z - ------:- : -- /- - - :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........  3   6
m 3 0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....,,,. .,_j ... ..............
....... ...................... .. ~~... . ........... ..
1 20
10
0 -5            6- 12           13 -24           25 -36
A G E IN M O N T HS
14.    Here, during the period of 0-12 months, the community appears to have shown equal
concern and effwort without any gender bias to improve the severely malnourished. However,
between 13-24 months, the gap in the numbers of male and female children is very large. Erode,
Coimbatore and Salem fall in this Type-pattern.
Tvne-Pattern C
C UDDALORE
1 40
1210                   -                        -
I 0 0 ---/C-
IL
m    8 0
E   E    7   ---   -  -  - - . - 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71
D 6 0
4 0
20                                            .... .   .......
0
0 -5             6 -12            13 -24           25 -36
AGE IN M ONTHS



Appendix B
Page 7 of 12
15.   Here, the caring practices for children from 0-24 months is equally bad irrespective of the
sex for the severely malnourished. Villupuram, Cuddalore, Tirunelveli, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam
and Ramanathapuram fall in this type-pattern.
Type-Pattern D
KAN NIY AKUM A RI
3 0
3     --0'            .ig .i .g . .tt . . .  . . . ... ................ .  . . .,., .. .. ., ,, . g ..... ..
2  5  -   B    .. -  _   .  ,  ......... - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ....   
2 5
--- 0 0 l- B B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    B.....  ......   . ......  . ......':
- 2 0         ~       _       .       .     .     ....
2     0                              ..    E ; 2< - ..........   .... .... ....
15
1 0
5
0   5           6   1 2        1 3 - 24         25 - 36
A G E IN  M O NT HS
16.    This is an interesting pattern and appears to be model for other districts to emulate on this
issue. Irrespective of sex, the community is showing equal concern and making all efforts to
improve the nutritional status of severely malnourished children. Kanyakumari district falls into
this pattern.
17.    These 4 Types-Pattern also indicate the level of knowledge and caring practices of the
people. These problems are to be addressed with area specific IEC activities and training for
staff.
18.    However, looking at the patterns  with regard to Normal, Grade I and Grade II
malnourished children, one can find no difference in pattern between sexes. This may probably
indicate that by and large sex discrimination is not alarming in the normal course of events. But
when special efforts, extra time and additional money are required in combating a chronic
disease like severe malnutrition, the caring practices of parents towards male and female children
differ from place to place.
Health - Nutrition Coordination
19.    A calendar of activities has been worked out for joint visits of CNW  and Village Health
Nurse (VHN) to families on particular days in addition to other centre based activities on fixed
days for Immunisation, ante-natal/post-natal care, micro nutrient, Vitamin 'A' and Iron Folic Acid
and ORS are stocked in the CNCs so that a VHN can dispense them on specified dates. The
monthly review Meetings for Health and Nutrition staff at the Primary Health Centres (PHCs)
have helped the staff to work together successfully during special campaign like "Pulse Polio".



Appendix B
Page 8 of 12
The report developed during this joint visits and special campaigns has helped in increasing the
number of cases referred to the PHCs and other higher medical Institutions.
20.   Immunisation coverage for all vaccines range from 76.9% to 95.5%. The usage of ORS
for combating diarrhoeal diseases has increased to 82% and ranges from 50% to 98.1%. ARI
programme which picked up recently has also done well 82% of cases have taken treatment as
per Terminal Evaluation Report.
Communication and Community Participation
21.   TINP II Communication strategies were suitably modified and developed to address various
issues in Mother and Child Care. The main objectives and purposes of communication component as
spelt out in Staff Appraisal Report have been achieved through certain gaps exist in a few behavioural
issues.
22.   Communication activities have succeeded largely in creating awareness and acceptance of
project services. Motivation and counselling techniques are followed in interpersonal contacts by field
staff to change the attitude and practice of resistant mothers. The findings of formative research
indicate that there is positive (1996-97) attitude in respect of ante natal registration and breast feeding.
The practice of taking extra quantity of food during lactation is with all the mothers. In the early years
of the project mothers were not willing to disclose their pregnancy at the early stage with a
misconception that disclosure may cause harm to the foetus. After continued interpersonal contact and
counselling of mothers during campaign on "All About Ante-Natal Care" positive attitude towards
early registration of pregnancy and widespread practice of availing ante-natal check-up have improved.
The terminal evaluation conducted by NIN also reveals that the proportion of pregnant women who
were registered before 20 weeks of pregnancy is 80% and 90% of women availed ante-natal check-up
as compared to about 39% at the time of baseline survey.
23.   After the elections to local bodies were over in the state all the Working Women Groups
(WWG) were restructured and strengthened. During the WWG meeting specific focus was made on
birth weight recording, regular monthly weighing, spot feeding. Now WWG members are taking
active part in motivating mothers by forming groups, each group being in-charge of one ward of the
Panchayat. It was emphasised that supplementary food is like a therapy for malnutrition and not food
for hunger. As a result of such motivational approach mothers have developed positive attitude
towards centre feeding. The encouraging aspects is that 95% of these receiving the supplementary food
were consuming the food at the centre itself (DTC by NIN)
24.   Since findings of various studies show that there are inter-district variations in certain areas for
which decentralised, theme specific and area focused strategies are adopted to address the local needs
and problems. Decision makers like mothers-in-law and husbands are sensitized.
25.   The WWGs of TINP have been converted as self help groups to strengthen and sustain their
interest in the project. Credit and Thrift Societies formed by them have been activated during the last
two years of the project. Some of the groups in most of the districts have been involved in income
generating activities. Others are involved in intra-micro credit activities. Linkages of these groups



Appendix B
Page 9 of 12
with Developing Women and Children in Rural Areas (DWACRA), are taken up with the help of
District Collectors, community mobilisation efforts which created a lot of enthusiasm both among the
public and the functionaries are continued with the same vigour Participatory Rapid
Appraisal/Participatory Learning and Action (PRA/PLA) training to functionaries are imparted in a
phased manner so as to ensure more community participation in assessing, analysing and solving the
problems by themselves. This strategic approach will pave way for long term sustainability and
community ownership in future.
Training
26.   The training component has successfully completed almost all training programme. The
curriculum for the training was developed in a systematic manner through a careful task analysis of the
responsibilities of each functionary. On completion of the initial training the Communication and
Training Centre (CTC) organized a number of additional training programme based on the needs such
as early childhood stimulation, sandwich training for Child Welfare Organiser (CWO) promotee
Community Nutrition Instructress (CNI)/and promotee Community Nutrition Supervisors (CNS). The
main objective of these training was to improve their skill in training, supervision and to bring about an
attitudinal change.
27.   There was a backlog in giving refresher training due to paucity of fund and time constraint.
Now the training wing is completing the refresher training for districtlblock level functionaries, but it
will be in a position to complete the same in the case of grass-root level workers on receipt of
retroactive finance under the proposed Woman and Child Development Project.
28.   The training programme of the project has created a great impact among all functionaries
through its modular approach in refresher training and has concentrated on behavioural and attitudinal
changes especially on birth weight, growth monitoring, spot feeding, preparation of Amylase rich food
as therapeutic food for management of moderate, and severe malnutrition and also as the diet during
illness and after. The training wing has found the participatory methodology as a very effective
method in bringing about attitudinal changes among functionaries in order to change the attitudes of
care givers. The co-ordination between Health and Nutrition Staff has been considerably strengthened
through joint training of Block Training Teams. The training wing has concentrated on the holistic
development of children besides the regular Health and Nutrition Service.
29.   The detailed list of training programmne completed is given below.
(1991-98)



Appendix B
Page 10 of 12
Training particulars        To whom           Duration break up          Organised by         Physical achievement
District level
Orientation Training    DPNO-DCO-SI           5 days                  CTC                     19
Re-orientation training    DPNO-DCO-SI        3 days                  CTC                     15
Orientation training    DPHN-DEE-MEIO        5 days                   CTC                    48
Zonal level
Orientation training    ZPNO                  5 days                  CTC                    26
Block level
Job training            CNI (new recruits)    I month                 CTC                    272
Orientation training    CNI (existing)        15 days                 CTC                     149
Block training team     CNI-CHN-BEE-BHS   I month                     CTC/Other institution    925
(BTT)                   CNI                  5 days                   CTC                    296
Refresher training      CNI-CHN-BEE-BHS   5 days                      CTC                     782
Joint refresher training
(BTT)                   CNI                   15 days                 CTC                    384
Refresher training on
early
childhood education     CNI                  5 days                   CTC                    296
Refresher training on
improved services for 0-3  CWO promotee CNI   10 days                 CTC                     96
years children



Appendix B
Page 11 of 12
Training particulars       To whom             Duration break up          Organised by      Physical achievement
Sandwich course
CNS (new recruits)    8 weeks                   CTC/other institutions  980
Sector level           CNS (existing)       3 weeks                     CTC/other institutions  664
Job training           CNS-SHN               1 week                     BTT                   1302-1379
Orientation training   CNS                  3 days                      BTT                   1071
Joint training         CNS-SHN              5 days                      BTT                  499-401
In-service training
Joint refresher training
Village level
Job training           CNW (new recruits)   Total 56 days
Theory + Practical = 42 days  BTT                12397
Joint training days =  7 days
Field preparation =  7 days
Joint training    =  7 days
CNW (Existing        Field preparation =  7 days  BTT                 7214
Total             56 days
Theory + Practical = 45 days
CWO                  Joint training    = 7 days   BTT                 19196
Field preparation = 4 days
CNW-CWO-VHN                                      BTT                  17093-16141-6973
Orientation training   Helpers               1 week                     BTT                   16954
Sector level
Refresher training     CNW                   5 days                     BTT                   2074
ICWO                  5 days                      BTT                  1679
Joint refresher        CNW-CWO-VHN          2 days                      BTT                   916-661-316



Appendix B
Page 12 of 12
Innovative Approaches:
Apart from the training mentioned in SAR, the Project has organised the following training programmes in innovative approach to improve the qual
services of the field functionaries.
1) CWO promotee CNI sandwich course                                        10 days
2) CWO promotee CNS sandwich course                                        10 days
3) Refresher training to CNIs on improved services for 0-3 years children  :  5 days
4) Refresher training on Early childhood education to CNIs                 15 days
5) Trainers training on pre-school (play for child development)             7 days
Workshops:
1) CNS curriculum revision workshop
2) Process workshop
Training to other organisation:
1) Training on health and nutrition for Jawadhu hills TRC Volunteers
2) Orientation on TINP-II strategy to B.Sc., nursing students of various institutions:    10 days



