Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8497-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
MAY 10, 1990
Asia Country Department IV (India)
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 - Rs 17
Rs 1.00 = USS 0.059
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
'iEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNC         -     Community Nutrition Center
CNI         -     Community Nutrition Instructress
CNS         -     Community Nutrition Supervisor
CNW         -     Community Nutrition Worker
DANIDA      -    Danish International Development Agency
DEAR        -    Department of Evaluation and Applied Research
GOT         -    Government of India
ICDS        -    Integrated Child Development Services
IDA         -     International Development Association
IMR         -     Infant Mortality Rate
MCH         -    Maternal and Child Health
NFI         -    Nutrition Foundation of India
NMC         -    Nutritious Meals Center
NMP         -    Nutritious Meals Program
NNMB        -    National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
SIDA        -     Swedish International Development Agency
TINP        -     Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
UNICEF      -    United Nations Children Fund
VHN         -    Village Health Nurse
WWG         -    Women's Working Group



FOR O"ICAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................... .                          iii
I.  BACKGROUND .           ........                      ............
A.  Introduction          .............................................     1
B.  Nutrition Status in Tamil Nadu          .............................  1
C.  Existing Nutrition Programs ........................... .   .          2
D.  Nutrition Funding ................... .......................          5
E.  Outstanding Issues in Nutrition and
the Government's Strategy ...................   ..............         6
F.  The Role of Foreign Assistance .............................           6
II.   THE PROJECT         ...................................................     8
A.  Goals and Objectives .......      ..........................           8
B.  Scope ...        ..................................................    9
C.  Strategy ....................... 4 ...........................         9
D.  Project Description   ........................................        11
E.  Communication and Community Participation .       .................   16
F.  Project Management          .........................................  17
G. Monitoring and Evaluation ..8................................          i
III.  ESTIMATED COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION .........      ........      19
A.  Cost Estimates ........................  ......................       19
B.  Financing Plan           .............................................  20
C.  Recurrent Cost Implications .          .                              20
D.  Project Implementation ..........................................     21
E.  Disbursements ....................... .. ..      ......................  22
F.  Procurement           ................................................  23
G.  Accounting and Auditing  ......      ........................ ......  25
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................................           27
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............ ............           28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India from
21-28 January, 1990 comprising Mr. James Greene (Principal Nutrition
Specialist--Mission Leader), Mr. Richard Heaver (Senior Operations Officer),
Ms. Jasvir Bhasin (Secretary), and the following consultants: Dr. John Kevany
(Public Health Specialist), Mr. H. Laroya (Architect), Mr. Sunil Mehra
(Communication Specialist), Ms. Meera Shekar (Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist), and Mr. N. M. Murthy (Financial Analyst). Mr. Jay Satia,
Mss. Vivian Mendoza, Eileen Truman, and Paula Walden assisted in preparing the
report.
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
TABLES
3.1  Estimated Project Costs by Component        ................             19
3.2  Estimated Project costs by Category of Expenditure .............         19
3.3  Financing Plan .........................20
3.4  ProcuremenL ..... .............        .       ........ .                26
ANNEXES
1.   Process Objectives ........ ..............  .. .......                30
2.  TINP IITINP II: Service Delivery Problems and Responses                33
3.   A Draft Strategy for Health/Nutrition Coordination                    36
4.   Organization of Health Services   ....................                44
5.   Training Component ...................... ..... . $.#. ... ...        46
6.   Comunnications Component .. ................  ...     .. .  .....    49
7.  Monitoring and Evaluation. .. ................                         55
8.   Detailed Project Cost Estimates .................... ......           58
9.   Project Implementation Schedule        .................              74
10.   Percentage of Incremental Operating Costs for IDA
Financing ................................. .. .........            76
11.   Forecast of Estimated Expenditures and Disbursements                  77
12.   Selected Documents in the Project File         ........               78
CHARTS
1.   Organization of Project Management.. .............                    80
2.   District & Block Level Organization Structure ................        81



- iii -
IDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowers            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiarys         Government of Tamil Nadu.
Amounts               SDR73.5 (US$95.8 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard, with 35 years maturity.
On-lending terms:    Government of India to Tamil Nadu:  In accordance with
standard arrangements for development assistance to
States for the development of nutrition projects on terms
and :onditions applicable at the time.
Descriptions         The project would support the Government's goal of
improving the nutrition and health status of children 0-
72 months of age, and of pregnant and nursing women. The
project would be located in the State of Tamil Nadu.
Existing services introduced under the earlier IDA-aided
nutrition project (TINP I) would be strengthened and
enhanced in 122 of Tamil Nadu's 38f rural blocks. The new
service package also would be extended to 194 rural
blocks which currently bave no effective nutrition
coverage of under-three children and are not served by
the Integrated Child Development Services program. The
specific objectives of the project would be to reduce
severe malnutrition among children 6-36 months by 502 in
new project blocks and 251 in TINP I blocks; increase the
proportion of children 6-36 months of age in normal
nutrition status by 50 in new and 352 in existing
project areas; and contribute to a reduction in infant
mortality to 55 per 1,000 live births and to a 502
reduction in the incidence of low birth weight. The
project would comprise the following components: (a)
service delivery, to increase the range, coverage and
quality of nutrition and health services to the target
groups through improvements in the design of software
systems, provision of nutrition and health education and
of health referral services, supply of therapeutic food



- iv -
to the malnourished, increasing the availability of
equipment and drugs for maternal and child health, and
training for health and nutrition workers and traditional
birth attendants; (b) cozmunication and community
participation, to stimulate demand for project services,
improve child feeding and care practices, and promote
community involvement, through support for institutional
development, provision of communications equipment and
materials, and support for formation of women's groups and
community education, and (c) project management and
evaluation, to expand and strengthen TINP I's Project
Coordination Office, to expand and strengthen the existing
monitoring and evaluation system, to develop a new apex
institution for nutrition commmnications and training
activities in the state and to provide support for
operations research.
Benefits and Risks: The project would improve nutrition and health status of
disadvantaged population groups in Tamil Nadu, with more
than five million children under six and two million
pregnant and lactating women directlv benefiting from the
project's services. In new project areas, about 18,000
women would get training and employment as Community
Nutrition Workers, and in the project area as a whole
about 20,000 female Traditional Birth Attendants would be
trained. The project would also have indirect benefits in
terms of testing new technologies and managerial
arrangements which may prove replicable elsewhere.
The main risk is that coordination between health and
nutrition services may not function smoothly and may
reduce project impact, as was the case under the First
Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project. A wide range of measures is
proposed to minimize this risk, including structural
reform of the concerned departments, joint training
arrangements, and joint field visits for service provision
and supervision. The risk to overall impact is also
limited to the extent that the project is building on
major gains in nutritional status made under TINP I, and
further gains can be expected from planned improvements to
the nutrition delivery strategy alone.



Estimated Costss                        Local      Foreign    Total
------- USS million ------
A. Service Delivery
1. Nutrition                         89.08      1.93       91.09
2. Health                            26.05      4.07       30.12
3. Training                           6.28      0.33        6.61
B. Communications                        3.25      0.28        3.53
C. Project Management
1. Project Coordination Office        4.95      0.04        4.99
2. Communication/Training Ctr.        1.01      0.06        1.07
3. Monitoring & Evaluation            1.33      0.05        1.38
Total Base Cost                        131.95      6.76       138.71
Contingencies                                             0.38
Total ProJect Cost                                            139.09*
* including taxes and duties of US$5.0 million.
Financing Plan:    IDA:                 87.4       8.4         95.8
GOTN:                43.3       -          43.3
Total              130.7       8.4        139.1
Estimated
Disbursements:  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96   FY97   FY98
Annual             4.0    2.0    9.3    16.1   26.0    20.5   15.3    2.6
Cumulative        4.0    6.0   15.3    31.4   57.4    77.9   93.2   95.8
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable



INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      Tamil Nadu's commitment to nutrition reflects both the state's own
emphasis on raising the living standards of the poor and India's development
priority to poverty alleviation. Tamil Nadu's efforts have met with some
success despite incomes and general nutrition status which remain lower than
the national average. Infant mortality rates (IMR) are around 202 lower than
the average for India; about two-thirds of Tamil Nadu infants have completed
necessary immunizations. The 1986 death rate for children 0-4 years of age was
estimated at 25.1, among the lowest in India. The state's 1987 'iirth rate was
estimated at 23.6 per 1,000 population against 32 for India as a whole.
1.02      Tamil Nadu's nutrition efforts span a quarter century; by the late
1970s, Tamil Nadu was spending about US$8.8m per annum on no less than 25
programs in the nutrition sector, three quarters of which was accounted for by
a school meals program reaching around two million children. However, all of
the state's nutrition programs combined reached less than 102 of pre-school
children, the group that studies had shown to be most affected by
malnutrition. Evaluation studies had also shown that existing nutrition
programs needed to do more to improve their targeting, to promote better
nutrition practices within families, and to strengthen maternal and child
health services. Since then, and in response to the desire to improve the
quality of services and increase their coverage, the state launched four major
nutrition programs, which now absorb almost all nutrition spending: the Tamil
Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP), assisted by IDA, and the Nutritious
Heals Program, (NMP), exclusively funded by the state; and the Integrated
Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS) and the Public Distribution System
(PDS), funded both by the Government of India (GOI) and the state.
B. Nutrition Status in Tamil Nadu
1.03      Tamil Nadu nutrition status historically has tended to be lower than
for India as a whole. Host surveys by the National Nutrition Monitoring
Bureau (NNMB) of the National Institute of Nutrition have indicated
comparatively lower levels of food intake, particularly among the poorest and
most disadvantaged populations, in Tamil Nadu than in other Indian states at
similar levels of income and development. NNMB has not undertaken a Tamil
Nadu survey in recent years: however, in 1986 Tamil Nadu itself carried one
out in the roughly one half of the state covered by TINP. Children under four
(the age group most vulnerable in terms of malnutrition and mortality) were
classified as follows: severely malnourished, about 112 (so called grade III
and IV children with weight for age of less than 602 of the norm); moderately
malnourished, about 322 (so called grade II children with weight for age
between 60 and 702 of the norm); and normal and mildly malnourished, about
572. These figures are comparable to other areas of rural India. No recent
survey of nutrition conditions elsewhere in the state has been carried out;



vii
responsibilities more clearly, and begin to tackle pollution and competition
issues seriously. Fixially, procurement practices are resulting in costly
delays, and need to be improved.
19.         Although Costa Rica's social indicators are exceptionally high in
Latin America, the economic crisis has slowed their progress in the 1980s.
Public spending on social programs remains large, about one-half of the public
budget, but spending per capita in education, health, and nutrition has fallen
significantly since 1980. Moreover, although poor households &dclined as a
share of the total population, the absolute number of poor psople increased
significantly from 1977 to 1986. Population growth, despite significant
declines in fertility rates until the mid-1970s, continues to be a concern.
In the 1990s, the Government will have to cope with increased demand for
services and continued budget restrictions, heightening the importance of
improving the efficiency and equity of social programs. In education,
spending currently is regressive;  priority needs to be given to improving the
quality of primary education, and counteracting current trends toward
increased inequality of opportunities. Resources should be increased for
primary education, teacher pay and pension schemes need to be revised, and
assistance programs for poor families should be put in place; user fees should
also be introduced at the university level. In health, the Government should
improve the quality of service and cost recovery through a variety of
measures; coordination and rationalization of Ministry of Health and CCSS
programs needs to be improved. Targeting of nutrition programs needs to be
improved so that benefits reach those suffering the greatest distress; the
school fee X"g program in particular requires reform. The social security
system is also in urgent need of reform, if its financial viability is to be
protected. Priority actions should include raising the retirement age for all
pension schemes and standardizing benefits across programs. Lastly, family
planning programs need to be strengthened and expanded, with particular
attention to the needs of adolescent mothers.
20.         Women's issues occupy an important place in Costa Rican politics,
and the Government has supported progressive legislation and programs to
defend women's rights. Universal access to social programs since the 1960s
has resulted in high social indicators and improvements in human capital
formation, particularly among women. Nevertheless, in the workplace women
still receive lower positions and salaries than men. Fiscal austerity creates
additional problems: restraints on government services affect women
disproportionately, as will reductions in government staffing requirements,
for the public sector has provided the most attractive employment
opportunities for women. Four issues require attention in the future. First,
a central institution, such as Centro Nacional para el Desarrollo de la Mujer
y la Familia, needs to be strengthened so that it can play an effective
coordinating role when dealing with other government agencies, NGOs, and
donors. Second, educational and publicity campaigns need to be launched, with
the objective of increasing women's awareness of their rights as well as
educating private employers and public agencies. Third, policies and programs
need to be designed and implemented to facilitate increased labor market
participation by women, particularly in the private sector. In the public
sector, rationalization of the work force should take into account the
importance of women's employment in the sector. Fourth, support for family



service training. A Conmnity Nutrition Supervisor (CNS), one for ten CNWs,
visits each CNC twice monthly, oversees CNW work, spot checks the weights of
children enrolled for supplementary feeding and closely examines children with
inadequate weight. At the block level, a Comunity Nutrition Instructress
(CNI) is responsible for imparting pre-service and in-service training and
supplies CNC medicines. At the rate of one every two blocks, a Project
Nutrition Officer oversees on an average the work of two Nutrition
Instructesses, 15 supervisors and S50 CNWs. She also liaises with the health
services. A District Project Nutrition Officer oversees and coordinates all
the nutrition related activities in the district.
1.07      TTNP's strengths and weaknesses were reviewed in a recent draft
Project Completion Report which concluded that implementation experience with
the project was good.  Comnnity natrition centers were set up as planned in
about 9,000 villages. Workers' skills and motivation were evaluated as very
high. About 2,000 new Health Sub-Centers were constructed. Implementation
delays were not significant. A two-year extension of the project (which
closed in March 1989) was approved to carry out additional activities in
keeping with the project's objectives.  Factors responsible for smooth
implementation included the state's strong political commitment to the sector;
the high quality of the managers assigned to the program by the state; the
attention given during project preparation to the design of software systems;
and the use of the first project year for field testing of these systems in a
small area before rapid subsequent expansion. The project was also evaluated
as sustainable; the state decided to continue funding the program from its own
resources after project closing, and its annual recurrent cost of US$4.7m
represented less than five per cent of the state's spending on nutrition in
'989190.
1.08      With regard to the program's impact, it is estimated that TINP
contributed to a reduction of a third to a half in severe malnourishment among
6-24 month olds and contributed, together with the 10P, to a reduction of
about half in severe malnutrition among 6-60 month olds. These achievements
surpass those of most other nutrition programs. On the other hand, the
project did not achieve its perhaps overly ambitious goal of reducing
malnutrition as a whole by 50S. Even in the parts of Tamil Nadu benefitting
longest from the project, severe and moderate malnutrition combined fell by
282 (from 53S to 38X) for under sit children, and by only ten per cent for
under three children; results were not as good elsewhere. The main problem
was difficulty in substantially reducing moderate malnutrition.
1.09      The project's health goals were only partially met. Infant
mortality went down by 12-26Z iu different project areas, as against the
project goal of 25Z. Success in achieving the targeted reductions in Vitamin
A deficiency and anaemia (para 1.04) was not directly evaluated. But the
targets could not have been achieved, since process evaluation indicated that
less than a quarter of under six children and pregnant and lactating women had
been covered by the related health interventions.
1.10      TIMP provided many important lessons.  On the nutrition side, the
project showed that part-time village workers, if properly trained and
supported. can substantially improve their community's nutritional status.
Second, the project demonstrated unambiguously that growth monitoring is an



- 4 -
effective intervention i. large-scale nutrition progra-ss. Third, the project
showed that targeted, short-term supplementation for growth-faltering and for
severely malnourished children can significantly reduce severe malnutrition;
TINP's targeting system meant that only 25S of children were being
supplemented at any one time. The program has also been conaended for several
features of its software design on the nutrition side. These include
carefully defined criteria for recruiting suitable local field staff;
limitation of field worker tasks to what is manageable ard high priority;
specification of daily and monthly work rottines; its innovative decentralized
training system; supervisory ratios which :scilitate on the job training; the
display of performance information to clients and workers at the village
nutrition center; a management information system which could rapidly detect
performers falling below established norms; and the use of women's groups to
support project activities. In particular, observers have noted that the
women's groups fostered a degree of community involvement in the project far
greater than in other large scale nutrition programs in India. Several of
TINP's features have already been taken up for replication in Bank-assisted
nutrition operations in other countries.
1.11      The Project Completion Report also noted a number of weaknesses in
the nutrition, health and evaluation components of the program, as follows.
(Strategies to deal with these weaknesses in the proposed Second Tamil Nadu
Nutrition Pro=ect are summarized in paras 2.06-2.10 below).  Four main
problems on the nutrition side were identified. First, about 30Z of eligible
children in the project areas did not benefit from project services, mainly
because they lived too far from the nearest CNC. Second, just over four per
cent of children failed to respond to project inputs, and remained in feeding.
Though the numbers were small, this was a serious problem, because these were
mainly severely malnourished children, at high risk of dying. Third, as noted
above, the project did not make a substantial impact on moderate malnutrition.
Fourth, around 42Z of children who graduated from feeding (see pati 1.06)
required further supplementation within six months because they failed to
continue to gain weight. Around 6Z relapsed twice; less than 1 required a
third round of supplementation. Thus, while the project succeeded in helping
these children, they might have recovered sooner to a normal growth path had
they received a longer, unbroken initial period of supplementary feeding.
1.12      The main problems on the health side were institutional.  Weak
cooperation between the Departments of Health and Social Welfare at the state
level was reflected in failure to send appropriate signals to field workers to
cooperate. Consequently, health workers did not regularly visit the CNCs and
work as a team with the CNVs. One indicator of this was an evaluation finding
that only 28Z of pregnant women knew the name of their health worker, as
opposed to 69Z for CNWs. With regard to the evaluation component, problems
included difficulties in separating project effects from effects of other
nutrition programs and from secular trends in the state; these steamed from
having a small control area (one hlock) which was not very well matched with
the project pilot block against which key comparisons were made in the
evaluation. Also, baseline and evaluation surveys were carried out in
different seasons.
1.13      A more general finding of the evaluation was that, while TINP's
design was flexible during the first project year when different strategies



were being tested, the design 'froze' during later years. The consequence was
that, while several evaluation findings--such as relative Xailure to deal with
moderate malnutrition--became evident during implementation on the bai'is of
monitoring data, this infotmation was not used to the full for mid-course
correction. A systematic attempt to correct for project weaknesses was not
made until the beginning of the preparation process for the proposed second
project.
1.14      The Nutritious Meals Program (NMP1. This program was introduced
throughout the stata beginning in 1982 to meet social, as well as nutrition
and health, goals and provides a regular noon meal to children aged 2-14
years. It also feeds old-age pensioners and desititute widows NMP functions
through 63,000 feeding centers; a center with a noon meal organizer and two
helpers serves every 70-150 pre-school children, and a noon meal organizer is
also employed part time for every 500 school children. OMP confines itself to
feeding, to the exclusion of nutrition education and necessary coordination
with health services. Its nutritional impact has not been carefully
evaluated. However, since NMP does not fully cover the most nutritionally
vulnerable group--very young children and pregnant women--its main
developmental benefits are more likely to be social rather than developmental
from a physical or intellectual perspective.
1.15      Integrated Child Development Services (ICS.  The ICDS scheme
offers an integrated package of nutrition, health and pre-school services to
under six children in poorer areas of India. Since its inauguration in 1975,
it has become the main pre-school child development program, covering 402 of
the country. In Tamil Nadu, the development of TIMP pre-dated the national
expansion of ICDS, so that ICDe operates on a small scale in only about 26
rural blocks, although it has achieved good coverage in the poorest urban
locales. TINP and ICDS together cover just over half of the state's rural
areas. The remainder of the state remains unserved by any nutrition program
targeted to the most vulnerable groups. It is difficult to compare ICDS and
TINP because ICDS covers children up to six years 3f age And includes pre-
school education, whereas TINP focussed on children under three with nutrition
and health services only. Only one study has attempted to compare the cost-
effectiveness of the two programs as nutrition interventions. It concluded
that TINP has had a greater impact on severe malnutrition than ICDS for the
same or perhaps lower cost. Both programs have had limited success with
reducing moderate malnutrition, and with getting nutrition and health services
to work together.
1.16      Public Distribution System.  The PDS provides subsidized staple
foods to poorer families through a network of 'fair price shops'. It also was
founded in the 1970s and has expanded nation-wide. In most states its reach
has been more to the urban than to the rural poor, but in Tamil Nadu, along
with Kerala and Gujarat, the PDS also serves the rural areas. No systematic
evaluation of the PDS's impact on nutrition has been made in Tamil Nadu. But
in general, the experience with the program has been that, while it increases
families' overall food secutity, it does not significantly reduce malnutrition
among very young children. It is therefore not a substitute for targeted
nutrition and health interventions to the most vulnerable age groups, like the
TINP and ICDS programs.



D. Nutrition Funding
1.17      In 1986-87, the Tamil Na#;u government spent Re. 1759 million (US$
104 million) on various nutrition programs, 90 percent of it on the NMP.  Of
the remaining expenditure, three-fourths was on TINP and one-fourth on ICDS.
Nutrition program expenditure accounted for 15.7 percent of expenditure on
social services and 5.2 percent of total government expenditure. Social
services receive considerable emphasis in Tamil Nadu. During the last decade
(1979-88), state government expenditure grew at an annual rate of 2.3 percent
while expenditure on social services grew at a yearly rate of 7.6 percent.
B. Nutrition Issues and the Government's Strategy
1.18      Tamil Nadu's investment in the nutrition sector has led to a
substantial reduction in severe malnutrition in the approximately half the
state where TINP and ICDS operate. However, no direct nutrition int4rvention
is available for the youngest and most vulnerable age group in the other half
of the state, where nutrition conditions have yet to catch up with
improvements in TINP and ICDS areas. In addition, two other broad
deficiencies remain to be resolved: (a) lack to date of a major reduction in
moderate malnutrition; and (b) continuing weak cooperation between health and
nutrition services in the field.
1.19      The lessons from TINP I suggest that with specific changes in
strategy much more could be done to reduce moderate malnutrition and increase
healthinutrition coordination; and that these strategic changes plus expansion
of the TINP program state-wide are an affordable option for the state. Tamil
Nadu's nutrition strategy for the most vulnerable age groups is therefore to
build on the strong foundation of TINP. Based on its experience with ICDS,
Tamil Nadu intends to build pre-school activities for children aged 3-5 years
into the existing network of Nutritious Meals Centers which already serve that
age group. To promote cost-effectiveness, the state's strategy is to
amalgamate NKCs and CNCs so as to provide integrated child development
services at a single center for the under-sixes, along lines similar to the
national ICDS program. The longer-term objective is to converge both the TINP
and ICDS models by adopting the best features of each.
F. The Role of Foreign Assistance
1.20      Donors other than IDA.  At the national level, external donor
involvement in ICDS is relatively small. CARE donates supplementary nutrition
for around five million ICDS beneficiaries in seven states, and the World Food
Program supplies around 2.1 million beneficiaries in five states. UNICEF
provides equipment and funds all basic training for new ICDS centers. USAID
has supported ICDS expansion and strengthening in one district each of Gujarat
and Maharashtra. In Tamil Nadu, UNICEF's and recent SIDA support in one
district for ICDS and IDA's for TINP have been the only direct donor
involvement in the nutrition sector. DANIDA supported a US$12.5 million
equivalent health care project in two districts of the state from 1981 to
1987, and a second phase costing US$1 million equivalent will continue the
project until 1992. The focus is on integrating the delivery of maternal and
child health services, improving staff training, education activities,
man-agement, maintenance and information systems. UNICEF has also recently



sanctioned a small (US$300,000) child survival project in two districts of
Tamil Nadu. This will be implemented primarily through the health system,
focusing particularly on developing the Traditional Birth Attendant as a link
with the population. Key services to be emphasized will include ante-natal
services, safe chi'dbirth and nutrition education; better care of the new
born, especial' ow birth waight babies; immunization, Vitamin A
supplementation and oral rehydration therapy.
1.21      The Bank's Role and Strategy.  The US$32m IDA credit for the Tamil
Nadu Nutrition Project was IDA's fourth for a free-standing nutrition project,
and its first for nutrition in India. IDA's other credits for the human
resources sectors in India consist of one vocational training project and six
population projects, four of which are still under implementation, and each of
which contributes to strengthening maternal and child health services as well
as family planning.
1.22      IDA's principal nutrition objective is to assist India to adopt and
maintain cost-effective policies, strategies and programs to deal with
nutrition problems of pre-school children and pregnant and nursing women.
Over the longer term, a broader objective is to ensure that the benefits of
Indian food production, subsidy and income generating programs get directed as
much as possible toward those at greatest nutritional risk. The Bank's
strategy to achieve this objective consists of a blend of sector and project
work. Sector work to increase Bam.u and GOI knowledge about the magnitude and
location of pre-school malnutrition and their relationship to levels of
nutrition program funding and coverage Was undertaken as part of preparation
of the Bank's FY89 India Country Economic Memorandum. Over the longer term,
the Bank's sector work would focus on filling gaps in our and GOl's
understanding of critical variables affecting nutrition policies, strategies
and effective design, management and implementation of other intervention
programs with possible nutrition consequences.
1.23      Simultaneously with the preparation of the proposed second Tamil
Nadu project, the Bank collaborated with GOI and the states of Orissa and
Andhra Pradesh in the development of a first project to assist ICDS. The
focus of that project, which is proposed for FY91 Board presentation, would be
on improving the nutrition and health status of children under three years of
age, and of pregnant and nursing women in particularly disadvantaged,
especially tribal, areas of these states. Components would include expansion
of service delivery into new blocks, and in both new and existing blocks
improvement of training and supervision, communication and community
mobilization efforts, and monitoring and evaluation. A proposed Second ICDS
Project, currently under preparation for Board presentation in FY92, would
provide similar assistance to ICDS in similarly disadvantaged tribal areas of
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. It is hoped that policy dialogue building on both
project experiences and sector work would help the GaI and state governments
to set priorities for resource allocation to nutrition, to apply resources
effectively to where they are most needed, and to take nutrition concerns more
consciously into account in development efforts.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Goals and Objectives
2.01      The project seeks to improve the nutrition and health status of
children 0-72 moths, with particular emphasis on children 0-36 months, and
pregnant and nursing women. Its specific nutrition and health impact
objectives would be tot
(a) reduce severe malnutrition (grade III and IV) among chJldren 6-36
months by 50S and 252 in new and existing project areas,
respectively;
(b) increase the proportion of children 6-36 months of age in normal and
grade I nutrition status by 502 and 35? in new and existing project
areas, respectively, and
(c) contribute towards a reduction in IMR from around 84 to 55 per 1,000
live births and to a 5O0 reduction in the incidence of low birth
weight from present levels.
2.02      The project also would help to increase contraceptive prevalence
rates, although no specific project target has been set, by increasing the
availability of maternal-child health services which will create a stronger
tie between women cf child-bearing age and female family welfare workers, who
are also responsibl'4 for delivering both health and family planning services.
Moreover, improved child health and nutrition contribute to a favorable
climate for smaller family size. While ambitious, the project's quantifiable
objectives are considered feasible for the following reasons. First, TINP I
succeeded in reducing severe malnutrition by at least a third to a half (see
para 1.08) despite gaps in both community and health coverage, which the
proposed project would correct. New strategies in the proposed project (paras
2.06-2.10) would be expected to lead to a reduction in moderate malnourishment
as well; pre-testing of the proposed move to supplementary feeding of all
moderately malnourished children in one existing TINP I area already has shown
a reduction of over 20? in this grade of malnutrition for children aged 6-36
months. IMR reductions over six years from 84 per 1,000 live births would
require annual decreases of 5 per year, which has been achieved in both Kerala
and Karnataka and should be possible with improved maternal and child health
(MCH) services through the proposed project. Achievement of significant
reduction in the incidence of low birth weight is probably the most difficult
objective. Progress toward that goal will relate directly to the numbers of
at-risk pregnant women who receive early and complete nutrition
supplementation and iron deficiency therapy and prophylaxis. However, the
relatively advanced stage of Tamil Nadu's delivery systems and the high
priority proposed to be given to this feature of the proposed project may
permit achievement of the Government's target.
2.03      The above objectives would be achieved over six and a half years
through improved service delivery; enhancing nutrition and health capability
of mothers and communities; and promotion of community participation in the



- 9 -
project's nutrition, health, and educational activities. These intermediate
goals would be realized by:
(a) Increasing the coverage and quality of nutrition and health services
for pregnant and nursing wvmen and children 0-72 months of age;
(b) developing communication strategies and strengthening communication
activities through use oi print and other media and audio-visual
support materials;
(c) community education, including formation of new and strengthening of
existing women's groups; and
(d) refining and continuing to adapt suitable software systems for
training, supervision, work organization, and monitoring and
evaluation.
Specific process objectives for service and activity coverage are given in
annex 1.
D. Scope
2.04      The project would cover a total of 316 of Tamil Nadu's 385 rural
blocks. It would strengthen activities in 122 blocks where TINP already
operates. It would expand the upgraded TINP model to 194 additional blocks.
The remaining blocks would be covered by ICDS and would not be a part of this
project. In existing TINP blocks, about 6,400 CNCs would be strengthened and
amalgamated with the Nutritious Heals Centers (NMCs) already existing in those
villages. In the new blocks, and in about 202 of the villages in existing
blocks where there are gaps in the existing coverage of CNCs, a total of about
12,000 existing NMCs would be strengthened by addition of a new worker who
would provide TINP services to the under three children. And in about 2,200
villages in new and existing blocks which are currently covered by neither
TINP nor the noon meals program, new centers would be established with two
workers and a helper to provide both services. The health, communications and
community participation and monitoring and evaluation components would
establish or strengthen the respective services as appropriate in all 316
blocks. However, health component inputs in areas receiving DANIDA and UNICEF
assistance (para 1.20) would be limited to those not already being financed
from other sources.
C. Strategy
2.05      The proposed project would retain the most successful features of
TINP I, improve on others, add new elements and extend the enhanced package to
all of rural Tamil Nadu not covered by ICDS. The project would seek to expand
the range, increase the coverage, and improve the quality of both nutrition
and family welfare (i.e. maternal-child health and family planning) services
in the project areas. The main services to be provided to different target
groups would be as follows:
(a)    pregnant women--antenatal care, health and nutrition education,
and food supplementation for the malnourished;



- 10 -
(b)    nursing women--postnatal care, health and nutrition education,
including family planning education and food supplementation for
the malnourished;
(c)    children 6-36 months--growth monitoring, immunization. vitamin A
administration, deworming, acute respiratory infection
management, health check-ups, referral and rehabilitation, and
therapeutic nutrition supplementation;
(d)    children 37-72 months--growth monitoring, immunization, vitamin
A administration, deworming, acute respiratory infection
management, health check-ups, referral and rehabilitation, and
pre-school education and
(e)    all women and community leaders--nutrition and health education.
2.06      In addition, several changes to TINP I's strategy are proposed in
response to the evaluation findings summarized in paragraphs 1.11-13 above.
With regard to the problem of exclusion of beneficiaries, three approaches are
proposed. First, would be in-filling of uncovered areas with additional CNCs
(para 2.12). Second, would be redrawing of the boundaries of CNC areas so
that outlying hamlets are assigned to their nearest service center. Third,
would be operations research with different methods of service outreach to
outlying hamlets, such as use of mothers' groups in the hamlets to collect
supplementary food from the CNC, and to assist with child weighing and
nutrition and health education.
2.07      With regard to the problem of severely malnourished children who
fail to graduate from the feeding program, two approaches are proposed.
First, operations research would be carried out with new kinds of food
supplements--such as amylase enriched foods--which are less bulky or less
viscous than existing foods and therefore may allow severely malnourished
children to absorb more calories. Second, many of the severely malnoiirished
children remain so not only because their families are too poor to feed them
properly, but because they have health problems. The project would make a
systematic effort to upgrade health referral facilities through provision of
equipment, supplies and training in diagnostic techniques for doctors. It
also would experiment with the provision of transport cost payments to
referred patients so as to increase the frequency with which recommended
referrals are actually completed. The project would also experiment on a
small scale in one district with the development of 12-bedded MCH annexes
attached to block-level Community Health Centers. These would be simple
accommodations where women with high risk pregnancies could stay with a fanily
member while awaiting birth, and where mothers with severely malnourished
children could stay while the child was rehabilitated under the guidance of a
pediatrician.
2.08      Improved referral services would also help solve the problems of
some children who remain moderately malnourished or who relapse into
supplementary feeding after initial graduation. In addition, two innovations
will be made to deal specifically with these problems. First, the project



- 11 -
would place special emphasis on improving the health and nutrition status of
pregnant and nursing women, so as to reduce the incidence of low birth weight
and related infant malnutrition. This would be achieved by attempting to
identify pregnant women by the third month of pregnancy, and providing them
with a full range of ante-natal services, including iron supplementation and
food supplementation for women at high nutritional risk. Second, food
supplementation would be provided to all under-three children with moderate
malnutrition in addition to those, as at present, whose growth is faltering or
who have severe malnutrition. On-going operations research in a few TINP I
blocks suggests that this measure, while adding initially to recurrent costs,
should have a significant effect on moderate malnutrition. In view of the
importance of appropriate supplementation procedures to the success of the
project, assurances were received at negotiations that Tamil Nadu would by
January 1, 1991 adopt and apply beneficiary selection crizeria and methodology
mutually agreed to by Tamil Nadu and IDM, for provision of therapeutic
supplements to children under 36 months of age and for pregnant and lactating
women in the project area (para 5.01(a)).
2.09      With regard to the problems of health/nutrition service
coordination, five new measures are proposed In addition to those for referral
services described above. First, the state is in the process of carrying out
at its own initiative a structural reform of the state health and family
welfare and social welfare departments so that for the first time health and
nutrition workers at the field level would be under a single chain of command.
Second, a more appropriate division of tasks would be made between health and
nutrition field workers. Third, work routines would be revised so that both
workers and supervisors would spend more time in the field together (para
2.22). Fourth, maternal and child health records would be kept at the CNC
rather than, as at present, at the higher level health facility, giving health
workers an added incentive to center their outreach efforts on the CNC.
Finally, health and nutri'.ion field workers would be given twice-annual
refresher training jointly, instead of separately as at present, a move which
should improve teamwork as well as technical skills. A detailed draft
strategy for ImprovAng health/nutrition coordination is given in Annex 3.
2.10      Measures are also proposed to improve the quality of project
evaluation, and to increase project responsiveness to monitoring and
evaluation findings, and to communities' felt needs. The project would
strengthen the state's Department of Evaluation and Applied Research (para
2.34). In addition to a formal midterm project review, project management and
IDA would carry out a detailed annual review of project progress, and ensure
that mid-course corrections would be built as appropriate into the work plan
for the subsequent year (para 3.11). Regular qualitative surveys of project
clients would be carried out under the communication component (para 2.27),
and the project would attempt to strengthen village women's groups to take on
more responsibility for planning local initiatives for health and nutrition
improvement (para 2.28).
D. Prolect Description
2.11      The project would consist of the following components, as described
belows  service deliveryg commnications and community participation;
training; monitoring and evaluation; and project management.



- 12 -
Service Delivery (US$127.7 million)
2.12      The project would support upgrading, integration and expansion of
village level nutrition services; improvements in tuerapeutic food
supplementation strategies; in work organization and supervision: and in
health-nutrition collaboration; strengthening of the referral and nutritional
rehabilitation systems; and the introduction of pre-school education services.
Annex 2 provides a description of TIMP I's main services, achievements and
problems and how these  ill change under the proposed project.
2.13      Village Level Services.  Combined CNCs and NHC9 would be the focal
point of village nutritiok and health services, and for the first time would
also provide pre-school services for 37-72 month olds, along the lines of
those provided by the ICDS program. Each center would be staffed by two
locally recruited nutrition workers plus one female helper. The project would
finance furniture and equipment and incremental operating costs for salaries,
drugs, therapeutic food, building maintenance and consumable items such as
record-keeping forms of upgrading existing NMP centers to CNCs in non-TINP
areas, of integrating them where both centers now exist, and of establishing
new centers to fill coverage gaps of both services.
2.14      More than a quarter of existing CNCs, all of which are currently in
rental accommodation, are too small or otherwise unsuitable for their purpose.
The project would therefore finance incremental rent for better accommodation
for existing CNCs, as well as rent for all new CNCs. The project also would
finance construction, furnishing and equipping of about 500 new CNCs, with a
floor area of 500-600 square feet, in villages where suitable rented
accommodation cannot be found. Additional CNCs may be constructed if the need
is found during implementation, and experience in the early years of the
project indicates that construction capacity is adequate.
2.15      The project would provide additional MCH drugs for acute respiratory
infections, referrals from CNCs, deworming, and vitamin A supplementation.
Standard drug and medical supply kits will be developed for use at CNCs,
Health Sub-Centers (HSCs) and Primary Health Centers (PHCs). A manual for
diagnosis and treatment for common mother/child ailments and nutritional
disorders would also be developed. As described in paragraph 2.23, the
project would emphasize referrals from CNCs to higher levels of the health
system and would support provision of necessary equipment at Health Sub-
Centers, Primary Health Centers and Comunity Health Centers.
2.16      Therapeutic Nutrition Supplementation.  Nutritional surveillance
would be used for pregnant women and children under three years of age for
nutrition education, and, if necessary, for entry into the therapeutic food
supplementation program. Recent Indian research indicates that regular
therapeutic supplementation for about 180 days during the pregnancy of at-risk
women can increase infants' birth weights by an average of 230 gms., thereby
reducing the risk of low birth weight (less than 2.5 kg) by at least a third.
Therefore, the project would finance therapeutic supplementary food for such
women from the 20th week of pregnancy up to six months after delivery. Post-
natal supplementation would help ensure adequacy of breast milk during the
critical early months of infancy. As noted above, the project would also



- 13 -
finance supplementation for children under three years of age who are grade II
or below until they are able to maintain normal or grade I status for at least
three successive monthly weighings. In addition, growth falteriag criteria
would continue to be used for entry into supplementation. Children aged 3-6
years will continue to receive a noon meal as part of the e3tablished pre-
school package, funded outside the project.
2.17      In TINP, the supplementary food provided for the under threes is a
ready-to-eat pulse/cereal mix procured from three sources. Karnataka State
Agro Corn Products Limited supplies about three-fourths of the requirements
from its food processing plant. ADout 20 Women's Food Cooperative Societies
have recently begun production of the supplement. In addition, more than 300
Women"s Working Groups produce supplement for use in the surrounding CNCs.
Production by local women has had the benefit not only of providing employment
but also nutrition education. However, problems emerged under TINP with
maintaining the quality of the food and its accountability, and the state
therefore proposes to procure incremental food for the second project from
factory production. Work is under way to develop a new supplement more
suitable for severely malnourished children (para 2.07). In view of the
importance of this to the success of the project, assurances were received at
negotiations that by January 1, 1991, Tamil Nadu will provide in the project
area and thereafter maintain provision of therapeutic food supplements whose
composition is satisfactory to IDA (para 5.01 (b)).
2.18      Work organization and supervision.  The wide range of services
envisaged in the project requires a team effort of health and nutrition staff.
The allocation of duties and enabling work routines have been developed and
were reviewed at appraisal. They would be tested during the first year of the
project in one district and implemented in all project areas after necessary
modifications. In general, the CNW would be responsible for registration of
pregnant women, iron supplementation, nutritional surveillance of pregnant
women and children 0-36 months of age, therapeutic nutritional
supplementation, administration of vitamin A, and health referral of
malnourished children and severe acute respiratory infection cases. In
addition she will assist in counselling for birth spacing and immunization.
Village health nurses would provide antenatal and postr tal care,
immunizations, family planning services, health check ups, and if necessary,
refer children to higher levels of the health system. Traditional Birth
Attendants would provide quality natal care and motivation for family
planning. While essential elements of the service delivery strategy, changes
in work organization would be introduced to staff through routine in-service
training, and have no additional financial implications for the service
delivery component.
2.19      Supervision is critical for ensuring consistent, high quality
services; for promoting community mobilization; and for ensuring effective
coordination with the health services. Supervisors provide necessary guidance
to village-based staff on a day-to-day basis, conduct in-service training,
hold sector meetings to monitor performance and resolve problems, liaise with
the health staff, and promote involvement of women's working groups and other
influential community members. As at present, a supervisor would provide
support to 15 CNCs and a Community Putrition Instructress (CNI) at the block
level would supervise the supervisors and support CNWs, wherever necessary.



- 14 -
The Community Health Nurse and Medical Officer (MCH) at the community health
center would be responsible for health services at the block level (see Annex
3 and Chart 2). Block level coordination between the health and nutrition
sectors would be achieved through Block Project Officers who would be
responsible for project services in the block. At the district level, the
District lmmunization Officer would oversee project activities and would be
supported by a District Project Nutrition Officer, a Public Health Nurse, a
District Child officer, a statistician and other staff.
2.20      For nutrition staff supervision, the project would support
investmentlincremental operating costs as appropriate for equipment and
furniture; and for salaries, rent, utilities and consumables of 194 block
project offices and 14 district offices. It would also finance the costs of
additional staff needed to provide a supervisor for 15 CNCs. The project
would finance one four wheel drive diesel vehicle in each project block, which
would be available both for supervisory visits by health and nutrition staff,
and for the transport of urgent referral cases (para 2.28); and mopeds and
bicycles for staff willing to buy these on a hire purchase basis to increase
their mobility.
2.21      Training.  Training would be a key instrument for ensuring quality
services, creating and maintaining staff motivation, and improving their
communication and community mobilization skills. The project would finance
the costs of four different types of training; pre-service for new staff,
orientation training for existing staff in the project areas, regular in-
service training, and problem solving workshops. All training for staff below
the block level would be carried out at the block, rather than at more distant
training institutions. But training would be carried out at the block not
just by the CNI as in the first project, but by a training team consisting of
the CNI, the Community Health Nurse, the Block Extension Educator and the
Block Health Supervisor. As well as ensuring that nutrition staff learn
necessary health skills and vice versa, training by joint teams of health and
nutrition supervisors will help stimulate coordination and teamwork in the
block.
2.22      Newly recruited nutrition workers at the CNC level would receive
eight weeks' pre-service training, of which the last week would be joint
training with the local VHN. CNWs in existing TINP areas would receive a
week's orientation training in the new priorities for the second project. All
these workers would receive a week's in-service training every six months
jointly with their VHN, beginning in year two of the project. Helpers would
receive a week's training in the first project year, with a two day refresher
each year thereafter. The block training team would also be responsible for
training community groups; it is planned that 40 women, adolescent girls and
community leaders in each village would receive a two day training annually.
The VHN and her supervisor would organize refresher training at the block once
in three years for Traditional Birth Attendants, for whom there is currently
no refresher training program.
2.23      Pre-service training for newly recruited Community Nutrition
Supervisors would take place at four regional training institutionst
Gandhigram, Laksbmi Training College, Sri Avinashilingam College and Christian
Medical College, Vellore. This would last eight weeks, and would be followed



- 15 -
by a week's joint training in the field with their health supervisor
counterparts, who are already in place. In-service training would consist of
a week's joint training every six months, carried out by the block training
team. Newly recruited CNIe would receive a month's pro-service training at
the Communications and Training Center (see para 2.33). To prepare the block
training teams, each team as a group would receive one month's training in one
of the existing regional training centers in the state, and a week's in-
service training annually at the same institutions. Curricula for trainer
training are being developed as a pre-project activity.
2.24      At the managerial level, Block Project Officers would receive a two
week institution-based training in project management. Doctors at the block
level would receive a two or three day workshop-type training on the project,
with special reference to its referral needs, given by district staff at the
district level. District Project Officers, District Nutrition Officers,
District Communication Officers and Statistical Inspectors all would receive
specialized orientation training in their particular responsibilities. In-
service training for district level staff would consist of a yearly joint week
long workshop, which would focus on review, problem-solving and planning
activities. Details of training plans are given in Annex 5.
2.25      With service delivery expansion through the proposed project to
almost the whole of Tamil Nadu, training loads will sharply increase, as will
the importance of carefully planning, monitoring and evaluating the training
program as a whole. The project would therefore finance an expansion of the
role of the Communications and Training Center established under TINP I (para
2.26) s0 as to make it an apex institution for both communications and
training activities. In addition to incremental staff, equipment and
operating costs for the new training wing of the institution, the project
would finance construction of an additional floor for the building, which is
situated in a suburb of Madras. The additional space would be used as hostel
accommodation for the supervisors and managers who would receive short term
training under the proposed project at the Communication and Training Center.
2.26      Health-Nutrition Coordination. As nutrition and health services
have synergistic impact, they need to be delivered in a coordinated manner.
Despite coordination committees and other functional linkages, health-
nutrition coordination in TINP remained unsatisfactory (para 1.12). If VHRNs
receive more support from CNWs, they will more easily achieve their antenatal
care, immunization and family planning goals.  If CNWs receive more support
from Village Health Nurses (VHNs), they will be able to do more for children
who are malnourished as well as have health problems. Although closer
collaboration would benefit both health and nutrition systems, this has not
been perceived as an opportunity. Also there are other difficulties. The work
routines of both workers reflect their own priorities and are not
synchronized. Joint tour plans of supervisors are difficult to implement as
their work areas and supervisory needs may not always coincide. A more
comprehensive approach, going beyond the traditional approach of coordination,
is needed for the workers to collaborate at the village level.
2.27      Better cooperation between departments will partly be achieved by
structural reform (para 2.09). A series of process-oriented measures would
also be taken. Agreement would be sought between the Departments of Health



- 16 -
and Social Welfare on a clear allocation of responsibilities. assignment of
priorities, monitoring procedures and work routines. The current monthly work
routines of health functionaries do not take maximum advantage of CNWs' close
contact with the clients. Specific days need to be set aside for the CNW and
YHN to work together. Joint planning, joint training and joint supervision
all can motivate workers to collaborate. Formats and procedures would be
developed for joint planning at district, block and sector levels, and
specific days may also be set aside for joint supervision by nutrition and
health supervisors. With the exception of joint training, these process-
oriented measures for health-nutrition collaboration do not require
significant financial outlays. During negotiations assurances were received
that by January 1, 1990, Tamil Nadu will introduce and thereafter maintain
arrangements agreed to by IDA and Tamil Nadu for coordination between health
and nutrition services in project areas (para 5.01 (c)).
2.28      Strengthening the Referral System.  Neither TIN? ncr ICDS has yet
been able to develop effective arrangements for health referrAls. During the
first two years of the project, operations research on how best to strengthen
the health referral system would be undertaken in Madurai diPrict, one of the
original TINP districts with an established nutrition infrast.-ucture. The
project would finance the establishment of 11 MCH annexes at Community Health
Centers for care of at risk pregnant women and severely malnourished children
(para 2.07). In addition, the project would finance construction and
equipment of 12 new Primary Health Centers in the same district, so that
experiments with revised referral procedures can take place unhampered by gaps
in the infrastructure network (staff are already in place for these Primary
Health Centers, but are working in unsatisfactory rented quarters). If a
successful system can be developed, the same approach would be replicated in
other districts. Funds have been included in the project for additional
equipment and drugs for Health Sub-centers and Primary Health Centers in the
project area to meet the expected increased demand for services from referral
cases. Assurances were received at negotiations that Tamil Nadu will by
September 30, 1991 undertake and complete operations research on the efficacy
of different approaches to strengthening obstetrical and child nutritional
risk management at referral facilities in Madurai district, the operations
research to be conducted according to terms of reference agreed to by the IDA
and Tamil Nadu (para 5.01 (d)).
2.29      Pre-school Education.  Pre-school education is provided to 37-72
month olds in ICDS but not in TINP or NMP centers in Tamil Nadu. While having
only collateral nutritional or health consequences, regular attendance at pre-
school can both stimulate the mental and emotional development of the child
and increase the chances that parents will later send their children for
formal schooling. Since workers are in place and 37-72 month old children are
already caming on a daily basis to NVW centers throughout Tamil Nadu, the
additional cost of providing pre-school services at the centers is minimal.
The project would introduce pre-school education Into all integrated CCs/NsMCs
in the project areas, an4 apgrade its quality. A manual for a theme-based
approach to learning has been developed by an NGO and successfully tested.
The project would provide these manuals to all the CNCs. There is also a high
degree of consensus that a more interactive, participatory approach should be
used in pre-school education, based oan the principle of guided learning
through active experience in which Individuals are helped to construct their



- 17 -
own knowledge. This approach would be emphasized in project-financed pre-
service and in-service training of workers and supervisors. In addition, the
project through its communication activities would improve the capacity of
parents and other care givers for providing a stimulating environment at home.
Thus actions to improve quality of pre-school education would be an integral
part of the training and communication and community participation components
of the project.
S. Communication and Community Particigation Activities (US$3.5 million)
2.30      TINP I succeeded in reducing severe malnutrition partly because its
communication activities increased community understanding of services
provided and promoted their involvement, especially through the Women's
Working Groups (WWGs) created in each project village. The proposed second
project would continue to provide support to comprehensive communications and
community participation activities. Broadly, the component would aim to
stimulate demand for project services, alter household child feeding and child
care practices, motivate village level workers by enhancing their image and
credibility within the community, and promote community involvement. The
component would include support for community education, audio-visual
materials to support nutrition education activities of workers and community
groups, fonmative research, and monitoring and evaluatior. (see Annex 6 for
details).
2.31      TINP I's communication activities were extremely successful in terms
of creating awareness and acceptance of project services, and in creating
v en's Working Groups supportive of the project in every project village.
However, the project's impact on households' nutrition and health behavior was
variable. Therefore, TINP II's communications strategy would focus
particularly on reaching household and community decision-makers, both through
interpersonal and mass media methods of communication. As an extensive
network of theaters already exists and most villages have community video
players, the project would support development and distribution of films and
video cassettes. It would also support production of a news bulletin for
workers, and flash cards, posters, and flip charts for use by program staff
and WWGs. The project would develop the instituLional support for the
communications program by financing salaries and other operating costs of the
Communications and Training Center, constructed in the final year of TINP 1 as
a state level apex institution for the planning, monitoring and evaluation of
nutrition communications programs.
2.32      For effective communications, the messages and materials produced
should be relevant and of high quality. Social marketing approaches involving
qualitative research and other proven design techniques from commercial
marketing would be utilized for developing relevant and effective
communications content, structure, materials, and media-mix. The materials
would be extensively pre-tested for their efficacy before large-scale
production. In addition, the project would support formative and summative
evaluation of the communication activities to continually refine them.
2.33      The project's community mobilization activities would aim not only
at ensuring that communities utilize the services provided, but also to enable
community representatives and nutritionihealth staff to jointly study local



- 18 -
child health and nutrition problems, pool knowledge and resources, and take
actions to resolve them. Nutrition workers would therefore be trained to
involve WWGs more actively in planning local project activities and solving
local implementation problemc, with the goal of increasing individual and
community self-reliance. WG members would also be trained to take a more
proactive role in spreading their nutrition and health care knowledge, found
to be high by the TINP evaluations, through the broader community.
F. Project Management and Evaluation (US $7.4 million)
2.34.     TINP I was managed on a day-to-day basis from a Project Coordination
Office, headed by a Project Coordinator (an Indian Administrative Service
officer holding the rank of Head of Department), assisted by a Joint Director
(Communications) and an Assistant Director (Monitoring and Evaluation). For
TINP II, this structure would be modified in two ways. First, coordination of
the proiect with the work of the Department of Health would be facilitated by
appointment of a Joint Project Coordinator of the rank of Joint Director in
the Department of Public Health. Second, in v_nw of the geographic expansion
of project activities, the project office would be strengthened by appointment
of Joint Coordinators for Nutrition; Operations Research and Monitoring;
Training; and Communications. These officers would be responsible for their
respective subject areas, with the last two having responsibility also for the
respective wings of the Communications and Training Center. Chart 2 shows the
proposed organizational structure of the project office.
2.35      The Project Coordinator would report to the Director cf Social
Welfare and have the necessary authority to implement day-to-day project
activities. An Empowered Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary and
comprising the key development secretaries, including health and social
welfare, was constituted for TINP1 to approve plans, issue necessary
government sanctions for implementation, and monitor progress; this committee
would continue to oversee and assist the proposed second project. The project
coordinator would be member-secretary of the Empowered Committee. The project
would finance salaries and other operating costs of the Project Coordination
Office and a fund for innovative activities. As in TINPI, the project would
fund innovative activities through the Project Coordinator's office, mainly to
test new interventions or program design modifications. Assurances were
received at negotiationu that Tamil Nadu will (a) prior to undertaking
innovative studies, operations research and activities, furnish terms of
reference, work plans and proposed budgets for them satisfactory to IDA; and
(b) discuss the results of the innovative studies, operations research and
activities with IDA (para 5.01 (e)).
G. Monitorint and Evaluation
2.36      Coverage by various services and provision of project inputs would
be monitored regularly. The current TINP monitoring system would be refined
and adapted for the whole of Tamil Nadu. One change in the existing
monitoring strategy would be a reduction in both the numbers of registers kept
at CNCs and the numbers of indicators used for monitoring. Another important
change would be the decentralization of routine monitoring and feedback from
the state to the district level, with the state level concentrating more on
overall program progress, operations research requirements and mid-course



- 19 -
adjustments to project strategy. Further details of proposed monitoring and
evaluation arrangements appear in Annex 7. The project would finance an
additional vehicle and equipment plus salary and operating costs of the
monitoring and operations research cell in the Project Coordination Office
(see para 2.37)5 operations research activitiess computers for data analysis
at the district level; and training for staff at state and central level
responsible for project monitoring.
2.37      In order to improve project evaluation capacity, the project would
finance strengthening of Tamil Nadu's Department of Evaluation and Applied
Research (DEAR), the independent go ernment agency responsible for the
evaluation of TINP I. This would involve support for additional furniture and
equipment, staff, trainlag. transportation and other operating costs for
DE&R's head office in Madras, and establishment of small regional offices at
Salam, Madurai and Trichy. A Technical Advisory 04mmittee would be set up to
ensure that the best available expertise goes into the design of project
evaluation, and the project would finance consultant assistance to develop the
methodology for the proposed baseline and other surveys.
2.38      Assurances were received at negotiations that Tamil Nadu, in
consultation with GOI and IDA, and in accordance with terms of reference and
methodology satisfactory to IDA, undertake and complete (a) collection of
baseline survey data in each Health Unit District In the project area before
the commencement of project-financed servica delivery activities in that
Health Unit District; (b) by December 31, 1993 a mid-term review and
evaluation of the progress of the projects and (c) by September 30, 1997 a
final review and evaluation of the project (para 5.01 (f)). The mid-term
evaluation, while reviewing all project activities, would pay special
attention to (a) the new supplementation approaches being adopted under the
project; (b) the revised referral procedures and the MCl annex system being
tested in Madurai district; and (c) the new arrangements for health/nutrition
coordination. After completion of the terminal evaluation and before the
project closing date, Tamil Nadu would hold a national level workshop to
discuss the lessons learned from the project.



- 20 -
tII. PlAhRC? COSTM. FiNMC=   ND                              U
A. Cost Istmates
3.01            Cost Sumaries.  The total cost of the project, net of duties and
taxes, is estimated at about Rs. 3,135 million or US$134.1 million equivalent.
Duties and taxes are around US$5.0 million. A breakdown of costs of the
proposed project by component and categories of expenditure appears in tables
3.1 and 3.2 respectively. Detailed project costs by component, categories of
expenditures and year appear in Annex B.
Table 3.t C         C hr  C n
C-  'cm
A. _ =        W            _                                                                  TO" I     Cost
Nutrition                       1,614.86    161.7"   1 .4.151       89,0W       1,99    91.009
H"lt%                             442.097     0.211     51IU2097     20.019     4.071    80,120
Training                                                .-DLK  1-                  -        
"S. 0866141ATW                         83. no-1   466        89.919      5.0          278      8.9           8
Project Coordination Mice          44.151        on a      4.74        4.            7      4.W7
e_iotial & Training Catr            17,15      1.080      16.200       1. 00        6       1.071         1
#ta}n itrn  S Susuaie        1      3a       2J8    .J                L            41      ..M*.
Sub l.           1411 1ii1i            Man        2.512    I3.66         7.2s7        146      7.484         a
Total tStM     CStS t2.20.18                    114.706   2.387.9111    181.60      8.714   1I7016         1t00
Continan..e                           '61.654 'W
TOTAL FROJWr C07                                          8.218S                             1J9.0,
Table 8.2: C     h  C     _ie ef _edltur.
- i                              n.m0 *aaml  N_o r
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oa _        i-i_         io       Ttdl          ie.      F.ral..    Toa        Ca
I. DWMWI coT
A. Civil Works                        49.091     6.059      560.0       2.664        836      8.240         2
9. 14mrsiture                         06.224     9.M2      102.44       8.464        5424     8.01          4
C. isquipsont                        11.8       1l.U       126.974      6.578        on       7.'f '        8
3.Dray.                              162.684    48S6         6.818      10.744     2.666     1J.4..        10
it:E r.#.Win                                     7.486      86.1.5      4,481   U 40          4,69          4
P. Training                          166.81      8717    114 au5        $.86         8        6.7126        81
0. Ibteial                           41,111     2I1'.       4$7M4       2.446        12      2.872        2
. Conewltt                             1.010         -       1.oe o9                   -         o          0
.Studies *ad Research                *.Su                  2.6W          186                  is186
t:.Prjeot Neoae.et Fund
Subtotl                                ,SR        ;        a,            ,T          ;          .0
tlDROWL  CBDSe  I IWt
A. 1salries                          (17.641         -      t17.641    86.1a           -    8 6            26
S.   taobs                             I        12.01       "47         8.047        72       8'o9          8
C. R..t                                1.417     4.090      67.667      4.907        266      5.165         4
D. Nenteneac                                      ?7        14.181        7U0         42        Sal         I
F. Utiities                                        289       6.104        290         is        80s         0
F. Petrol Oil LUAbriesat             48.0,       4,477      48.709      2l2          267      2.68          2
0. Oter Oerating Cast                   6           45         90         'so          a       'a           0
H. Therapeutie Nbtrition       _        .ZI    .....      7ML314        4LI  _        ..?   4dLZd           U
Subtota                            1,1517.011    2.126   1.40.264      09,216      1.867    90.608         Oa
TOTAL a11LNI c5                    2.046.157    11.794    2.   t       131.960     6.711   1s870s         100
Conti ngsies                                                                 a                    a
TOTAL     t i 6m                                         3.118.6S0             s       w       .06        100



- 21 -
3.02      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works of Rs.
180-200 per square foot are based on current unit costs of designs for similar
types of facilities. They are comparable to the costs of similar IDA-assisted
construction in India. Costs of therapeutic supplementation and other
consumables are based on state estimates and reflect current prices.
Estimated costs for incremental staff salaries and other operating costs are
based on current pay scales and norms used by the Government of Tamil Nadu.
3.03      Taxes and Duties.  All imported goods are subject to Customs duties
and taxes. The cost of the project includes customs duties and taxes estimated
at about US$5.0 million.
3.04      Contingency Allowances.  Estimated project costs include ph)Ocal
contingencies (US$5.1 million) estimated at 5 on goods and civil works. For
locally produced items, price contingencies are estimated at 72 for FY91 and
FY92; 6.62 for FY93; 6.52 for FY94 and FY95, and 6.12 thereafter. For foreign
produced items, price contingencies are estimated at 4.9Z for the first five
years of the project and 3.72 for the final year.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of US $7.1 million is calculated on the basis of the following
estimates: (a) civil works, 11X; (b) furniture, 9X; (c) locally-produced
equipment, vehicles and consumable materials (including drugs)--122, 92 and
201, respectively; (d) operation and maintenance of vehicles, 1O2; and
(e) other operation and maintenance costs and costs of training, 52.
B. Financing Plans
3.06      The estimated total project cost of US$139.1 million would be
financed by an IDA credit of US$95.8 million equivalent, which would cover
about 71 percent of costs net of duties and taxes. Tamil Nadu would finance
US$ 43.3 million equivalent to cover the remaining project costs, including
all rents and utilities. Cost recovery from user charges is not considered
feasible in view of the poverty of most project beneficiaries. The financing
plan is given in table 3.3.
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
Costs including taxes and duties
-US$ million---------
Local       Foreign    Total          I
IDAs                   87.4          8.4        95.8         69
GOTN:                  43.3            -        43.3         31
TOTAL                 130.7          8.4       139.1        100



- 22 -
C. Recurrent Cost Implications
3.07      When fully operational in 1996, the project's annual recurrent costs
would be about Rs. 396 million in 1990 prices, about 202 of current
expenditures on nutrition programs in Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu's real social
welfare expenditures would have to grow at 3Z per year for the nutrition part
of the project to be sustainable. Its real social welfare expenditures have
grown at over 7Z annually in recent years. Whether the state could sustain
that growth rate over the long-term is uncertain, but a 32 yearly growth
scenario for social welfare could be accepted as a reasonable lower bound.
Under those assumptions, the project would imply an addition to the state's
nutrition budget just equal to the estimated recurrent costs of the project in
1996. That level of additional expenditure appears feasible, particularly in
light of Tamil Nadu's commitment to the project and that, by 1996, the state
would have achieved good coverage of its vulnerable groups. TINP and ICDS
would have blanketed rural Tamil Nadu with a child development program; ICDS
and NMP already cover the poorest urban areas. About 30Z of the incremental
costs of the project are for therapeutic supplementation; as community
capability Increases and levels of malnutrition decline, these costs should
continue to fall, as experienced in TINP I areas, thus reducing the long term
recurrent cost burden. Based on TINP I results, costs of therapeutic nutrition
supplementation would fall by around 142, for example, between 1996-98 in
those CNCs which got set up in 1995. Given Tamil Nadu's high priority for full
coverage of the most vulnerable population groups with nutrition services, the
long-term recurrent costs of the project are sustainable and reasonable.
D. Proiect Implementation
3.08      Preparation Process and Status of Preparation.  By the end of the
appraisal mission, clear strategies had been developed for responding to the
design and implementation problems identified in the evaluation of TINP I,
together with a phased implementation plan for the new project. Plans to
strengthen staffing of the project office had been drawn up, and the
recruitment process was planned to be under way before project negotiations.
A detailed training plan for pre-service, orientation and refresher training
under the project had been prepared, as had a broad strategy for the
communications component. Work on training curriculum development was planned
to start before project negotiations. Architectural designs for the proposed
additional storey to be added to the Communication and Training Center (para
2.33) had been completed and furnished to the Bank for approval. The proposed
project appears to be neutral with respect to effects on the environment.
Therefore no special environmental assessment was undertaken.
3.09      So that the project can start promptly, the state government plans
to carry out the following activities over the next few months: ti) baseline
epidemiological and nutrition status surveys in the first project areas to be
developed; (ii) redrawing of the boundaries of existing CNCs and definition of
CNC boundaries in Phase 1 new blocks so as to minimize beneficiary exclusion
and to align with Health Sub-center boundaries; (iii) training of trainers;
(iv) preparation of a detailed communication strategy based on qualitative
surveys of project clients; and (v) preparation of designs for low-cost
construction of CNCs.



- 23 -
3.10      Project Implementation.  Since this would be a state rather than
Centrally-financed project, the Tamdl Nadu Ministry of Social Welfare would
have implementation responsibility, under the overall guidance of the
Empowered Comimttee (para 2.35)   The state has Included adequate funds in its
1990191 fiscal year budget to allow a prompt start to project activities to be
made. The structural arrangements for management of different project
activities are set out in paragraph 2.34 and Chart 2, and the steps taken to
ensure cooperation between nutrition and health departments In paragraph 2.09.
The role of community groups in project implementation is described in
paragraph 2.33. A project implementation schedule appears in Annex 9.
3,11      Monitoring and Evaluation. Arrangements for monitoring program
activities appear in paragraph 2.36. Project monitoring in Tamil Nadu would
be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator, and hence of the Department
of Social Welfare. Assurances were received at negotiations that Tamil Nadu
will furnish to IDA for review and discussion (i) quarterly and annual
progress reports within three months of the relevant implementation period and
(ii) a prospective annual work plan by January 31 of each year for the
succeeding Indian fiscal year (para 5.01 (g)). These reports and plans would
cover all project components with particular attention to training, staffing.
service coverage, construction, food supplement availability and offtake,
operations research and comunication activities, and would be in a format
satisfactory to IDA. Arrangements for project evaluation and related
assurances appear in paragraphs 2.37-38. The Borrower would prepare a Project
Completion Report within six months of the credit closing date.
E. Disbursements
3.12      Disbursement Percentages.  The project would disburse against 1001
of CIF and of es-factory cost or 80S of other local expenditures on furniture,
equipment, drugs and medicines, books and materials, 901 of the cost of civil
works, consultants' services and training, 65Z of the cost of vehicles, and
602 of the costs of therapeutic nutrition supplementation and other
incremental operating costs. These other incremental operating costs comprise
salaries of new staff to be added as project services intensify and expand,
and additional supplies and vehicle operating costs and maintenance. The
percentage of incremental operating costs to be financed by the Bank is
equivalent to full financing in the first year they are incurred, reduced by
around 251 in each succeeding project year. (See Annex 10 for details).
3.13      Required Documentation. Disbursements in respect of  expenditures,
under contracts for civil works, furniture. equipment, vehicles. drugs.
medicines, therapeutir nutrition supplements, consultant services and training
estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent would be made against
statements of expenditure certified by the Tamil Nadu Department of Social
Welfare and Project Coordinator. Documents would be retained by the state
government for review by IDA during the course of supervision missions. All
other disbursements would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications.
3.14      Special Account. In order to accelerate disbursements in respect
IDA's share of expenditures pre-financed by GOI and the State of Tamil Nadu,
and in order to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and foreign
expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India



- 24 -
with an authorized allocation of US$4 million equivalent to cover four months'
expected requirements for IDA-financed items.
3.15      Retroactive Financing. Up to US$1.3 million is recommended to cover
eligible expenditures incurred in Implementing appraised project activities
after September 30, 1989, and the expected date of loan and credit signing,
around the end of September. 1990 (see para 3 09 for proposed activities).
3.16      Disbursement Profile. The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
over a seven and a half year period. This is a someshat shorter period than
the IDA disbursement profile for India or for the nutrition sub-sector as a
whole. However, it is realistic because (a) strong and experienced
institutions are in place to implement the project; (b) the proposed project
follows a first operation in which project activities were Implemented fully
with minimal delays; and (c) most of the new blocks would be established and
civil works would be completed in the first three years of project operation.
The project period therefore encompasses not only the time required to cover
new areas but also includes a lengthy operational period during which the
impact of expanded service coverage, improved quality of services and
supplementation procedures, and communication, community mobilization and
training would have significant impact on nutrition and health status of the
project's key beneficiary groups. The project is expected to be completed by
March 31, 1997 and the credit closed on December 31, 1997, permitting time for
final evaluation at the completion of project operations. A forecast of annual
expenditures and disbursements is shown in Annex 11.
F. Procurement
3.17      Project-related procurement would be managed by the Project
Coordination Office, following procedures laid down by the Governments of
India and Tamil Nadu, and accepted by IDA. Project-financed consultants would
be selected according to the procedures in the Bank's Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.
Proposed procurement methods by category of project expenditure are summarized
in table 3.4.
3.18      Civil Works (USS3.1 million).  The main civil works in the project
consist of about 500 new Community Nutrition Centers costing less than the
equivalent of US$6,000 each. These are small widely dispersed buildings for
which neither foreign firms nor domestic contractors are expected to be
interested in competing for construction. This work would therefore be
carried out by force account. Construction work on the new floor for the
Commnications and Training Center (para 2.33), 12 Primary Health Centers and
the 11 experimental MCI annexes (para 2.23), which together totals less than
US$1.0 million, would be let through LCB procedures, which are satisfactory to
TDA, since the work is too smll to be of international interest.
3.19      Drugs (US$14.2 million) contracts would be bulked insofar as
possible into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more
and awarded through international competitive bidding (ICI). For drugs
procured under ICB, local manufacturers would be afforded a domestic
preference of 15 or the prevailing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Procurement under ICB would be subject to prior IDA review and approval.
Drugs valued at US$50,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate total of



- 25 -
US$3.0 million over the project implementation period could be procured
through prudent local shopping, with solicitation of price quotations from at
least three suppliers.
3.20      Equipment (US$7.5 million) would be procured on an annual basis in
accordance with the phasing of project activities. It would be mainly of three
typess utensils and other minor items for Community Nutrition Centers,
typewriters and other office equipment for block and higher-level nutrition
offices, and equipment for health facilities. Because of the phasing and
diversity of items to be procured, they are not suitable for ICB and it is not
expected that any individual contract would approach US$200,000 equivalent.
Therefore, equipment contracts would be awarded through LCB. Equipment valued
at US$50,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate total of US$2.0 million
over the project implementation period could be procured through prudent local
shopping.
3.21      Furniture (US$6.0 million) would be procured through a combination
of LCB and prudent shopping. Furniture is readily available from local
manufacturers and foreign firms are unlikely to bid. Furniture orders would be
bulked to the extent possible in packages of more than US$200,000 equivalent
for LCB procurement. Contracts for furniture estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$50,000 may be awarded on the basis of prudent local shopping.
Since most furniture will be of simple construction and bought and installed
in remote rural areas, around 702 of furniture probably would be procured
through prudent local shopping.
3.22      Four-wheel drive vehicles, mopeds and bicycles (US$4.9 million), for
for use in rural project areas, would be procured in multiple lots of less
than US$50,000 since purchases would have to be phased at the rate at which
new blocks come on stream and existing assets need replacement over the
project's six and a half year life. In addition, there is currently only one
domestic supplier for the diesel four wheel drive vehicles which are required
for project purposes, and the vehicle maintenance system in rural areas is
geared to the existing standardized fleet of these vehicles. Competitive
bidding would not be practicable under these circumstances. Vehicles would
therefore be procured under prudent shopping procedures.
3.23      Procurement of therapeutic nutritious food supplements (US$41.1
million) would be shifted mainly to LCB, thereby encouraging the development
of food processing and marketing systems. LCB is appropriate because
international suppliers are unlikely to be able to provide the supplementation
formula to rural areas in a timely way and rapid supplier response to shifting
demand patterns is essential since, even with the best planning, unforeseeable
seasonal or other variations are likely. To encourage experimentation with
production through women's cooperatives and other community-based systems,
contracts for therapeutic nutritious food supplements valued at less than the
equivalent of US$50,000 may be awarded on the basis of prudent local shopping
up to the equivalent of US$5.0 million during the project implementation
period. Direct contracting up to a total of US$5.0 million equivalent also
would be permitted during Tamil Nadu's transition to LC8 from its present
reliance on single-source procurement from the state-owned Agro-Industries
Corporation in neighboring Karnataka.
3.24      Contr.acts for consultant services and for specific studies would be
awarded according to IDA guidelines and would be subject to prior IDA review



_ 26 -
and approval if the cost exceeds US$20,000. Contracts for civil works,
therapeutic nutritious food supplements, equipment, furniture and vehicles
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more also would be subject to prior
IDA review and approval. A total of around 70 contracts representing around
55 of the total value of prccurement would be subject to prior review over
the procurement period.
G. Accountin. and Auditing
3.25      The project would be subject to normal 001 accounting and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. The project cell would
maintain separate project accounts and a quarterly statement of expenditures
would be provided to IDA. Assurances were received at negotiations that:
(a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared
and audited by independ 'nt auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) statements of
expenditures (SOBs) would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting
practices for at least one year after the completion of the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made and a separate opinion on
SOEs be included in the annual audit; and (c) certified copies of the auditad
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together with the
Auditor's report would be furnished to IDA as soon as available, but not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 27 -
Table 3.4: Procurement Method
Categories of                ICB       LCB      Other      VIA    Total Cost
Expenditure                 ---------------US$ iillion---------------------
Civil Works                    0.00      0.00     3.13      0.00      3.13
(2.82)              (2.82)
Equipment                      0.00      5.45     2.00      0.00      7.45
(4.36)   (1.60)              (5.96)
Furniture                      0.00      1.80     4.17      0.00      5.97
(1.44)   (3.33)              (4.77)
Vehicles                       0.00      4.94     0.00      0.00      4.94
(3.95)                       (3.95)
Training, Consul-              0.00      0.00     6.95      0.00      6.95
tants, Studies                                   (6.25)              (6.25)
and Research
Innovative Activities          0.00      0.00     3.42      0.00      3.42
(2.64)              (2.64)
Drugs and Medicines           11.18      0.00     3.00      0.00     14.18
(11.18)             (2.40)            (13.58)
Therapeutic Nutrition          0.00    31.05    10.00       0.00     41.05
Supplementation                        (18.63)   (6.00)             (24.63)
Other Incremental              0.00      0.00     0.00    52.00      52.00
Operating Costs                                           (31.20)   (31.20)
TOTAL                         11.18    43.24      32.67   52.00    139.09
(11.18)  (28.38)   (25.04) (31.20)   (95.80)
Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA.



- 28 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      Benefits.  The project will have an important impact on nutrition
and health status of young children. Despite substantial reductions in infant
and child mortality in Tamil Nadu, the nutrition status of children lags
behind the national average (para 1.03), and is improving only gradually.  The
project would substantially accelerate the pace of this improvement and also
contribute towards a further reduction in infant and child mortality. It is
estimated that over five million relatively disadvantaged children 0-6 years
of age in the project areas would directly benefit from the project's
nutrition, health and educational services. Through the project, several
health technologies--acute respiratory infection management, oral rehydration
therapy, deworming, and vitamin A and iron supplementation--would become more
widely available. By increasing family and community competence to avert and
treat malnutrition, the project would help bring about a reduced need over
time for therapeutic supplementation.
4.02      The project would also have a significant impact on women's health,
nutrition and competence at child care. It is estimated that abcut two
million pregnant and lactating women would directly benefit from the project's
health and nutrition services. In the new project blocks to be developed, an
estimated 18,000 women would obtain training and employment as Community
Nutrition Workers and helpers, plus an additional 1,600 women at supervisory
levels. These workers would be responsible for forming new Women's Working
Groups with a total membership of about 300,000 women, who would be trained
both in basic health and nutritional care and in how to pass on their
knowledge to other women in the community. In addition, over 20,000 female
Traditional Birth Attendants would receive refresher training under the
project.
4.03      The project would also have indirect benefits in terms of testing
new technologies and managerial arrangements which may prove suitable for
replication in India and elsewhere. These include the project interventions
to reduce low birth weight and moderate malnutrition; arrangements for
coordinating health and nutrition services; and new approaches for dealing
with referrals of severely malnourished children and obstetrical risk cases.
Additional indirect benefits can be expected in the form of increased
acceptance of contraception generated through the increased availability and
use of maternal and child health services under the project.
4.04      Risks.  The main risk is that organizational arrangements for
health-nutrition collaboration will not function as smoothly as necessary and
thereby reduce achievement of project impact objectives. The risk would be
particularly acute for severely malnourished children who are failing to gain
weight because they have health problems; for this small group of children,
delayed referral or inadequate treatment can lead to death. But the risk in
terms of overall project impact is limited, to the extent that major gains in
nutritional status can be expected from improvements to the nutrition service
delivery strategy alone, such as the project measures to improve maternal
nutrition and to extend therapeutic nutrition supplementation to all
moderately malnourished children. A wide range of innovative measures to
improve health and nutrition service collaboration has been proposed in the
project. Assurances were received at negotiations that health and nutrition
coordination arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be introduced by October
1, 1990, and maintained thereafter (see para 2.22). Special attention to



- 29 -
monitoring and adJustment of these measures will be paid during project
supervision.
V. AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOOENKDATIONS
5.01      The following assurances were received at negotiations:
(a)   Tamil Nadu would by January 1, 1991 adopt and apply beneficiary
selection criteria and methodology, mutually agreed to by IDA and
Trmil Nadu, for provision of therapeutic supplements for children
under three years of age and pregnant and lactating women in
project areas (para 2.08);
(b)   by January 1, 1991, Tamil Nadu will introduce and thereafter
maintain the provision of therapeutic food supplements whose
composition is satisfactory to IDA (para 2.17)t
(c)   by January 1, 1991, Tamil Nadu will introduce and thereafter
maintain arrangements agreed to by IDA and Tamil Nadu for
coordination between health and nutrition services in the project
areas (para 2.27);
(d) Tamil Nadu will by September 30, 1991 undertake and complete
operations research on the efficacy of different approaches to
strengthening obstetrical and child nutritional risk management,
at referral facilities in Madurai district, the operations
research to be conducted according to terms of reference agreed
with IDA (para 2.28);
(e)   Tamil Nadu will (i) prior to undertaking innovative studies,
operational research and activities, provide IDA with terms of
reference, work plans and proposed budgets for them satisfactory
to IDA, and (ii) discuss the results of the innovative studies,
operations research and activities with IDA (para 2.35);
(f)   Tamil Nadu will, in consultation with GOI and IDA and in
accordance with terms of reference and methodology satisfactory to
IDA, undertake and complete (i) collection of baseline survey data
in each health unit district in the project area before the
commencement of project-financed service delivery activities in
that health unit district, (ii) by December 31, 1993, a mid-term
review and evaluation of the progress of the project, and (iii)
by September 30, 1997, a final review and evaluation of the
project (para 2.38); and
(g)   Tamil Nadu will furnish to IDA for review and discussion (i)
quarterly and annual progress reports within three months of the
relevant implementation period and (ii) a prospective annual work
plan by January 31 of each year for the succeeding Indian
financial year (para 3.11).
5.02        With the above assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR73.5 million (US$95.8 million
^quivalent) to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 30 -
Page 1
IND1
SEC01=D SAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Process Obsectives and Related Service Packages
No*e: The following process objectives are indicative, based on the
kinds of coverage that should be achievable with the package of
interventions and the service delivery infrastructure proposed under the
project. They may be modified for all or part of the project area
during implementation depending on the findings of the baseline surveys
with regard to nutrition status, epidemiology and existing levels of
service coverage in different areas.
Coverage                                         Targeted %
Early registration of pregnant women                      50
Total registration of pregnant women                      80
Obstetrical and nutritional risk assessment
of those registered                                      100
Tetanus toxoid immunization of pregnant women             80
Consumption of iron and folic acid tablets for
at least 12 weeks by pregnant women                       60
Administration of post-partum vitamin A to
attended deliveries                                      100
Food supplementation for at least 16 weeks to
registe;:ed pregnant women with inadequate
nutrition status                                          60
Food supplementation for at least 16 weeks of
registered lactating women with malnutrition
in pregnancy                                              90
Immunization (UIP-6) of children                         100
Vitamin A megadose (100,000 - 200,000 i.u.)
semi-annually to children 6-36 months                     90
Regular growth monitoring (>9 times in a year)
of children 0-3 years                                     90



_ 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
Supplementation of monitored children 0-3 years
with grade II-IV malnutrition                            100
Supplementation of children 0-3 years with
growth faltering                                         100
Monitor referral of sever ly malnourished children
(grade III and IV) or non-responding children
0-3 years to VHN and PHC                                 100
Growth monitoring, weighing and charting of
children 3-5 years                                        70
Referral of severely malnourished children
3-5 years of age to VHN/PHC                               90
Administration of vitamin A megadose semi-annually
to children 3-5 years of age                              70
Pre-school attendance (> 80 percent of working
days)                                                     70
Routine deparasitization of monitored children
in heavily infected communities as determined
by parasite surveys                                       90
Household use of oral rehydration in the last
incidence of diarrhea in the target group                 60
Treatment of pneumonia by VHN/CNW with
co-trimaxazole in cases of acute respiratory
infection (ARI)                                           30
Additional feeds of local weaning food
initiated by 6 months in infants                          50
Provision of 4 additi.onal weaning feeds/day
by 9 months in infants                                    50
Active womens' working groups (> 9 meetings a
year)                                                     80



- 32 -
ANNEX
Page 3
Service Package for Pregnant Women                 Impact objectives
Early prenatal registration
Iron-folate supplementation                        Reduction in
incidence of low
Assessment of maternal nutrition                   birth weight
Food supplementation and weight
gain monitoring of malnourished
Service Package for Children 0-3 years
Growth monitoring                -
Therapeutic supplementation
Referral of severely malnourished
children
Reduction in severe
Immunization of children                          and moderate
malnutrition
Deparasitization
Treatment of acute respiratory
infections
Health and nutrition education
MCH Services
Antenatal check, obstetrical
risk assessment and referral
Maternal tetanus toxoid
Attendance by trained personnel
at delivery and post-partum
follow-up                                         Reduction in infant
mortality
Immunization with 6 UMP vaccines
Diagnosis and treatment of acute
respiratory infections
Health examination and referral



-tw*- Prelti
bMUL                      UhLcm-         main  Ukbme                    wrsun  uufruaa                       sa
M"1oa  1.SI.tS1_s        512           t_ 7r "te  hwetth              Revised work  uperry                 80t
woet, w   tis M           outLewes.
DPotol bo     asw bettes
her eod  tlt betwe                  dt       cn.
totew" is-service MA
tralalos.
4          Veighwt baierlag         Met                                          1e hoU_ t                            8X.
tro a roIta              45-503        ge"SeIoir o4afee. eoeker gaghsie on iducat efo                      60O
Suptpmmettla                                                          of beamtSarks.s &
ommmaltLosa owolses.
toaums tassid            sit            Iaprrat   elth                Revise work sad supervisory          got
supowleOs .
FteeOrIMaOs betweo            Delup  _adopt bettor
heLth nd mxtrktis  saff.   Oo.rdiatt lo _1aas.
t4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taO4
weight emitora           oW*           met ooosler  priorLtl.          tI 4oi  in work NW                  e0t
db_t  a"   ik            lee           sorvite. .UPegwisorp coutlns.                                      sox
ta-eseWice troaiw 1.
sugpilsanmtlo  of        563L.5o        Weight imitating prebeme.   top""s weight MMU^cLns.                90 of
%bass at CIs,k.lw        *llglbte.                                    Rmagrov Coordination hetwes          elIL&ibl
blrt  weight babies                                                  hltth MA  utritu i*taff
to RssUr early wiLlls.-
_s likely to nee
tasla A is"t actor    not              a" 1lided.                     Mew Featur.                          100o
atting detvery.          loodd.
Supplmmstatlos of        Met           not  hpei.ctd.                 N0e  ete                              ib
In"  _om  witlb         _    |kta                                                                      wl 4Abl-*
e   totlat   L   w
nert   r t O   _in



- 34 -
AtNiEX 2
Pane 2
|~~~a           -9, "E   bt   -1   i1 s!R
z ~ ~ S i  ,,                   2W #3 2g.Y:    ; 
!1~ ~~~~~~~b .1 113        3
"~  ~ ~. i"-  t' ll  I a.!                S  ' 
j~     ~. 1x   it                        1  0      l  03l i



*.tt.osum  womb
.4".
lot                                                                                                         ftvvxm 0   no6 IC)
lot                                                                                                      Over"   TO@P62
lot                                                                                                      v            i
lot                                                                                                    _______________________
IiduU VI 32ww8 MME-
molqoxa nTON                                           oo*T&2 1



-36-ANE
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
A Draft Strategy for Health/Nutrition Coordination
1.          For a number of reasons, management and implementation of projects
such as TINP are inherently difficult. TINP shares the problems of most
social sector projects in that it involves a very large number of workers, a
large number of widely dispersed implementation units across rural areas, and
requires a serious demand creation effort to promote the project among the
target group. Most important, the inputs are multisectoral and their
coordinated delivery can be seriously hampered, if the concerned agencies fail
to work together to achieve project objectives. Further, there is very little
experience in the field of effective coordination of implementing agencies in
multisectoral projects.
2.          One of the established strategies for circumventing problems of
coordination or working through "regular" channels has been the establishment
of vertical programs. In the case of nutrition, such a strategy would be
highly undesirable. First, it would be quite complicated, delinking a number
of programs from concerned departments such as health, rural development,
social welfare. Secondly, the linkages between the various sectors are so
strong and run so deep that it will be difficult to isolate all the relevant
strategies under a single implementing agency. Thirdly, vertical programs
violate the principles of grass root:s planning which involves integration at
the block level of various inputs/programs/services.
3.          The alternative is to create an enabling and workable model of
integrated dervice delivery. Such an approach will involve nominating the
department implementing the core project inputs as the nodal agency, vesting
that agency with the responsibility of achieving project objectives and also
with the authority to review implementation by different agencies and to
ensure adequate performance on their part. It will involve the functional
integration of the department through a series of linkages at levels of
service delivery, training, project management and supervision. It will
require the inculcation of the concept of achieving project objectives through
a team approach among project functionaries.
4.          The use of the CNC as the focal point for delivery of all services
at the village level is one strategy for integration. The CNW and the MPW,
along with the Noon Meal Organizer will each be allocated a physical space in
the CNC to maintain records/registers/supplies. All the services proposed
under the project umbrella will be delivered from the CNC. Similarly, the CNC
will be the repository of all village level health and nutrition records.
5.          Coordinated by a Secretaries' Committee, several discussions were
held to make practical arrangements to improve collaboration between health
and nutrition workers in the field. The move for rollaboration was based on
two assumptions.



-37-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.          First,  it was assumed that closer collaboration presents an
opportunity, rather than a threat, to the departments concerned. If VHNs
receive more support from CNWs, they will more easily achieve their
immunization, antenatal care and family planning goals. If CNWs receive more
support from VHNs, they will be able to do more for children who have health
problems, as well as malnutrition. Both departments will benefit.
7.          The second assumption was that, to achieve closer collaboration,
something stronger is needed than the traditional approach to coordination,
which emphasizes block and sector meetings between workers and seems to make
little difference to workers' actual behavior. A range of specification in
five areas which together could give workers a strong incentive to cooperate
was discussed. These actions would require significant changes in the way
that the departments of social welfare and health and family welfare operate
at present. They will, therefore, require careful consideration, negotiation
and modification, issuing of new GOs and instructions, and strong commitment
to implementation. Such a collaboration will facilitate both departments in
achieving their objectives but special efforts will undoubtedly have to be
made by both departments to ensure that this coordination is actually effected
in the field. On the basis of this discussion, the following mechanisms for
coordination was proposed.
Area 1: Defining Priorities
8.          The following were defined as the overall health and nutrition
priorities for the departments of Family Welfare, Public Health and Social
Welfare (to be achieved through the available nutrition/health hierarchy
already in place). The priority objectives under each broad heading are as
follows:
(a)   Fm ily Welfare:
(i)     Reduction of birth rate
(ii)    The adoption of the small family norm
(iii)    Ensuring availability of all methods of contraception
(iv)    Family welfare education
(b)   Child Survival:
(i)     Reduction of INR, particularly neo-natal deaths
(ii)    Improved immunization services (especially BCG, measles,
completion of full course of DPT and early coverage)
(iii)    Diarrhoea management
(iv)    ARI control
(v)     Prevention of malnutrition and deficiency diseases
(vi)    Improved referral services



- 38 -
AMEEX 3
Pagp 3
(c)  Safe Motherhood:
(i)   Ante natal care
(ii)    Referral of high risk mothers
(iii)   Safe delivery by TBAs through training and provision of
DD                  kits
(d)  Area 2:  Allocating Responsibilities:
The second step was to agree on the allocation of tasks in these
priority areas between workers.
(a)  ANC screening and referral
(b)   Use of DDKs
(c)  Cord care
(d)  Clearing airway
(e)  Use of colostrum
(f)  Prevention of hypothermia
(g)  FP motivation
(a)  ANC identification
(b)   Iron supplementation
(c)  Maternal growth monitoring and food supplementation
(d)  Birth spacing motivation and identification of potential cadres
(e)  Taking birth weights and referral of LBWs to VHN
(f)  Growth monitoring 0-6 month child and weaning education
(g)  Vitamin A supplementation
(h) Identification of children for immunization
(i)  Referral of moderate, referral of severe ARI cases to VHN
(j)   Diarrhoea management
(k)   Depot holder for contraceptives
(1)  Maintenance of basic health records
(m)  Nutrition and health education
(a)  Antenatal checkups and identification/referral of high risk
pregnancies
(b)   Supply of temporary contraceptive methods
(c)   Check up of LBW babies
(d)  Immunization
(e)   Treatment/referrals of malnourished children with suspected health
problems
(f)   Treatment/referrals of several ARI cases
(g)   Treatment/referral of severe/chronic diarrhoea
(h)  Nutrition and health education



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Area 3: Work Routines:
9.          The kind of mutual support between health and nutrition workers,
which is hoped for, will not come about by exhortation. It will require
adoption of and training in new work routines which will both promote
collaboration and wske collaboration monitorable. The questions to be decided
are: When should CNWs and VHNs work together? For what exact purposes? And
how often?
10.         Both CNWs and VHNs already have clearly defined monthly work
routines. But, they are not currently planned so that VHNs can take maximum
advantage of CNWs' close contact with clients, and hence their ability to
identify target clients for the VHNs' attention. It would make sense to
experiment in two or three different blocks with two or three different
approaches before the next project begins.
(a) A children's day. Wednesday is already set aside as immunization
day. Immunization coverage could be substantially increased, if
on Tuesdays CNWs identified non-immunized children and motivated
their mothers to being them the following day; if the immunization
clinic was held at the CNC as a sort of satellite health center;
and if the CIW followed up immunized children on the Thursday with
reassurance for fever cases. In return, the VHN could help the
CNW by taking time to see malnutrition cases with health
complications on the Wednesday. The CNW would motivate affected
mothers to bring their children on that day; joint home visits
could be made by the VHN and CNW to affected children, or children
due for immunization, who did not come.
(b)   A mothers' day.  A specific day each month per CNC would be set
aside for a visit from the VHN to meet with antenatal and
postnatal cases. As with immunization, the CNW would use the day
before to motivate the women to come. A group meeting could be
held with mothers coming to the center, and joint home visits
could be made by the VHN and CNW to mothers not coming. The
additional contact with this target group that this would offer
the VHN could significantly increase TT coverage. Holding a
children's day and a mothers' day at each CNC each month would
take up eight days a month for the VHN, and five days a month for
the CNW.
(c) Using weighing days. CNWs already set aside three days a month
for weighing 0-3 children. Mothers are aware of these days in
advance, and are more likely than usual to be around. On these
days there is a contact with almost every young child. VHNs could
take advantage of this opportunity to do their antenatal care and
family planning work, and could help the CNW by providing health
checkups to children identified by weighing as malnourished. A
weekly immunization/children's day plus making use of weighing
days in this way would take up 16 days a month of the VHN's time
if she attended all three weighing days, 12 if she attended two
weighing days per CNC.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
11.         Whatever the particular pattern of joint work that is chosen,
there are two clear advantages to setting aside specific days in the month for
CNWs and VHNs to work together. One is that the days will be predictable for
mothers, so they can plan to be there to get services. The other is that the
days will be predictable for supervisors, so they know where to go to check
that services are being provided as planned, and to help workers with any
problems.
12.         There are two essential preconditions for setting up effective
collaborative work rcutines. The first is that CNW areas would have to be
redefined as coterminous with VHN work areas. This would require a
substantial mapping exercise to reallocate hamlets between CNC areas, which
should be planned and completed before the start of the project.
13.         The second and much more challenging precondition would be a major
change in the way VHNs use their time with regard to family planning. As
everyone knows, the current emphasis on sterilization targets monopolizes the
VHN's time, and reduces the attention she can pay to MCH. Moreover, the
seasonality of family planning campaigns means that this work is full time for
the VHN in the last few months of the financial year. This work pattern has
been followed for years. It is deeply engrained, and will be hard to change.
But, unless it is changed, the idea of regular, collaborative work between
VHNs and CNWs is a non-starter, at least during the final months of the year.
14.         Fortunately, there are reasons why the traditional approach to
family planning can and should change. First, it can change because Tamil
Nadu has been allowed by the Center to dispense with the national family
planning and target system for the eighth plan period, and been given the
freedom to develop its own approach. Second, it should change because, as
policy-makers realize, the current approach is both ineffective (in terms of
reducing the CBR as opposed to increasing the CPR), and running out of steam
(in terms of a plateauing of sterilization acceptors).
15.         The answer to both of these problems, as policy makers also well
realize, is to reach younger and, hence, lower parity potential acceptors, and
this means an increased focus on the temporary methods. Here cooperation
between social welfare and health and family welfare has tremendous potential
benefits. CNWs' contact and relationship with mothers make them well placed
to identify potential acceptors and motivate them to approach the VHN. And,
every birth spacing acceptor in the village will help achieve the CNW's goals
of better maternal nutrition and less LBW. Joint work routines for CNWs and
VHNs not only require an end to the traditional approach to family planning,
they probably also offer the best chance of success for a new approach to
family planning based on spacing.
16.         It was agreed that new work routines will have to be formally
adapted to ensure that the CNWs and VHNs work together for some exact purpose
and at predefined intervals. It was agreed that the best way to do this would
be to conduct workshops with field personnel so that the practical
difficulties and advantages of such an arrangement are fully taken care of.
The objective is to set aside specific days in the month for the CNWs and VHNs
to work together and to ensure that these work routines are observed in
practice. Once the days are specified, mothers will be able to avail of the



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
joint services in a predictable way and supervisors will be able to carry out
joint supervision to provide suitable assistance to the front line workers.
Area 4: Record-keeoing and Reporting
17.         Since the CNC will become the base from which the health worker
will operate, it has been agreed that basic MCH records will be maintained at
the CNC. The VHN could be instructed to visit the CNC and update the records
relating to family surveys, immunization, ANC and child health services. It
was decided that the consultant appointed to devise the monitoring system for
TINP-Il could be given the responsibilities of determining what records will
be maintained by the CNW and the VHN, respectively. The basic premise would
be that the registers should be as simple and as few as possible without
duplication.
18.         Two simple additions to the reporting system might help to
increase accountability and hence performance. First, a monthly report could
be made to the PHC of whether VHNs were in fact coming to the villages on the
specified days to work with the CNWs. Performance in this regard could be
reviewed at the monthly PHC meeting. Second, the CNW's and VHN's supervisor
could be asked to provide a report on the reasons fo- any infant or maternal
death in the villages to the PHC MO (plus perhaps a representative of the
Danchayat). Such "verbal autopsies" would be aime; not just at establishing
medical cause of death, but why the service dellv:y and IEC systems failed to
prevent it, and what could be done to avoid recurrences.
Area 5: Joint Traini&g
19.         Systematic in-service training will be required to ensure that the
new priorities, responsibilities and work routines are properly implemented by
the field staff. Under TINP I, some joint training was conducted for CNWs and
AHNs which was quite effective. It is now decided to use the joint training
mechanism to inculcate a team spirit between the workers of two departments at
the field level and to familiarize them with project objectives. The Director
of Public Health has agreed, in principle, to making the VHN and the SHN
available for joint training one week every six months with the CNW and CNS,
respectively, and the CHN and BEE for a 30-day trainer's training program in
the first year of the project. Subsequently, the training team will be
trained for one week each year. The Director of Public Health also confirmed
that the CHN would be available as a full fledged member as a training team
for about 15 weeks of training. Similarly, the Directorate of Family Welfare
will make the BEE available for 20 training weeks in the year. The logistics
regarding deputation for training will have to be carefully worked out.
Area 6: Joint Suervxision
20.         Just as work routines must be developed for the first line
workers, so supervision routines will need to be developed for CNS and SHNs.
Once again, collaboration between health and nutrition could be fostered if a
specified number of days a month were set aside for joint supervision. These
days should be chosen to correspond with the days when CNWs and VHNs would be
working together in the field.   The exact pattern of these routines would,
therefore, have to depend on the routines chosen for front line workers. But
in principle, it is suggeated that SHNs might spend eight days a month



- 42 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 7
supervising jointly with CNS. Since there are about twice as many CNS as SHNs
per CNC, this would mean that each CNC would receive a visit from a CNS once a
month, and from an SHN every two months.
21.         The above system might be appropriate for routine supervision of
the CNS, focused on checking that tasks were being adequately done, and on
help and problem solving. The block level supervisors making up the four
person training team might take more of a "management by exception" approach
to supervision, focusing their time on a relatively small number (?10%) of low
performing CNCs, which they would be able to visit frequently and for long
periods to provide necessary supervision for on-the-job training.
22.         While the general principles of these supervisory routines are
agreed upon, the health and nutrition managers and trainers at each block
would need to work out the specifics each month for their block, depending on
the needs of their CNCs.
23.         Just as work routines are to be developed for front line workers,
supervisory routines will have to be developed for supervisory workers,
namely, the CHN and SHN. Joint supervision by the supervisors on the days in
which joint visits are carried out by the CNW and PHN will have to be planned.
Clearly, the details have to be worked out at the sector level. But, once
agreed to in principle, clear instructions calling for such collaboration will
have to be conmunicated.
Oriizational Structure
24.         Although detailed mechanisms have thus been devised for
facilitating collaboration between the two departments, these arrangements
have to be closely monitored and facilitated by project managers at key points
in the hierarchy. The following proposals were made to ensure that this
happens;
(a)   At block level, the Community Health Nurse (CHN) will also be the
block project officer (BPO). The CNI will function as her deputy
and will be in direct charge of nutrition services.
(b)   At district level, the District Immunization Officer (DIO) will be
the District Project Officer. He will be assisted by a Dist. ct
Nutrition OFficer from the social welfare line. The female
worker, supervisor and CHN will come under the administrative and
technical control of the DIO. The DIO will report to Project
Coordinator on project items and to DPH as part of the health
line.
(c)   At the State level, the Project Coordinator TINP will function as
an independent office. The nutrition workers and supervisors,
including ICDS workers, will function under a Joint Project
Coordinator JPC(N) reporting to the Project Coordinator. Another
JPC functioning under the Project Coordinator will be a Joint
Director, Public Health deputed from the Directorate of Public
Health. The JPC(M) will supervise and monitor project health
activities. Jolit Project Coordinator (H) will interact with DPH
on technical issues. There will be an Additional Director (PH) in



- 43 -                             ABU  3
Page 8
charge of all Mother and Child Health activities in Directorate of
Public Health.
(d)   Interaction between CHN, SHN, VHN and CNI, CNS with Medical
Officer, Primary Health Centre will be ensured so that the project
gets full support of PHC. One Medical Officer (PHC), preferably a
woman doctor, will be a block consultant to the project as in
ICDS.
25.         The arrangement involves dual (and sometimes multiple) control of
some functionaries. For instance, the CHN is answerable both to the District
Project Officer and the BDO; the District Project Officer reports to the DPH,
the Project Coordinator and the Director of Family Welfare (DFW). Moreover,
the MO has recently been "delinked" from paramedical staff, with control
passing to the BDO, and hence the nature of the interaction envisaged may be
difficult to implement. The nature of the links to be established, therefore,
have to be carefully defined.
26.         The Communications and Training Centre constructed under TINP I
will have two wings headed by Joint Coordinators, Communications and Training.
The same Joint Coordinator will work out of the PC's office in charge of the
respective administration lines of training and communication to ensure
maximum linkages between the planning and executing functions. The CTC will
be under the overall control of the PC who will be assisted by a Board
consisting of Government officials, voluntary agencies and academics and
media. The committee will be chaired by the Secretary, Social Welfare.
27.         At the State level, several heads of department (HOD) now operate
budgets and projects for MCH activitiet. Different donor agencies also fund
different agencies for the purpose. It is, therefore, proposed that the
Project Coordinator convenes a quarterly meeting of at least the following
HODs to coordinate MCH activities and strategies:
Director of Public Health
Director of Family Welfare
Project Director, DANIDA
28.         The Empowered Committee that functioned in TINP I will continue.
It will meet half yearly, once to approve an annual plan, and a second time to
review progress against plan targets and help facilitate project
implementation.
29.         Attention will be paid to service matters including recruitment
procedures, promotion opportunities, training and motivation to ensure optimal
performance by project staff. Considerable delegation to Deputy Directors is
envisaged in the day-to-day functioning of the project. Computerization of
service particulars and the laying of ground rules will facilitate matters of
tran,fer for the larve body of nutrition staff. Special attention will be
paid to inter and inura agency communication and coordination.



- 44 -
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
OrganiZation of Health Services
1.          According to the Indian constitution, health care is principally a
state rather than central government responsibility. But, because of a large
number of centrally sponsored and either fully or partially funded vertical
programs, the responsibility for health, in practice, is shared between the
central and the state governments. The centrally sponsored programs include
family welfare, malaria, tuberculosis and blindness prevention. Policy making
for these programs is the joint responsibility of the Government of India
(GOI) and the states, while implementation is the responsibility of states. At
the Center, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, under a Secretary of
GOI, is responsible for overall program management. Within the Ministry, The
Department of Family Welfare is headed by a Special Secretary and the
Department of Health Services by an Additional Secretary.
2.          Tamil Nadu's health service structure at the state level consists
of nine directorates, whose directors report to the Secretary, Health, who in
turn is responsible to the Chief Secretary of the state. Of the directorates,
those for Public Health, Family Welfare and Primary Health Centers are the
most important for the proposed project. The first two together control the
health staff below the block level responsible for the provision of MCH
service.. The third is responsible for administration of Primary Health
Centers, which would be key referral institutions for the project. For
purposes of the project, instructions to staff would be issued jointly by the
Directors of Public Health, Family Welfare and Social Welfare. in order to
avoid conflicting instructions being issued to field staff from the different
directorates.
3.          There are 25 Health Districts in the proposed project area, each
of which has a Chief Medical Officer (CMO) or District Health Officer (DHO) in
charge of the health infrastructure. In each district, there is a hospital of
200-400 beds with specialist services, catering to local needs and providing
services to those referred from the periphery. The tasks of the CMO or DHO are
basically managerial, including planning and monitoring of various programs,
supervising service units in the district, communication activities, and
administration. They are assisted by specialized staff including a District
Communication Officer, a District Immunization Officer (DIO) and Statistical
Officers. The DIO would be the officer in overall charge of implementing the
proposed project at the district levels since his work centers on maternal and
child health (MCH).
4           Community Health Centers (CHC) are established at a sub-district
level and cater to populations of about 100,000. They provide in-patient as
well as out-patient care, and referral and specialist services including those



- 45 -
AM=
Page 2
of a physician, surgeon, gynecologist, and, in some cases, a pediatrician.
Formerly, Primarv Health Centera (PHCs) served a population of 100,000, but as
the service network. expands now are to cover an average population of 30,000.
In Tamil Nadu, PHCs have been established throughout the project area,
although many are in rented accommodation not ideally suited to their purpose.
The PHC is the nucleus from which curative and preventive services in the
rural areas are supported. It is staffed by a medical doctor (designated as
officer-in-charge), a community health nurse with administrative and
supervisory duties, a Block Extension Educator who organizes training,
education and mass media programs, male and female health assistants who
supervise field workers, a laboratory technician and a data processor. Below
the PHC is the sub-center which covers a population of 5,000 and is staffed
with a male and female health worker. The female worker, the Village Health
Nurse, is primarily responsible for maternal and child health services. At
the village level, trained birth attendants (TBA) or Dais are paid a token sum
for each assisted delivery. The TBA is also given a replenishable delivery
kit. Chart 2 (page 81) shows the organization of health and nutrition
services at the block level and below in Tamil Nadu.



- 46 -
ANNU S
Page 1
SECOND MANIL NMDU NUXRITION PROJECT
Training
1.    The overall goal of training is to ensure that project staff develop
capabilities to perform their jobs well. It would be a key instrument for
ensuring quality services, creating and maintaining staff motivation, and
improving staff communication and community mobilization skills. Specifically
the objectives of the training would be as follows: (a) Create an
understanding of the roles of different worker cadres; (b) Develop requisite
knowledge and skills; (c) develop and sustain favorable attitudes and
motivation; (d) Increase communication and community mobilization skills; and
(e) promote teamwork among nutrition and heaLth personnel.
2.          For all categories of staff, the project would support four types
of training: pre-service for new staff, orientation training for existing
staff in the project areas, regular in-service training, and problem solving
workshops.
3.    TINP I developed a successful system of training CNWs and supervisors.
While CNW training was continuous, other functionaries received only pre-
service training. Health staff were not trained in monitoring and therefore,
were not able to use data generated from the field. In addition, joint
training of nutrition and health personnel would have been useful when the
turnover of health staff increased. The project would seek to remedy these
deficiencies while building upon the strengths of the TINM I system. The
details of the training content, responsibilities and duration are given in
tables 1 and 2. Acronyms used in the tables are as follows:
BTT   Block Training Team
RHTC  Rural Health Training Center
CTC   Communications and Training Center, Madras
Inst  Institutional Training at Regional Training Center
Wkshp Workshop at local level



- 47 -
ANEX 5
Page 2
Table 1. Pre-service and Orientation Training
Staff
Category   Where        Content                       Trainer     Duration
CNW         Block       - Job skills,                 CNI and     60 days
- Project Orientation        BTT
Helper      Block       - Job skills;                 CNI         7 days
- Project orientation
MPWF        RHTC        - Job skills;                             18 mos
- Project orientation
- Nutrition education
CNS and     CTC         - Technical, communication                30 days
CNI                       and supervisory skills
BPO         Inst        - Managerial and leadership               15 days
skills, project orientat
ion
Orientation Trainin
HS          Block       - Technical, communication                7 days
and supervisory skills;
- Project orientation
BTT         Inst        - Communication and training              30 days
skills;
- Project orientation;
- Supervision and coordina-               30 days
tion skills;
- Training village workers
MO          Wkshp       - Leadership development                  2/3 days
- Performance monitoring
- Project orientation
DPNO/                   - Managerial, leadership                  10 days
DCO/                      and training skills;
DIO/PHN                 - Project orientation



- 48 -
ANEXS
Page 3
Table2. Tn-saeriiSA Training
In service training for all categories would consist of technicalskills
development, exposure to new ideas and feedback on performance. Additional content for
specific categories is indicated below.
Staff
Category    Where       Content                       Trainer     Duration
CNW         Block                                     CNI/BTT      2 days
Helper      Block                                     CNI          2 days
MPIWF       PHC                                        CNI/BTT/    2 days
MO
TBA         PHC                                        CNI/BTT/    1 day
MO
CNS/HS      Block/dist  -Supervisory skills           DTT/BTT      14 days
CNI/BEE/    Inst        - Managerial and training                  7 days
CHN/BPO                   skills
Mo          Wkshp                                                  2/3 days
Distr.      Wkshp                                                  7 days
Staff
In addition, once a year problem solving workshops would be held for 4
days at sector, 2 days at block and 1 week at district levels.



- 49 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 1
SECOND TAXIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Communicatkon Componen
A.   Introduction
1.          Desirable behavior changes related to nutrition and child care in
the home and the communLty can be initiated and sustained only through
effective communications support for program activities. Therefore, a
comprehensive communications component is critical for achieving project
objectives. Broadly, the communications component aims to stimulate demand
for project services, encourage better household child feeding and care
practices, motivate village level workers by enhancing their image and
credibility within the community and promote community involvement.
2.          TINP I developed a strong communications program to support
project activities on which TINP II proposes to build. The main purposes and
features of the TINP II communications component are to:
(a) Strengthen institutional capability in communications research,
production, evaluation and monitoring by strengthening the
Communications and Training Centre, and
(b) Develop communications inputs through a multi-media systems
strategy to:
i)    promote health and nutrition services,
ii)   enhance credibility and image of CNWs
iii)  improve maternal/child care practices in the home
iv)   encourage community participation and mobilize communities
to support project activities
v)    place the understanding of recipients at the centre of
communication development efforts
3.          During TINP II, the emphasis will shift toward the use of social
marketing techniques and emphasis on creativity, research, strategies and
production quality. The interface between research, creative development and
strategic planning will be strengthened. Research inputs will focus on the
formative data needs in the development of r-thods and materials and also on
independent monitoring and evaluation of efL....; .iveness of communications
inputs. To use communications resources effectively, communication research
will focus on the clients and their environment to provide relevant
information for developing strategies and materials, and for observing changes
that may occur from their application.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.          Formative research using qualitative methods would be used to
develop relevant and effective communications content, structure, materials
and media mix. The materials would be extensively pretested before large-
scale production. In addition, the project would support monitoring and
summative evaluations of the communication activities to continually refine
them. The communication strategy in Tamil Nadu would include special emphasis
on changing household health and nutrition behavior by reaching decision
makers and promoting community participation.
5.          The Communications and Training Centre built under TINP I would
implement the communications activities. Its operating costs would be funded
under the Project Management Component.
B. Strategy
6.          Aims and Obiectives.   TINP I evaluations have shown that
communication activities succeeded more in imparting knowledge and making the
project acceptable to target families than in generating specific behavioral
changes in the home and the community. This means that the communications
strategy has to move beyond the level of imparting knowledge to more
systematic efforts to influence nutrition and health behavior. A greater
effort must be made to influence decision makers su,.h as men, older women and
community leaders. Communication coverage has to be strengthened considerably
to hamlets, illiterate women and scheduled caste families. Deliberate efforts
are required in this direction both by workers, Women's Working Groups (WWGs)
and Children's Working Groups (CWGs).
7.          While most of the key TINP I interventions I will be continued,
new ones are also proposed in view of broader project objectives, encompassing
maternal nutrition and health and coverage of adolescent girls.
Communications has an important supporting role for project interventions
directed to the following areas:
-     Encouraging participation in growth monitoring utilization of the
nutritional supplement and appropriate child feeding practices at
home;
- Pregnant women's early identification and care including
registration by the second trimester, utilization of antenatal
checkups, immunization against tetanus, consumption of iron and
folic acid tablets, consumption of nutrition supplement,
utilization of trained dais for safe delivery;
- Diarrhoea management, including provision of ORT, continued breast
feeding and soft foods consumption during diarrhoea, and hygienic
and sanitation to prevent diarrhoea;
- Utilization of other health services including immunization, early
detection and treatment of ARI, periodic deworming;



- S1 -
Page 3
- Promoting family welfare services, including discouragement of
early marriage and promotion of child spacing;
- Promoting child-stimulating environment and activities at home;
and
- Promoting community participation to support the project.
8.          These intermediate goals form the basis for developing
communications delivery strategies. In the context of overall TINP
objectives, the communications component aims to address the areas listed
above through:
- Strengthened interpersonal communication through house visits.
- Development of supportive mass media and social support groups.
- Active involvement of village influentials.
- Backup from training and audio visual materials.
- Applying social marketing techniques in the design of
communication component in general and specifically in message
formulation, design and presentation.
9.          Social marketing is an important ingredient of the TINP II
communications strategy because it recognizes:
- the importance of creating demand;
- the need for focus on behavior change rather than knowledge
dissemination;
- the importance of understanding prevalent behavior, beliefs, and
attitudes of people and focussing communications on resolving
the major "resistance points" impeding the acceptance of
desirable behaviors;
- utilizing information on consumer media habits to create
comprehensive media strategy;
- effectively utilizing creativity in presenting messages in a
motivating, likeable, memorable and persuasive manner.
10.      Media Strategy.  TINP II will provide for a multi-media strategy
which will include: interpersonal communications, traditional and folk media,
radio and audio, films, television, display materials (wall paintings,
posters, and tin plates) and printed media.
C.    Sgecific Media Areas
11.      Internersonal Communications.  CNUs play an effective role in
interpersonal communications. It is also proposed that the roles of Community
Nutrition Supervisors (CNS) and female village health Worker (VHN) be ftirther
strengthened in interpersonal communication, to support the efforts of the
CNW. For all the communication themes to be addressed by TINP II, only two
types of interpersonal aids need to be developed:



- 52 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(a)   A set of counseling cards, meant to be used for individual
communication (one-to-one),
(b) A set of group demo teaching aids for group communications.
12.         Traditlonal Folk Media.  A regular program of yillg2attu song-and-
dance plays will be organized in each village. Songs conveying the messages
will be produced, taped in audio-cassettes by the project and distributed to
the block level.  Under CNWs supervision, local talented informal groups wii1
be organized to perform the program once every three months.
13.         RadLo.  Given the relatively short attention span of mothers,
short messages (spots) will be developed to communicate the key behavioral
message, address the resistance points and motivate the mother. About 10
radio spots for each of the six communication themes will be aired on the
radio, as well as put on cassette to be distributed among supervisors to be
played during group sessions and other suitable situations.  A monthly program
of about 20-30 minutes for radio will also be developed. These programs will
be taped and provided to the supervisors for their use during fortnightly
visits to each CNC. In total, 36 radio programs will be developed.
14.         Films and Television.  Films are popular in rural areas with most
mothers seeing at least one commercial film a month. During TINP II, sharply
focussed, slngle message films of shorter duration (about one minute) will be
produced in 35mm. 16mm versions of the same films will be produced for
screening in villages and for special programs. Television was not used in
TINP I as a communications medium. Studies reveal that the recall of health
and nutrition programs among rural TV viewers is quite encouraging. As there
is a proposal to provide TV and VCR sets to each ganuhauot through the Rural
Development Department, the one minute film spots produced in 35mm will be
transferred in OUJ matic cassette and telecast through Doordarshan.
15.         Wall Paintings. Posters and Tin Plates.  During TINP II, metal
stencils with project messages would be provided at the block level. The
community leaders in each village would be encouraged by the CNWs to paint the
walls using stencils. Reprints of selected existing posters and new posters
(total 12 posters) are planned. Multi-color posters of 20" x 30" in size with
lamination and corner eyelets will be produced. These will be supplied to all
health and nutrition centres. Posters normally need to be put in places
protected from sun and rain and are not suitable for outdoor use. Therefore,
tin plates would be produced and supplied (two for each centre). One could be
displayed at the centre and the other at school or any other prominent village
location.
16.         Printed Media and FILn Charts.  A set of counseling cards covering
all the themes, meant to be used for individual communication (one-to-one).
These cards will be able to facilitate an individually tailored message based
on the very precise needs of the individual mother. The worker selects
card(s) to meet the specific information needi of that mother. Twelve sets of
flip charts with a flip chart case are proposed as a training support material
for the block level trainers.



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
17.         Newsletter, During TINP I, good use was made of the newsletter
for informing workers, particularly CNWs and their supervisors. About 20,000
copies are to be printed every two months.
18.         Cassette Players and Taoes.  In view of the greater training role
envisaged at the block level in the second project, three cassette players
will be supplied for each block. The CNS too would make use of them for
playing jingles and radio program cassettes, during their centre visits.
D.    Communications Training
19.         Trained personnel are the key to proper planning and
implementation of communication activities. Of special importance is the
training of CNWs, their supervisors and VHNs on the effective use of
communication materials. Activities include:
(a)   Defining the job functions under communications and community
participation for workers at all levels;
(b)   Development of modules for communication training;
(c)   Development and pretesting of the curriculum for training of
trainers - CNI, CHN, BEE, and BHS; and
(d)   Study of attributes of the more successful CNUs.
E.    Research for Communications Develogment
20.         The project proposes two kinds of research studies for
communications development:
=     Formative research studies, to aid in the design and conception of
the materials; and
=     Pretesting exercises to aid in fine tuning of the materials.
21.         The formative research studies will be carried out for all
interventions proposed under the project. Each study will cover 2-3 major
areas and will utilize not only survey methods but techniques such as focus
group discussions or in-depth interviews. Pretesting will involve either
testing of the revised materials based on the formative research, or of the
new materials developed. Pretesting will be spread over the first three years
of the project period.
F.    Monitoring and Evaluation
22.         The project plans to establish an effective monitoring system to
ensure that the communication effort are reaching the target audience
according to the plan and working towards achievement of communication
objectives. The system will consist of:
-    Periodic field report from CNWs and their supervisors on their
communication-related activities.
-     Field reports on the working of other communication channels such
as screening of films, arranging folk theatre performances.
-    Special monitoring research studies to assess the audience reach
and reaction to communications inputs.



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6
23.         A moritoring system will be set up to assess the actual broadcast
of messages over radio, TV or in the cinema halls, in comparison with the
broadcast schedule.  The monitoring systems described so far basically monitor
the "delivery" of communications services.  However, monitoring of actual
consumer exposure to the messages and their reactions to it will be done
through special monitoring research studies among the relevant target groups.
24.         It is proposed that the communications component of TINP II be
evaluated comprehensively. The evaluation studies proposed will consist of:
Baseline information against which the changes occurring could be measured; a
mid-term evaluation in the third year and a summative evaluation in the sixth
year of the project.
25.         While the Communication and Training Centre will be responsible
for defining the objectives of the evaluation studies and overseeing the
progress, the design of the studies and its implementation including data
analysis and report writing will be contracted out.
G.   Organization and Management
26.         Block and District Levels.  Block Extension Educators will be used
for communications activities under TINP II. The CNI will be nodal officer
for communications at the block level. A district Communications Officer (DCO)
will be stationed in each Health Unit District. The DCO will work in close
coordination with the DEEs and MEIOs and will be responsible for the
management of communication activities at the district level.
27.         Coordination at Block and District Levels.  CNIs and DCOs will be
made members of the block and district IEC committees, respectively.  The CNI
and DCO will apprise the committees of all TINP II communications activities
and seek their cooperation in implementation.
28.         State Level, The Project Coordinator's office will include the
position of a Deputy Director Communications. The Deputy Director will assist
the Project Coordinator in day-to-day management of the communication
activities. Senior staff proposed for CTC include five officers for
curriculum development and training, research and evaluation, materials
production, community participation, and planning and management. A state-
level Communication Coordination Committee will be established, including
representatives from Family Welfare; Health Education Bureau, private/NGOs
sector; SEARB; Gandhigram Institute of Rural Health and Family Welfare;
Doordarshan and All-India Radio.
H.    Summary Costs
29.         Summary costs for the communications component are as follows:
Rs '000
Printed Materials                   27,260.0
A V Materials                       12,737.0
PR Materials                         3,310.0
Equipment & Maintenance              3,240.3
Folk & Other Programs               11,850.0
REM/Consultants                      1,900.0
Total                               60.297.3



- 55 -
ANNEX 
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.          The primary objective of monitoring (as in TINPI) will be to:
(a)   help program managers to monitor service delivery and identify
bottlenecks (as well as new/more efficient delivery modes).
(b)   give program managers continuous feedback on program outputs.
(c)   develop channels for the flow of program information from the
field to the program managers, and equally important, from the
managers to the field.
(d)   provide information for mid-project design modifications, and
(e)   build a resource for expertise in program management for use in
future programs in India.
2.          A Monitoring and Operations Research Cell will be set up in the
Project Coordination Office. This cell will be headed by a Joint Coordinator
(H & OR).  The JC (M & OR) is expected to have training and experience in
state-of-the-art techniques for large-scale data-management and use.
Familiarity with data-analysis/interpretation techniques will be an added
advantage. It is anticipated that the M & OR Cell will have a very close
working relationship with the PCO. In addition to drawing up and implementing
an overall functional monitoring strategy, it is envisaged that the monitoring
and operations research cell will have four primary responsibilities.
(a)   Overall coordination of project monitoring activities (which will
include coordination linkages within and between Health Unit
Districts (HUDs), as well as HUD-state level coordination);
assessment of critical monitoring data at the state level; and
translation of this information into a form that can be
incorporated into the annual program implementation plan.
(b)   Training of HUD and State-level staff to develop expertise
tailored to the overall strategy.
(c)   Undertake operations research geared towards program development
and modification. Where in-house expertise is available, either
in the 1 & OR cell, or other sections of the project coordination
office, the 1 & OR cell will use the expertise to conduct
operations research. Where such expertise is not available in-
house, the h & OR cell will coordinate the identification of
appropriate consultant inputs for operations research. This cell



- 56 -
Page 2
will also have the primary responsibility to ensure that results
from all operations research feed back lnto project design, either
through the annual implementation plan, or otherwise.
(d)   Maintain liaison with the evaluating agency i.e. DEAR.  This would
include sharing of data, output reports, and computer literacy
expertise.
Routine process/component monitoring (currently done by the monitoring wing in
TINP1) will be delegated to the Health Unit District (HUD) level, while the
new cell will involve itself with more detailed and critical action-oriented
analyses. At the HUD level, the statistical inspectors and the assistant
statistical inspectors will undertake the major monitoring responsibilities
under the guidance of the District Immunization Officer. Ad hoc surveys by
statistical and assistant statistical inspectors will be continued as in TINPI
to check on accuracy of recorded and reported data.
3.          All monitoring information will be computerized (both at the HUD
and the state levels) to facilitate retrieval, detailed analyses and future
access to these data. In order to achieve this objective, all concerned
personnel in the X & OR cells as well as those at the HUD level will receive
pre-service and in-service training in the use of computers for program
monitoring. Training support will be sought from consultants/other support
agencies. HUD level staff will be trained to use the key indicators for
monitoring as was done by state-level staff in TINPI. The main use of
monitoring data, as in TDIP1, would be to facilitate management by exception.
HUD staff will need to be oriented to look for centers with abnormally bad or
abnormally good indicators. The ones with bad indicators will help point out
problems in program management/implementation while centers with abnormally
good indicators will hold lessons for other centers.
EZaluation
4.          Program evaluation will aim to:
(a)   Measure the impact of TINP II on the health and nutritional status
of beneficiary children.
(b)   Identify the relative contribution of specific program inputs
towards the changes in health and nutritional status of
benefLeiaries.
(c)   Identify lessons for program expansion and future program design
in similar socio-cultural settings.
(d)   Identify more general lessons for the design of health and
nutrition interventions.
(e)   Build expertise in evaluation and design of social and health
programs.



- 57 -
IEX.?
Page 3
5.          The kinds of data to be collected will include anthropometry
(limited to weight for age), socio-demographic and socio-economic data, some
household consumption data, morbidity and mortality information, and some
knowledge, attitude and child-care practice information. These data will be
identical for both treatment and information. These date will be identical for
both treatment and control groups. Further, informati n will also need to be
collected on use of health services. This will be geared differently for the
two groups. Information will need to be elicited from the TINP II treatment
group on program participation and use of program-related health services (in
addition to use of other health services). For the control group, this
information will be limited to the use of routinely available PHC services,
private practitioners, indigenous medicines etc.
6.          For reasons of comparability, data collected in the Baseline
Survey must be consistent with those collected in the subsequent midterm and
terminal evaluations. It will therefore be important to attempt to anticipate
data needs at the time of subsequent evaluation, so that corresponding
benchmark data can be collected at the start of the project. It will also be
important to ensure that design and data collection methodologies are the best
possible, since errors or inappropriate design at the baseline survey stage
will undermine the usefulness of project evaluation work. For this reason,
and because project-financed measures to strengthen DEAR will not have been
implemented by the tine of the baseline survey, heavy reliance will be placed
on the use of specialized consultants in the design of this survey.



- 58 -
ANNEX
Page I
SECOND TAIIIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
groiect Comronents bY Year
lola tocl.didrg Cotmleftglu                                         totals lt.    o  tOlinptt% els
ItS .000                                                            (USS ' O00)
1991     Im92      1993      1994      199       19S       lotal       1991     1992     I99      is94      1999s    196    telt
mIlI                                   18 916 Ii st6   Sib 9   323.021 34b1. 249 ? 60.8219 S39. 271 32. 112.6n36   #92 t  1. 503 114. 169 s 20.2292   A,646 t22.0         90.52 9
141611ttt                              21. 014 3  80. 12S I 09. 60?7 0S6. 030 S I9. 2b7 i 13. 191 4   T0.8 Mg    1.318 7  3. 1617t  S S996  6.8U 6  8 323 s s. 660 o  S3, 042. 3
IF8818h                                 1:9883  9s.29I I 23.0 10   33.b346 641.bb6  3 9.348 4   153.399 8          91 0     39 8  1.0412  1.46 8  1.842 2  1.442 S   ,631 2
5-b~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..ta  ...it  .ivu  4..                                                                                                            ........    ....................   ... . . . .   ..... .........
Sb tuN tuI   IIw1  18. 4 29. tOI 1 49S.19 I 1S12.99 264 ,96 b 23.911 t 2.914.933 1 2.338  12.004 a20.630 326.S0N 6 39.&129 26. 139.                                              12841.4a9
8  C lPhlIICalutrAW                       12.220 a  15912 0   1 424 s49. blO. s   6.S 99 a   4.344 3    Is9.62 I   596 t   731 I    8 84    8t8 S    218 s    119 0   3431.8
C PR4IICI 8818.ttAtll
PIOttc I C11A111181  o01llt            lb .4  8  16.231 4  1t. 336  11,419 t    19.62 90  20.920 t   10. 001 I    021I   162 0       849    84068    8301 3    699   4840.2
CLU8IIIII 111UA1 11 AND  88181 cImllln  1 420 9   3 1000      8 o   2 3b   3.018 1  3  2 .491 7   22.899 9    362 0  Ub 6           130 b    134 4    138 S     162  5.034 a
11ttU1t1t111I. 4II) t8totltflt0         3.2184   4.014 0   4.6348   s. 1721 36.969 7  s.6b8 2    30.8613         181 S    In S    209 1    250 I   2S3 1    228 a   1t357 8
.....   ... ......   ...   ...... .                                                                                        .  .  .... .................
$.b 10lol IlWILI Itt AtIJIllI             217 bO4 I 2,294 s  24.   tt8 27.251 0  29.922 0  30.0200   162.6309  1.s 14b    1 .0   3  1. 2 8  1.191 3  1.262    1. 22s 3   1.22? 1
total PRUJICI MIS                           81.164 4 24.212 2 497.9191 469s.a6 t88.218 s 148.315 4 3.213.429 6  4.281   13. 813 122.933 s30.561 4 31.393 s 30 943   139. S6. 3
y  .  . . 9  . ..... .... ..... . ....... ...... ...... ......     ...  .. ... ... .. . ... ... ..  ........     . . .....  . .  . .. ...  . 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . . . .    . ..    .   . . .      . . .     . . . . .     . . ..   . ..     .                 .. .  . . . .. . . .    ....... ... .. .     ..... ..... . . . . ..... .....
t4  t  SSO  1% 1 



- 59-
Page 2
IEODTMIL NADU NUTXTION PROECT
Summary Accounts by Year
3o3.3l, Iftid.fts.3 Latl.nooft..4                                   10141% Ift1w..lg03'.i03W
Islit    3613      31363    19914     31313      t813      twol*      1VI       3683l    31381    3134     38136    1136    to'3di
*  CIVIl 8838'.       23~~~w  P30o%   q1-30~ J  ON. 3060  2138044                    by. WI J  1.01]?7   4414      Wu1?     1362?                     A. M, 
*  *338831U131         ~~~~~1. 40] 4 26.463   33.by? 4  IJ.1624  A13.82 3           334.37       16I60b  1.241 't13  3.)23I8 3462   I36863            S.810 0
8  1fl14113l                 821%  33. la3I I   7. 364 3 41.8824  46.02                   181.31?:   7    402 1  3613 4     goI 1 e J S~ I.4g %               .44865
4$6336606                            203   23.of I  78. 1606  30.316.6 I                 0,1'.41    2473  3082  1.l08   826    1.212 S                   4.8406
*  381I8                     2 182 !    136312  23.481* 6   4.114 ?  44.12724  36. 7336   36.944 0    106s    lb?14  Ob.0 9 13 480 b  LOS80  1.4684   61743 8
I*   11133143                 t0 333' 2  32.7668  3 3.601 3  14.61366   5.131 J             %3.846 J   610O2    681394     bi-,p4   643 7     77 3            2 4680
o. 884681303MD33331.11.        ?.'A31 1 0.441 1  41.1tit,4  61.2tS688  136.2 0107.166b7   333.336 7    3I68    8186'  3.1801 2.13,13 4.064 2  4.184 2  14.380 2
ao  ml3i8N3l                     27137     2 130     3306S    3308 a3.20"J                                133      1336      40      144                         66 4
3 6333036 S33il3.38i 13 3mi     0183       461t0     488 0     6200      43289    28a3 I     I246 1      626      236      223      227       3114     '38      3483
.3 8808     M.38 4*3338   38  30 8611 6b  33 1.62782  12.43821  13.231 3  34.083 4134.137 3    71.214 8    3      4 1 3: )I663I b I3   617a 8 613 6   633 4   3.423 1
30383 3141116311113 33363.N     336 13.3.   6468 202.1086 b 2.880 8 210. 1,17 IISJ.17   1 3.3030613l4  s.288I I71,262     S. 13.462 I3 I1T2 31.424b  6 21% 1 48 4V4I
%A6838833%                  36, 413 2  66066hb0 330o.133b66 333.134 3 240.3138864.863136   844 t88 I   63013  2W6? 1 6138    1.4"S4 30.34134 30. 1126  36 3b864
S  3:3638  I S               It3.33    63A23117  3220 S" IMOO23  206464a  21.806ob   133.18130         8312    21368    666      81*362   . 013138  3.33141    40084
8On 833                        .66h04   8.133139  I?.13138  32.l2b68  38.6840  20.07138   338.836 3      76b     31301   834S6  34336  3.661 4    83823  6.383i2
0 883333883                     313.b6    .%3%I  2. 821   3.83812  6.6MAI0   1.338 6       318.8848      86       242    3078    3676    2380    "a81          84689
I  33113                        333 a     6% I    13626   133808   3.8all,    3. "S364       10137       363     214      436       603      7136        a8    1068 
I  3333033f3 101111111J1111   33348a  4.180 ?   8.8224  31.86?? 311.43178  2. 04 3          8. 121 2    644    2244       j1i13    6066    8202    8463   Z.13488
6  03331 3W333*31L C0111636       - 3a6    3174     388a0     2066      2203     234 2       3.3766       76       87      a84       130      133      I6       120a
a13 38t3363330313     m  83333308 6613   ta.131t6 342.0tl 3 2031. WS88281.3In1426384 1.f       %0660804    J330  28b464   .42913.68.00 4 33.704 30.6878   43 0616
legal gB  mi 833 13333   7.13.2.183  I3M- 83. V 1313.88 a 1I44J. 81   61364636'81.134.61 3W 2.330.36 3b 3.10131 3 6.6013 3H184 38.36  2 21322  813 24.161 1I  10.112 2
legal 880138  Ul3636              a1 16,44 714.23 2 -  481.883 46131.8661886.~2186% 748.336 4 3.233.426 6 4.2513  I$ 3383322.6"J1 6O 3066  47 11.36 JO.6 10.66 338.080t3
by 3. 3880  36 33 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.  ....   .



- 60 -
Page 3
SECOD TAMIL -ANMi NUTRITION PROJCT
,Smarv Accounts by Projoct Cpmonent
INS~ 0001
siavliCt OttI0IR                          PROUt11:    COUWILAIIOU MNIUIlRING                          CuntOIm Ges
CWR8INAI401 AND  MINING      anD   OPt OVali5s
NUIRIIIUE   HAtOII  It18AItNG  CENUltIICAIM,o6    f OIIC,     CtRiBi    ltAIUAShbN  RItSt8PCH    t lola)     7   An
1. tIs"  Slt costs
6 ciVil NRNS                    40.000 0  13.1600                                              1.4000                           S5.0i0 0  S0   2.764 0
8. tURi41UR.                    46.279.0  SS.61b 0                                  200 0        300 0       SO0               102.444 0  S 0  5.122.2
C. *QUIPIIINI                   35.964 2 84.334 3                   2.b0b 6        200 0       2.100 0    1.470 0              126.974 1  S 0  6.348 7
O. vItICtts                     34.100 0 41. 400.                                  70 0          600 0      30S0                83. ISS.0    S0   4.16? a
t IR61AtitC                                       I1 t404 0           112.0            -                  t.619 0              114.33S 0   S.0  S.716 8
t   AItuI8itS                                                      43,724 2                                                     43.724 2  S 0  2.186 2
CO RUGS UD ItOICittS            2' 473- 1 206.U44 b                                                                            '26.317 7  5 0  11.415 S
H. CONSUlUItS                                                       1.000 0                                                      1.000 0  S 0       tO 0
1. SlUDitS MOD RiStARCH                                             1.008 0  1O I0.t 0                                          2.658 0  S.0    132.9
J. PRlJiCI  ANAGAEI tUIID                                                       60.000 0                                        60.0000     5 0  3.00 0
lot,l IMMSINENT CSIS              177.816 3 407.873 9 112.404 0       48.,4V 8     61. tSO 0      4.400 0   5.494.0               817. 688.0  6 0 40.8U4 4
I1. NUM"UlI COSIS
IL 56UtRi8S                   S32.947.2  44.947 2                               16.080 0      S.S10.0  14 0e7 0               6t7.541.4   S 0 30.?77 1
ft. ClUSUtWtES                 34.630 0  lb. 331 S                10, 64b. 0       444 0      1.600 0    1. 00 O               6475b. S  S. 0   3.237 8
C. RE4N                        63.703 3                                          S.600 0                   604 0               87.807 3    0 O  4.390.4
n) RSiNttIICI                   1.t25 0  10.314 ?                    722 9         300 0        480 0      790.0               14. 132 6  6 0    706 6
I UitilitS                     3.636.0                                         1.014 0         460.0       84.0         -       .184 0  .0    269.2
.. PEIROt O1t tU8RICAU4S       11719.0  33.630.0                                 1.440 0      1.560.0      420.0               48.769 0  5 0  2.43A S
:. OlHtR OPERTItGC COSIS                                                          756 0                    U4 0                   SOO   S60       45.0
P. iHEIIhPItJIIC  UIRlIItYI   701. 173 5                                                                       -701.173. S  O0  35.05A.7
lotal  ICIRIINI COSIS           1. 369.334 0 104.223.4                11t.68 9     23.b34 0      13.800 0   17. 904 0           1.S40.264 3  6 0  77.013 2
total 86SEti6t CtSIS             1.S47.1S0.3 512.0S7.3 112.404 0      69.9188       84.78 0       18 200 0  23.38 0              2.367.252 4  S.0 t11.it7S  
Ptical Contt%nlgens              77.357 5 25.604 9  S.G20 2          2.99S 9      4.234 2         9:0 0    1.169 9              117.897.6   0 0      0 0
P1,ce Cont songiss              488. 166 7 t7t. 157.6  35.375 6     12.94? 4     20.073 9       3.749 9   6. 10S 6              737. 76.6  4.8  35.122 6
1Ttel PROJtCI COSTS              2. 112.673.6 708.869 7 1I3.399 6      7S.862 1    10.097 t      22.86g 9  30.673.6             3.213.425 6  4 8 153.020 3
iagos                           35.001 7 b3.583 1                   3.631 0         76 0          963.2     S34.6               104.470 2  4.8  4.9148
fOw'oun tpche                   54.792 4 117.670 7  Y.620 8          7.442 4        97b 4       1, 40.8   1.369 4               IV3.412 9  4 8  9.210 1
hey .  1990  :5. ;3                            *-                                           *     ...    ...



INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
TINP One Ungrading Center Level
Noon Meal Program Conversion - Center Level
IRS I0001
Qunt It y                                                                 8ha   Co" s
Unit  I91  t992    t993       1994       998     t99t    lotal   Unil Cosi  1991    199?       1993       1994      199S      1996      lotat
g. ulvts;wiws cos.s
t t.QUIPlttIt                        40   2.388   3.923    2.631    3.084              12 066         t 2   48 0  2. 8bb     4 707 b   3. 17 2   31700 *8            14 479 2
8. IURRitURt                         40   ?.388   3.923   2?631    3.084               12.066           3  120 0   . t14 0  lt.769 0   7.893 0   9.252 0             36198 0
c  DRUCS 4tO tt(DICIlttS             40   2.428   6.35t    8.9U2   12.0b6   12.066   41.933          0 1   12 0    7?8 4   1. 905 t  2.94 6   3.bt9 8   3.bt9 8  12.579 9
total INVESSIttI  COSIS                                                                                       180 0 10.75t 0  18.381 9  13.744 8  1t.67?  6   3.619 a bt.287 1
,..0..6-   h
11  RtURtRl COStS
A  SAARIES                         40   2.428   6.351    8.98?   12.066   12.066   4t.933          2 4   96 0  S,87? 2      ?8.242 4  21 SS6 A  28 958  4  28.958 4 tOOb39 2
8. COIISUAt8IttS                    40   2.428   6. 35     8,98?   12.066   t2.066   4t.933        0 46   16 4  t. lIb 9   2.921 5   4.1t1 7   S.S8O 4    , 88O 4  19.289 2
C  tEttt                            40   7.428 6.351 9   t2.066   12.066            3?.951 9        t 2   48 0  2.9116   7.672 3  14 479 2  14.479 2               39.542 3
0. ItINRAPIuTIC NUtttRIIIOt
01CCA                            40      40      40        40       40       40       240      131,11  847 2    474 4     411 2      lost 8    3820      18-2 0   2.618 4
CISC a                                7.388   2.388    2.388    2. 88    2.388   11.940         t b6        372 678 8  28.321 7  24. 48 b  2? 781 8  22. 04 4 129.334 1
CllC C                                        3.923    3.923    1 923    3.923   15.6S?2       t 68                    53.66h 6  46.S26 8  40.328 4  37.42?  4 177.947 3
CNC 0                                                   2.?31    2.b31    2.63t    7.893       l bg8                            3S 392 I  tl 203 7  27.0467 94,242 4
cISC 1                                                           3.084    3.084    6.16t8      t3 68                                       42. 189 t 368 76  78.765 4
Sib total  IIN(RPEUIIC RUIRItIOW                                                                         547 2 1t. 142 7  82.99 S 107.449   116.8854 7 122.414 7 482.807 8
total RICURREISV COSIS                                                                                       709 6 42.999 9 t08,t85 7 14? 6tb 8 t188.842 7 156.9923  642.278 2
tot*l                                                                                                         8896 b  1. 77 9 226.567 6 161. 61 b 202 415 3 tbO.S43 3 70S.S1J  1
NOy t  990  II t 132
ton
CD



-62-                                                 AIDLA
P g. S
SECOND TMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Now Center-- Center Level
(Rs '000)
I     31 t I 5 M7   33'S   314    3960   3131,  total   U.,4 C.43   I1WI    3i2      IVltJ    391     lift    IM      total
I tt5t3tt33ttl t33st
Ari Et  il.                        00  too i0 00    200                                  s e0 40 000 o i00 0 o .000 e lb0.NO                     40.00 0
tl t.3l3mt3                       10  439    40        0 14    bYtt         7Ib7        47    l 310  t.s4t3 8 2.0e10  2.e 7"s   2.1b 8            9.3t4st4
C  3Utl3UaK                      In  439   4*5        s14    0t9            2.372         3   7In 43 1.310  t.s.4000 e .00  1.5770 e.s6400
D3      AIM31t DM DA t t51        n   SO4  *.oe.   3.2SU   2 02   2,162   .40          0e       226    3 P4 2    302 7   4S 0s  #4 b   VA4 b  2.240 
3.1.3 39t03m0l3l wUW                                                                            41.02 0 t33.31 0 e0IS8t 1 20. 307 7 0.31 4    004 6 s7.00 I
;*.    ...  ......  ..  ...               ..+t ...4 . ..
b WAItIIA3                                 'I       I ***'.    p.37 I D2 7.17   1 45  b       b   4S0 o324  6.1  10b0S  a e4.41 o2 4.401 2  49.40 t0
5 atOIItj a                             4   t        I 71    787   73t? 2      07 0CS    3 71    St a46    2102  306 b ,3 3111 a  t.SS2    3. 1 29  b.4 I4
C   a3t3                              4,4    3300   t 371  3.b17   I b05    0.05        I S    12      0 blb 0  t,2ft    1.86346C  2.n113 e 23    6 9 277 s
0 0u3l3til353A3UitIlA.. I3                    tO 10    00    600    000  3.00g          15        -    .75        0 0ts 0  0 00   0000     00   3.20 0
IMM1,1111*4133 63vii3tI33
ICA                           n 75          710     70         n 16 1       O   140 3b   I.0W     60 n          e110   730t0  60000  000   4.120
cd                                 41    411    431    431    439  2. M *3N6                      bOt *S      00 N e4.%  0 4.3663  X.603 I 3t710 2
c3t                                        40t    40      4S    4810 3.160         33 60. b73l  b .8707 I.0 66  4.1 n22 3  22.03 2
CD a                                               St4    S4    034  3.S42        133                            - b7i.0310 6.00 %.3 I  34331 0
cR t                                                      6I0"   609  3.110        16 b1.030 I 7.ol, 7  It6s.61t
S.h total 3ilt3I3630U3   31t343Ult33                                                        3.026e0  0.0  o002.74 T I 16.1336 1 .47   22.240 2 U.t32 a
total 1111111t5 UO.                                                                             1. b63 tI. 413 6 71.t;5tt  It n4281   .t Will 4.302 2 IS3.00h 3
total        -                                                                                     2 e 8 22.746 6 UA2  I03 t 3. SU    1;.404,41 3 *.06 8 Mt s1t7 2
6 5 7   3 .  3.9 0   .0 1 3.                                                                                                                     ..................................................... . . . . . . . . .
t4yt  99t  l'i 13



INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADII NUTRITION PROJECT
TINP One Areas Block Level
IRS '000
O Int ty                                                     Use. Costa                                                   Base Costs 1. S
Urnst  1291 1292 1293 2294 1295  2996  lotal  Cost   1299           #992      1993       2994      2995      1996    totalt       " 1992 292   993   2994      #99it    1995   total
I. IMVSINISI  ct2s1S
AtQtlP9NI                              #1   22   22   30    37            122    2%    276 0    550 0    650 0    760 0    925 0                    3.0 '    :4,I t7  4.24  424    44.    S4 4                  270 4
B. CURUI#URB                            it   22   22   30    3?             122    to    Ito00    220 0    220 0    300 0    370 0                    1.2fl o     4'. 1 '4  :2 9        '72b    2' S               728a
C. VEWUCLS                              It   22   22   30    37             1 22   100  1.200 0  2.200 0  2.200 0  .1.000 0  3,700 0                 22 700 0   bI 7 129 4 12)4    2156 i 227 6                   727 B
total 1VIEWST#2IE2  Cot2,s                                                                  1.485 0  2.970 0  2.970 0  405. b.0  4 91r, 0               '6.470 0   B? 4 174 7 t?74      238 2   293 B                96886
2t  R2c12U1#12  Costs
A. S4t82112$                           #2   33   S's  85   122   1222   428   #96  2 IS660  b.4bB 0 #0. 72100 l20.b660 023.912 0273. 92 0  B3 8982 C   2', B 120   hi14 2   )*0 C I 4021 9 4021 b4 'P 4 '
B  UIttilils                           22   33   Sb   86   122   122   428          3      33 0      99 0     ltsS 0    25  0    266 0    3661 0   1.284 0    '9   5j          9 I1     t 0    .1 I      2? t,   fl.
C  COUsuNA8tts                         21   33   Si   85   222   122   428   2 5          21 5      82 5j   237 5    22  5    305 0    30% 0   1.070 0                  A 4   4 1   $  12 5'   'I 9      -7 '2   62 9'
0  RENT7                               22   33   55   85   122   1222   428   98          #0769    323 4    b39 0    833 0   2.195b  t.195 6   42194 4           se            '      40j24    70 3      to03   246 ?
t  982801 Oil tuBRltIs11              It   33   55   85   #27   122   426          a     8U  0    264 0    440 0    680 0    976 0    1116 0   3 424 0                lb5    25 '2   40 a    III 4    9' 4   201 4
olot.  RCC#2942   COS'S"                                                                    2. 412 .4  7.23b.0 12. 062 6 18.640 t 261, 7546 522  754 6  93.860 4  141 4) 42%  4 709 5 I 0921 IS.674 4 45 73 b   i.2t 2
l0184                                                                                        3.897 3 20.20b 9 25.032 5 22.606  32. 749 b 26.7S4 6 #10.3304  2             20484  2       e.  Ot4802 4    I .8217 6 2.6b73866.4990 
Ray 4.  MO9  '2 32
0 I



SSCOND TMIL NAMA NTRTION    ECT
Now Areamcks Xoovel
..... . . ~tit tt7                                        g. Clzna   Costs            fJt Ct tn S
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~       ~   . . ..  .......
mit  1291 399  119'  199   I",5  199  loW   Cost  1991   SW9           M93       11W1     1995     599     Total      1991  tOl    193    S9I,.   1995    599        loeo
*  ItSSN6t                                52 U   0 t    I    42         t94    2b        1t300.0  .225 0  t.275 0  t. 010 0              4.00               WS.   72       7t0,   bl S              25 J
1,  ttati9 h                                    49    51    42          194    tO      *          0    49  0    StO O    420 0            1.940 0          30 h    28*    30 0    241 ttl4
C.  NtICLIS                               b2     St  bi    42           t94   tOO         5.200 0  4.900t 0  5.t00    4.200.0           19.4000           0b9 2I 62   20O.0   24t'                 t41 2        1
....    ..  .... . .   ..... . ..   . .  .   .. ...   ....  . ....... ...... ........  .......... ............................
toetl I61S1lUl QS315                                                                         1 .70 0  I. btS0  6. It 0  S. 6t0 0           26190 0           412 9   389 S  405 0   3t35                40 6
tl. tl*Cluatt costs
A  IASOtBiS                              52   OtO I t2   194   194   693   372          t9. 344.0 31.572 0 6.S44 0 72, 6. 0 t2.166.027. t90                t137 9 2.2t0 1 3.12b t A. 20  2 A2 .       4 It5
*  litt                                  b?   tOt   tS2   394   194   693    12            624 0  1.212.0  I.624.0  2.328 0  2.328. 0   8.31b 0           36   7  t1.3  tOt 3   U6b 9   13b I    419 1
C  cOiNSauams111'                        b? t t01   tS2   194   194  bStl    S             2bO 0     0 0    760 0    9700    90 0   3.4b 0                t. 3   ?9 7    447    57 t    b.7   1  03 8
0.  t311ill1S                            52   101   152  194   194   b91       3 J16 0    303.0    4b6 0    b62.0    582.0   2.079.0                       S.92 7      6    26 8    34 2    14 2    122.3
f  PIIOI Oil 'tuUtCmS                   S2   t01   152   194  1t4   693    tO             520 0  1.0100   .S20 0  1.940 0  1.940 0   6.910 0             30 b.    9 *    8  4   1*  S    t 14     407 %
toWal 11C511l6tt CIIS*                                                                      20,904.0 40 b02 0 61. 104 0 77 9t 0 77.9    0 278. 4t 0        '.229 b 2. 3U 4 3 b4  * 4. '7A5 4. bS1 tSi 301 4
b0St                                                                                         27 924.0 47.217 0  7.989 0 83.bbtt 0 77.9 S0 304.77t 0         t.bt4' t, 2 t't  1 999 4 4.921 t 4. W71 5 .928 0
.    .                                                                                                 .    ....  ....  ....   ...   . ... .. . .. . . ... . ... .. . ..... ..... . . . ..~..   . .... .
tt  4.  990  12.31
It!



ANI
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
District-Level
IRS I0001
t)usately                                              ease Costs                                          ease Costs in $
Unit  992t 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 Total  Cost  1991   IW2    1993          IW4      1995      2996    total    1991 1992 993  1g94  299S  1996  total
~~~,.    . ,r   : :-. . .   .   . .     ;.  z.   .   ::..--r.,. 
1. 2llvtSttllEU cosrs
A. EtUIPltt4I                          I   6    7    5    6           2S    25   250   150 0   175 0    125 0    150                    625 0   1 5  8 8 10 3  7 4   88                36 5
8. fURUItUiR                           I    6    7    5    6          25    15   1S 0    90 0   105 0       7S 0      900               375 0   0 9  5 3   6 2   4 4  53               22 t
C  VEIICLCS                            I   b    7    5    6           2S   100  1000   600 0   700 0    5000    600 0                 2.500 0   5 9  35.3 41 2  ?9 4  35 3            147 1
total IKVIStIENIM  COSIS                                                            1400   840 0   980 0    700 0    840 0               3.5000   8 2  49 4  S7 6  41 2  49 4            2059
II. Rt CURRt41  COSIS
A  SAtARIlS                           I    7   14   1s   2S  2?    91   45J  4530 3 171 0 6.342 0  8.607 0 I1.325 0 12,32S 0 41.223 0  25 628tS5  373 1 5063 666 2 666 2 2.424 9
S. Rf.!1                              1    7   24   19  25   25    91    30   30 0   210 0   420 0    570 0    7500    750 0  2.730 0   t 8  12 4  24 7  33 5  44.2  44 1   260 6
C. C01tSUIWB3is                       1    7   14   19  2S   ?5    91    t0   20 0    70 0   140 0    t90 0    250 0    250 0    910 0   0 6   4 1  S 2  I   2  t4 7  14 t    53 5
0  IiltIllES                          I   7   14   19   75  2?    91         3    30    21 0    42 0       570       7 0      7S 0    213 0   0 2   2 2   2 5    3 4   44   4 4    16i 
1. PtlR0t OIL tUW ICAtI-S                  7   14   29  25   25    91    Is   t 0   1O  0   710 0    285 0    375 0    375 0  1,3t5 0   0 9   5 2  12 4  16 8  22 1 22 1    80.3
lotal RiCURRENI  COSTS                                                              511 03.577 0 7. 154 0  9.709 0 12.775 0 12.775 0 46.501 0  30 1 2104 4208 $71 1 71 5 751 52.73S 4
;:z : ,      :z -        .        .. :              -. r::     -.       - -              : -i :.z-  :..  ,:z
otal                .                                                                652 04.417.0.134 0 20,409.0 13.61f  0 12.775.0 50.00t 0  38 3 259 8 4785  682 3 800.9 75 5  2.942 2
lay 1. 1990  15 13



- 66 -
ANNEX8
Page 9
INDIA
SECOND TANIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Health - Block and Blow
4.0hitAw ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    w   ct
Il                                                   6.s.. . .......... .. .    
U.n.t  ISI9 192 1193  IS94  list  196  10o1       1    I      SSit Cost  lI"I  1992    t193    T1,4  I99      t9b    lolal
I  189l9isltNt MWI
8 IQIJIPNI8I
t1U4ttttl N'l                         1I4   11             is1           Si:      1316  L411 8 a .110I 2 9.49 t  to. a3i a  10.510 2              42.20 8
1001176tI.I PlL                     11 74    II   91    i9               31t         85    9460  6.3640  6. IOb O   * tb6 0   b. 14 0              27 176 0
mUIIllMl UIL                      If  74    It   a1    1S              316         49    495  0  3.3300  3. 19 0   3 649 0   3 9S  0             14.220 0
se. tot. IQIUIMAl                                                                           2.912 0 19.595 2 16.800 8  21.448 8  20919 2              83.61b a
6 I119911&II.1.
IUiUIIUit 0%1                       It  74    71    it    19             Jib        III  1.3090   8.t80b O  i 449 0   S.b39 0   9.401 0            37.9b4 0
1UN, ti191t t41                     I1  14    11      1    19            316       96 6    6226  4  t88  44.018 6   4.9S94 6   4.471 4             11.816 b
S1  to, l  1IUIUtI1UtI                                                                      1.931 6 12.S94 4 12.4b7 b  14.221 b  13.8'2 4             99.489 b
C  itNIC ls                            11  74    is   III    S              31b        19O  1.650 0    too 0  0.650 0  12. 190 OM II.tS0O             4.400 0
D  CmOS UO1P DIlIll
DtDlt tUiD lll0IClms U.L           i toh   ISb   237   116   31b   1.171        137 S  1. 12 5 11.6it 5 21.459 0  32.587 S 43.45  0 43.45  0   4. 131 5
69,. U3D ImIoIu6IS t1t              it  89S   b6   231   316   316   1,121         46 7    513 1  3.969S5  1.285 2  11.061 9  14.151 2 14. tS1 2   2. 3S0 7
S6 lotal WDtlUS Axe tIlOIbll                                                                2.026 2 15.651 02d 135 2 41 69 4  Stt.201 2 98201 2 206. 48 2
tolal I869lSIttt1 [Sl1                                                                         8.S20 6 9.349 b  10.693 6 91.411 8 104.84t 8 %6.207 2 39t.094 6
a :~~~~~~~~~~~.::. .........  : ..:::.:... :    ......   .........- .:...:
I I 81CI1918l WIs
a  SMiltU19                           it  th   19b   211   316   31b   1.121         34 4    422 43.264 0   .990 4   S. 1OO  12.134 4 12.1344  43.04b 4
LV%m I O911S
t*45UU9W I% t:t                    11  6t   tbb  237   Jib  Jib   1. 121            12    1320  1.020 0  1.872 0   2, 44 0   3.792 0  3.792 0  13.4#2 0
O15138UltS 1E1i                    I   89   ISb   237   316   31b   1.121          1 9     16 5    121 S    234 0      ns s      474 0    4740   1.68i S
iO 1Q1,~ lol  11 I.OttW .                                                                    149 9  1.147 9  2.106 0   3. I9 S   4.266 0  4.266"0  19. 133 9
C  IUIIUNI tAI6htIIUI8         11               b h9  ISb   231   Jib    80           10                0 0    890 0   1. b60 0   2.310 0  3. 1bO O    0 9o  0
6  6ittl1 oil U"11:111t19             II  8t   1S6  237   319   316   1.121            30    3300  2.sso0  4.68O     .1100   9.480 0  2.4tO0   33.6300
lolal 611391I Mlt1                                                                                   9 27.011 S 13.626 4  20.470 1 28.20 4 29.040 4  198999
....    .........    ........    . ....    .....    . .    ..    .. .. .
total                                                                                           9.421 S 66.418 I 984.2800  112.448 t 133.099 2 97.247 6 492.914 5
...:.  ...:.. .0....  .. .
N&  1. .9oP.I



- 67 -
Page 10
SECOND TAMIL NMI ND ITION
,,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.  ..............                         ..................
I1.,  1991 Iff2 19S3  I004  I009  ISS6  lotol  COSt   lOll           103       1S3        lg41     19S       1995    total
I     ,:: -::                                                                                            -X:: :...z.  -t$:::.:..:. .. :: :: .;:._.::_.a: t:::.:S: :S.S
a. umstri" costs
................
A. .... 16
PKt Sftics E13111G5 stous                  1   22   22    30    317            122   1SS   I.19.0   .410 0  3.410.o  4.6S0.0  S.739 0                -  1910.0
P   at03 l  on6  00s                             S2   49    b1    42           t1t   114           - s.ot.e0  S.260    .6740  1.N40                      33.16, a.
to St108  sit MtlS                          -   II   89   1S6   23?   316   8           13               803 0  6.ns.0 Io .36.0 11 .01 0 23.0e o        58 0765 o
m  P SRlI6  no                              1    6    1       s      6           25      I       7.0      42 0      40.0      390       42.0                171s.0
to st 5108  we                              -    I    1    14   1    2s    66           3                 3 0      21.0      42 0      ST 0      7s.0      19S 0
Staf titIl                                   I    I    I      I      I      I     b   tO0    100 o    to0o         1o00         0 loo e  000     100.0      6000 
S.l-Ioli  l MINING                                                                              1.812.0 134060  t.311. 0 3s.0N00 30.o 43.0 23.243.0 112.404 0
ltotl I8stt0t CoStS                                                                                I.812 0 It.40.0 18e 311.0 29.0 s 0 30.54t   23.243.0 112.404 0
total                                                                                              t1.8120 13o 406.0   . 3110 29.0800 30.943   23.243 0 112.404 0
...................................~~~~~~~~~~~~.,. ..........  ... .     .               .    ....     ..  ....    .. . .   ...    .......  .....  ...... v* 
Communicattna -er Lovel
a s leoo
vsst   1291      1m2        1003      104       tss       118    1o..        unit Col t 10s1    0m    1003            104       0m 09   10       totsl
.....  ...+;  ;s    .       .......  .      - 
1. 1l801t510 COS0S
..........    .........
8  tAtE1RItS                  S.143    S.143    5.143    S.143                           2. s12         S it  7. *s t9 7.789 T. M69     7b,76  S                     31,063 7
tota l IUWSIKI CSIS                                                                                              1.6    9 1.716S9  1.t7t9 S  7.16S 9                   31.6bl t
i1. KmiuSi  Costs
A  aouls s                  s.43    1 t.2Sb   1.479   20.572   20.977   20n.72   02.914              0. fit     "I 4 t. 182. S1.1*74 3  2365 8 2,36. 8 2. 36S.  10.646 0
total OICIIOOIMl ta *                                                                                               WM   4 1. *    2 0. n.    3  2.6 9b      a 2. J398 2,389.8 10. 64b Q
,.,a                                                                                                             8.11 4 6. 044 8 S. G40  3 10.131 7 2.365 6 2.365 a 41.70  7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                     .      . .....     ..... ..   ...... ........     ....
.....    ... ..   .... .. .
~I. 00   is. II



- 68 -
Page 11
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITIQN PJECT
Commmications - Wl&ck Level
.5 'we
OilWI)114~~~~~~ 1s                                                                                      1 S
awnolly                                                  as" thts                                 6as  C"t  in 9
u s tI 1992 1993  1994  im  m9%   total   Unitl Cosl n1  O1992    13    1994   199    Is6M  11    l9 Ill2" 191  194 n       19u 19 tot
t. ttNtSttt tSI asl
l411IP111h9 NW  UuiSl                    6    49   61   42             194         $1          1900   3167   3826   316 0         kt0          2     162     4b
t94IPUUl1I" IIMo6 UI                it  22   22   30   31              122       3 12   34 3    U66    866    9356 11              380 6 2   4 0  4 0   66  6 A           2141
9d6 total Igl IlMI                                                                         34t3  4n   6   436 1  46 1   430 4        1 83s 6   20270 261  20 '7       I t9.
Sb 1tl6t 14UIHU41                      It  74   iT   at   IS               Sib     14 78  162 6 1.093 7 1.o014 41. 9 2 1. 17 6      4.610 6    b b 74  b   7104 4 A     *14 t
Ttal  9tlns6t16   MIt 4.                                                                     19sS 1t.%2 4 1.465stbt33  1 til 3    I             tl0  I It    *7f 4 9Iti4 94 0  332 1
Is  UCttSMtO  U.1151
8 t  l9Ilsht5i.                            ft tN   16   237  31b  31b  1.121       0o    $3   2S 6    46 a    ifI   t4l6 a4     3361i3    7  16  76   42 5 6  s6b  to a
toet  610136  t1.l^                                                                            33    2s 6    468 *    tI       464 tt 64 * 13b    0 2  t   28   4 26 6s b 619o
total                                                                                          C0 2 I.S6119 t.532 1 t. 44 4I  bS2 94 S 8.6 44  St A 9228  O t01 14026 6  66 N   402 6
,,               .      .  .      .  . . _             .         .   .    . . . . . .   . .          . .  .           .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... ...
li  I 19    66 I
Communications - District L:eve
IRS '0001
waltlt3                                          Baas COsts                               8     00ths in 8
Uast  199t 1992 1993 I4    t99C 1996 total  Cost  1991 1992  1993  1994   9999         96 tt total    199t '9s2 1993 ;994 1996 1996 total
.. ... .4..4. :.4  .... .4. 4. . .4:. -.                                                               .
S. IUtSISutI costs
............    ...........
. tAtERIAltS                            t    6    7    S    6            25      6    0  30 0  36.0  25 0  30.0             12.0      3  1.8  2.   1.6  1.8           7 4
S.  t001 ttl                                      -.                                90.0 160 0 180.0 1400  100.0           5700   53  9.4 10.   8.2  s.9             39.4
total hUV&STIKII costS.
l9  0 190 0 215 0 1tb 0 130 0          79S 0   b.6 11.2 12 6  9 7  7 6           46 8
It. 9ECUORRIN  COSTS
8    IPt"t111 ttkutatljEtCt            I    7   14   19  27   2S    91   2 6   26  t8 2  3b 4  49 4 66  0 66 0   236.6   02  1 12.1 2.9  3 83 8   13 9
total   mtlRtfift coSts                                                                 2 6  18 2  36.4  49.4  6W 0 6S 0   236 6   0 7    12 1 2.93                3 8 3.
*etot                                                                                   97.6 208 2 25t 4 2t4 4 195.0f60 1.031 6   6.? 12214 a 12.6 I 1.   3.8  6o7
tly                                                   . ......
U.y t.  990  is: 13.



69 -
MEX 8
Page 12
SECOND TAIIIL NADU NUTRITION PROJET
CotmicatioiiB - State Level
03M3 ,1                      -~ Cg,                                                           a. **... .. .................. ........... ..... ...  . . ...... 
ftin    ttSt tnr t9Z  t95U       I  tffS oltal cos,   tfft    tSft     121tl    11114    Iss0s    10SfS   Mtlu    tgtl   19S1    1t tsIt     s s    tout eX
..   .3.3 . .       .,.    .   3   .  .3..:   ;...,..   3   .       S        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. :..........
ilitst                                     *                             1,16 3 1.16 3 I.8e 3 1.166 1       -    -  t     0 Ieo ts * t5I    ItS * tts *   - * 462 a
ltt sltain   s 1                 t    I   I       I       I t       1       20a   S20    1 O        2 0      1   60    0  12 O    it  3      t31   31  31 3  1  t   t4
Sb* lelt tUtlutitI                                                            52 a     2 o     0 o        #o  #o s7 o 10  0        I I     s 1  I   1     313 31  to 
C  ASUt8ltib                        I   I   I   I                 4  250      1 00       O  20 10   7500               1.000 0   14 17   ? U  4 7  14 7           S 6
a slOtth03nosums                    I    I   I   I   I   t    6   ttJ   3680   16 0   180   16tu l16018610  L.o000    CC   C s                  29 tt   S         ttSt 13
loa  lfetbIlttt  tosts                                                        2.4 s3 2.436 3 2.433t   3 2.436 3 220 0       220     34o3 t6% o   3 14e  3 14 t 3 143 3323 I 12 9 t7ss    I
11. 11083111l CO$tb
a trIuIb l ts6utsl7s 2o0    t 0    21 o                                                                  1 0t 0 750.0   1110           t I S   is   tb  lS   Is   as
lteol UIMIIII  "Is                                                               2110    110    2105t     11     0    10   10 7100    lb   lb    I    lI  lbI I    6o tt
-3......    ..4 .. z*S.3    ...3.    3..II      . .-  ......... ..              ...3.
total                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~246"I3 2.4"13 2. 461 12.46t13 460 341 0 10.336 0   448 144 8 144 61448 SH 414 46go? 
lb, 1. Mt.O it is
.I I.Il    I1
project Coordination Office
+*-   o~  ---  ....     .......  tt ..  --.....  ...........   ....................--- -.--*-----. ....-- ...   .....................
4131   Il tS 1113 303 1114 till 6 stot letat C t it    1t37    113       l tll   tIl     16   talet   till          ts 13  tIst  ts9s  tl  total
.,   ..J......             ......  ..I..   ... ...  ....... ......... ....... ....       ......................                 .       ..  .
I. IlStIltUl cOmlS
is~~~ I  No MO7O                                                                                                      MO -     a                                so i
or #ml ins                          I  -. ..I0 *                              00 to     *        *                                       S                                It 403.
CVINSIS                                                             I"        o 1 0     o       .        .e 100  4  I                                    .           .   441 
ot "Cl         66t lowA.a0                                                          0 10.0000.  0010,000 10 . 0001. la. 0o060. 000to 10    Su1 I2 Wm0 2 3 ina "a  a 1"a 1 1 4
total  stItbbItl  1                                                    33I$1. 11,11.0 10.00 a  00 00 10.ootO.0 moo00   2to. on    .10 o11a 66  1    168 t16  l        t1 I
.        ..      ........ ....                  .                    ... ..... .   .I . . . ..3     ........  . I..3*33 3.  ...... ..
aWAM1811l.                                                                   2.8t00Vw 002.66002.M 00.&80 I&  080                         l6 t6 is tl11.1 616141 9
aammmit~                                                                    ,ti0    140 a   24.0    240      140a    740   4440   44  44  4 4  44  44  4 4    1 6 I
Cnot1                                                                      6000    000   S"00   60 00        40   6000  S.6No000     3 31 3   b1  3 S3 t 3 31  133   3 fit6
aI 61311t104.                                                              100      s 100       100  s 100     O     100    300 0   2131313I12  a621                    33of5
I 0ll* Il                                                                 t1l0             to60     l MO180    36 0    1610  1.0t4 0   fi Ii   II Ii   II   II    Ill"
Imile  al13l IUM1861%              I   I   1'  I   *   I    6  24          1410   3400   3400   340         340 0   20   .440 0   143 114  41 1       343 1S4 1143    6421
*alas 1080386311                   .         .31.          .    .320. 0    3360   1310               360    136 0    126 0   260   2 4    4   24  24  424   1 4   6441
10361 3t51S CMOs1                                                            S.02. 0  &.1310  3.131 0  3,On10  3.12 0 3.136 0323.134 0  2333  23181 2431 2 233 I tit 2 231 1 1.30 I
to...                                                    31,081.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M"* M-9.1-90 13.1310  ....310 13,11-  13.1Si   060.2140  861 66161816,111-4,.86s? ~ 3
.3.33.3333.3 3333~~...3..  .....  .I......... .               ...         ~       .3....



SECOND TANIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Comicatlos & Trainai   Centers
tins *soc
0sint                                                                  Ibtas  CDMt,                                                8as  Csta  tn S
Vhit t991 t992 t9s3 19114 t9  1996 totl  Onht C.gt    1991                   I92       193       tS94      M9S       1996     total      1991   1992  1993  199419            199 t   total
1. IWES1t3I COSTS
.......... ......... ..__
. Ut t-                                                                                            2. tO.0           -        -         -         -         -  2. 100.0    23.s          ..123.9
S. CIVL tS                                         -.4-                                                                        -         -                   -  t 1400.0    $2.4       -2.4
C. tiSitUt                                        ---                                                  300.0                                                              -  -  -    3.  t1.6         - -  -.6
0. VMICLES                                   t     -        -                      I -  - t   600      600.0         -         -         *         -         -     60o.0    3.3                       -                    3 -*3
....... -------. -----  ------.. ...... .    . .. ... .. ....... ....... .....  ..... ......... ..... ...... ..... ...... .......
lotat I90(t515T COSTS                                                                                   4. 40*. 0        -         *a -                         - .40.0  29- -6                                          -   290.6
,,,, ~ ~ ~ ~ .  ....::ss:e       ,        .              ,... ...... ...  ..     ....  ....S-                                    t
It. SECumt CoStS
A. SLutElS                                  t     I     I     I      I     I      6        t.-50    I.-85.0   , 589.0 2,985.0 I-. 8.0  s9.8  t.0St.0  9.9:0.0    93.2  93.2  93.2  93.2   83.2  93.2    999.4
t. C Um IS                                        t  I                            S 1  t  S  300      300.0   300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0  1.o.o0   11.6   11.6   17.6    t.6   11                  .6 i9S.9
C. mtntt      ct                            t        I     t               :      6           80       so.0  0     . 0    60.0      60.0      60.0    60.0       4O.O       4.?    4.1    4.1    4.?    4.?    4.?       26.2
0. UtILItIES                                I     I     I      I     I     1      6           1s       7         ?.0 .0   1.0        ' s0     79.0       9.e0    4%O.O       4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4       26.9
E.  EtiVlt Oft ItSItC      iS               I     I     I      I     I     t      6          160      160.0    160.0    160.0    160.0    160.0    10.0          980.0      9.4    9.4   9S.4    9.4    9.4    0.4        s6.9
F. 0t74(  APEBtIMO   OSTS                   I     I     t     t     t      t      6          too      t00.0    600.0    t0. 0    10,         t 00.0    100.0      ON.       S. 9.    S. 9 s. 9   s. 9    S. 9    5.9      31.3
,.;  _   . .._ ....... ....... ........ ....... ......... ............ ....... ........ ..... ...... ..... ...... ..... ........... .. ..._... ...
total   CC     NI costs                                                                                 2,00.0 2.300.0 2.300.0 2.300.0 2.300.0 2.300.0 13.60.0   13. 3 :35.3 135.3 135.3 t39.3 135.3   8t1.6
total                                                                                                    6.0.2.0.2.0.   2,300                    02,300.0 2,30.  :.200.0O  3'9'4...1 .3..3t 133 2139.3139.  139.,3 10?.
.,........................................................................................ .............................................................................................
ws, I. tsse   ts: t3
II^



SOD TAIIIL NADU  URITION PROJECT
t(ontring
iSns '000
OuSfltn*3                                           0.B"  Cota                                     60.s Costs in S
unit  t991 1992 1953 194 199S                     99     199102    93        3994   I395    t908   Total    399t  Iff2  tS9J  3994  19575    totsl 
1. 3IWStKEUt COSTS
*. 993103t                              3   0   7   5    6    -   21    s0    80.0   80. 0  420.0  3000   360.0              -  t50. 0    3.9  23.2  24.7  It. 6  21. 2    -  K82
9. 91131616                              I                        -    I  ItS    375.0                        -       - I          17.0  30.3            -                - 10.3
C. 5790S t      RSSE9 KII               I    I    I   I   1   3    6  N0    800.0  200.e0 20.0  200.0  300.0                 -  3500.0  41.)  tt.0  33.8 tI.1   5.9    - G8a2
9. 19130199t
It StRlttCt ttt                      -    I   7   14  I9  2S        S    6         -    60    42.0   84.0   114.0   I50.0   396.0              0.4   2.5  4.9   6.1  88  22.3
to 199361 SlTAT                            I    I   3   I           4    12            41.0   12. 0    12.0   32.0         -    4&.            0.?   0.?   0.?  0.?    -  2.0
t  StI ll9CC no                       I   6   7   S    6           25   25    21. 0   I10.0   375.0  325. 0   350.0             625.0        .5   8   130.3  t.4  8.8a    -  8.8
tm  SERVICE SIT4E                          I t  I   I    I          S 5         50.0   50.0   10.0   50. 0    50.0              250.0   2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9    -  t4 
S.*-Total tRSUtIUlG                                                                 5. 0   238.0  2t9.0  271.0  326 0   310.0  1.319.0    4.4  12.8  36.4  t1.9  39.2  8.S  77.6
Total INVESTHEtI COStS                                                             3.310.0   778.0  899.0  773.0   786.0  3SO.0  4,494.0   65.3  41.8  52.9  45.4  48.2  8.8264.4
13. Rt EttI COS1S
. SALARIES                              t    I   I   I    I   1    6   793    793.0  793.0  793.0  793.0  793.0  t93.0  4.758.0  46.6  466  46.6  46.6  46.6 48.5 279.9                 F'
8. PEtblt OIL 3ttJlICJUtS                                        I t   t    t   t.   3    6   40  40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   240.0    24   2.4   2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  34.1
C. C33StES3S
.. .........
COSU3"tLCS Al ttQS                       I   I   I   I   I t    6    IS    35.0    15.0     15.0         35.0   t5.0   15.0   930.0    0.9  0.9   0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9   5.3
COSU3U6LES AT M33D                   I   7   14  t9  25  25    9         iS    t5. 0   OS0 0   230.0  265.0  375.0  375.0  3,365.0    0.9  6.2  12.4   6. 8  22.t 22.3  80.3
5*-lotat COUS33NA8SES                                                             30.0  320.0  225.0  300.0  390.0  390.0  1.45.0   1.8  7.1  13.2  17.6  22.9 22.9  65.6
0. *ittlEWuiC(
4IZPMtUtt NAIUINtICE ttQS           -    I   I    I   I   I    S    25            -   25.0   25.0   25.4   21.0   25.0   125.0           -   1.1 1.5       5 I.S 1.   .S  7.4
EQi35P3lElT M*INtUMI833CE 930        -    I   7   14  19  21   6S    10           -    30.0   10.0  340.0  390.0  2S1.0 0      60.0       -  0.6  4.   6.2  33.2 14.7  3188
S&6-total 133NTItMICE                                                                     31.0    1.90   t85.0  235.0  271.0   785.0         -  2.3   5.6  92.   12.6 16.2  45.2
Total RtC1t3623 costs                                                                061.0   968.0 3,353.0 3.298.0  ,438.0 3.491.0  7.238.0  10.1  58.3  67.8  76.4  4.686.1 425.6
total                                                                               3,973.0 3,756.0 2,012.0 20069.0 2.224.0 3.646.0 31,732.0  3tS.1 303.9 320.1 121.7 330.89.19690.1
::::::::: :::::$:: :::: s::::::.:::: ::,::: :.t::l l...........#.$.. ....... ... ... ........  ... a .. ...  C..-*#.. ..eta
_. ..... ...............................  ...................................................................................................................................  .................................
lIsy t. tffl t5: t3
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! (I.



- 72 
A 8A
Page 15
SAMON  MA4L NADUI NUTRITION PRWJ3C?
SEQp~~~~s =ra
EvAluatitn
Ith tSt SW  tit  tn t    i NM s tintotl  Cos tlt tm    l               tio e    ti9 l on  l   1        til M   tIs"  tn 4  tIo   ton  lea
5. iI"ting tZ intI
a. unity                                                    .                          .         ..... ...... .. .       
it falSol                                                                                                                                                             I         e           t  1&* - -X.
*  *_tlit         I   *   *   *   -   *    1   5e    5eo              -       *       -       *      *     We   w.S    -   -    *    *    -  31sS 11' 1
cilm ts                                 -   -   *   - t          t 1  130   130         -         -       -      -       *       t*                             *  r.s
a. SiuStSmo _    1tt                I   I   I   I   t   I    *6  Ss          MO .      00 n. 0 It   ff0   23.0   W0    110.0  1.  1.0  I.$  .1.  I.S  5.5  to
f. Isguta
uiuit sianl                    s   s                                    SO o  wo     so  Ooo  00 W.      o   1& 0.0 a   O.0  si  2.02         o, 2   S 2 i.e It .o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......    .......    ....                          .. ..   .. . . .... .. . ..       .. . ..   ... . .. .. .. ... .
Stdt- t..t144,1  3180                                                        S00    1000 .0          00     10 10.0 W**o30.0.  1.1  t.0  It  S9  to1  2.1  11.6
"tItloiltt S8tltc                I   I   I   I   I            s 6    30    s0     30.e   so0    se.0   300    30.0   180.0  I-S  IS    . S      S   50   l.a  tte
It                                                                3"O ~I I    I I    1  00   11*. 0    100*    30.0   11.0   is.0   400.0 .444 4 4  4, 4.21
aL  ,i      mlnsrnta               .   I         I   I                             se1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   s.0         10      -0 0.1 2   0   tI  0 1 0.1  0.2
omut                             . . .36.0   12.    11.0  140.0  lf0.0  100&0   0440   2.4    4.2  0. 4  8L4   0.42as
.................... .................  ...... ....... ........ ........  ....... .... ... .... ....... ... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
I. UtttSUtISS                                                                  10e    no.   n3.0    neO    ne.    neO    04.0n  0.e4h 0.1  .1  1.5    .    . 4.
t.u5 inilimi 0011$                                                            803. f.S810 1.1101.02t143,0 .SSI0 1.9110 10. GM60  41.2 13.3 0.3 28.5502. 5114.461.4'
I.ttil                                                                        142,.0. t.S.    6402.0 2.661.0I'S" 2...40 I'$.806 ...0   61.1' 001" 't3"0.'S 100. 120680
..4.... .............
5s I.tMO lb: 13



SECOND TAMIL SADU NUTRITION PROJECT
zIRS I GM
0uentmty                                             9..e   Cost.                                     a     ots  0    Cot*e S
unit  t991 1992 1M99  194 IM     91M N6 Total  Cost    1991   t2199o 1994  a99   1996    otal                  991   99           9    9
*4444*44  24   *4  4444    43   334 44442   434 94443  42444  1224  I*4  42ot2444   I432 4S4 44*2 422*m *4242   4
sss . g :e:: ~~.. ^:    :             :::                                  ::  ::. t:..  ....  ,. .... ...  ....:: ....::::::::::: ..:::....s=
1. tWESTNitE COStS
4. CIVIL NNS
iC  AMEX                             Ii    -         -     -     - -    II   480   S.280.0                                      5.280.0  310.6    -          -     -     -     -   316.5
put                                  12    -    -         -     -     -    12   700   8.400.0                                  8,400.0  494.1                                  494. 
StT-otal CIVIL VIMS                                                                   13.io.e0                                    13.680.0  804.7      -     -    -    - .    -   ".
IL E9IIIP1EiNT
inCh ANNEX;                          II    *    *    *    *    *            20.5      225.5      -      -      -                 225. 5   13.3      .        .     .     .    -    13.3
PItC                                 t7                                ia    36       432 0                                       42. 0   25.4                             -    I. 4
S%&-Total I0utt4"                                                                        bs*7M   s                                   657.5   38.7      -    -    -    -    -    38.7
C. 1uatlt                                                                                                                                                                                            w
toE  UNit                            it                           -    II  11.4        25. 4                                      125.4    7.4                         7..4
Sub-ratel FMIJUe   E                                                                      125.4      -     -             -25.4                  .4     -    -      -                 .4
0. ONUS *u1 NEDICINiS
NMl  ANxNE                           If   to   If   tt   tt   tt    66   S.4           59.4  S9.4  59.4  S9.4  5S  4  59.4    3s. 4    3.5  3.5  3. s  3.5  3.5  3.5    21.0
Ssh-Total OCS  Me NEICiNtES                                                               59.4  59.4  59.4  59.4  59.4  59.4    356.4    3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5              21.0
*om ...... ... ..... ...                      ....        ... .     ... .... a..  ... 
otatl INVlESYnENT coSts                                                                   14,522.3  59.4  59.4  59-.4  59.4  59.4 14,819.3  854.3  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5   871.7
It. CUUEN4T COSTS
A. SALARIES                            It   tt   It   II   tt  It   68  28.8             316.8 36s.8 316.8 316.8 316.8 316.8  1.900.8   W8.  18.6 t86 18.6 16.6  8.6   111.8
S. CONSIIUSLES                         II   II   II   II  IT   II    68           3      33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  o3.0    19. 0          1.9  1.9  1.9  1.9  1.9  1.9    11.6
C. EQUIPIIENT NAINTE11*NCE              -    I   II   I       It I I  5I t .   1. 7             la8. Ila. I 8.   18.7  la.7          93.5           1.1  1.1  t.1  1.1  I.         S. S.
0. stltliON  NAINTEtNtCE              -    -   23   23   23   23    92  23.6                      -  42.8 A5S42.8 542.s8 42.8  2.  l. 2        -    - 31.9 31.9 31.9 31.9   127.7
. ...... ... .. ... .. ... .. . .... ..... ........  ..... ..... .... .... .... .... .......
total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                        349.8 368.9I1.3 911. 3 911.3 911.3  4,363.51   20.5 21.? 53 6 53.6 53.6 53.6   256.7
Iotal                                                                                      14.872.1 42?.9 970.1 970.7 970.7 910.7 19.182.8  874.S 25. 2  ?. 1 St.   I S7. 1 St. I 1, 128. 4
.. _. _  _ __ _  _ __ .............. _  _ __ _  _ _...........  . _.. __ __ ..._.__ _  _._. _ ............  _.__..._ ._ .._ _  ._.__...._......_ _  _ ...   _ -__._  _ _U.....-.. _ , _  _ 
tay I. 1990 IS: 13
51!l



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHDUE
Tamil Nadu
Activity          Year
0     I      II     III       IV       V        VI
Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4
Service Delivery
Expand to New Areas
Phase I                        _
Phase II                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Phase III
Phase IV
Infill TINP I areas                 x *^x
Therapeutic Food
Finalise
Composition      xxxx
Implement
project wide
Health/Nutrition
Coordination
Finalise
arrangements      xxxx
Implement Project
-wide
Referral System
Construct PHC/MCH
annexes               xxxxxxxx
Experimentation        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Replication if
warranted                             *     oXXXX
Traxilk1
Curriculum
development         xx
Trainer training       xx
Pre-Service training
In-Service training



_ 75 -
Page 2
Activity          Year
0     I      II     III       IV       V        VI
Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4QlQ2Q3Q4
Evaluation
Baseline
Phase I              xx
Phase II                     xx
Phase III                            xx
Phase IV                                      xx
Kid Term                                        xx
End Term                                                                xx
Project Management
Strengthen Project
Coordination Office xxxx



- 76 -
Scm  TM     t    Uany ITXO  PM"?
InEmental Ooer"tUnm Cggts for lBok Croeu  Pinanclas
(Inoremental Operating Costs Redumid by 3XZ per y*ar*)
Year Costs
F1rst Inourred
-U8 00 -------------                TOTAL
1991          1992          1993              1994          1995        1996
Year 1           1072.7      715.4909        353.931              0.0           0.0        0.0    2142.181
Year 2                -     5476.7000       3652.958          1807.311          0.0        0.0    10936.96
Year 3                -                     6836.000          4559.612       2255.88       0.0    13651.490
Year 4                                                         5992.900      3041.261  1504.67    10538.63
Tear 5                                         _                             654S.4    4364.44    10907.84
Tear 6                                                                                    M99.7       _M.
TOTAL            1072.7    6192.190       10842.94            1235S..82     11840.54   6868.8      49177.02
* Exacluds dru$s and sedcLones but Lnleudes therapeutic nutrttLon.



- 77 -
ANNEX I
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Forecast of Annual Expenditures and Disbursements
Bank Group                 bRenditr                Disbursements
Fiscal Year           Semester  Cumulative  Semester   Cumulative
and Semester          ------------US-------------------------
1st (7-12/90)              0.0       0.0         4.0*        4.0
2nd (1-06/91)              2.0       2.0         0.0         4.0
1st (7/91-12/91)           2.1       4.1         0.0         4.0
2nd (1/92-6/92)            6.2      10.3         2.0         6.0
1st (7/92-12/92)           7.6      17.9         3.2         9.2
2nd (1/93-6/93)           10.1      28.0         6.1        15.3
1st (7/93-12/93)          12.4      40.4         7.4        22.7
2nd (1/94-6/94)           14.7      55.1         8.7        31.4
Emu
1st (7/94-12/94)          15.8      70.9        13.8        45.2
2nd (1/95-6/95)           17.1      88.0        12.2        57.4
1st (7/95-12/95)          20.2     108.2        10.0        67.4
2nd (1/96-6/96)           17.1     125.3        10.5        77.9
Fm
1st (7/96-12/96)           13.8    139.1        10.3        88.2
2nd (1/97-6/97)           -        139.1         5.0        93.2
Em
lst (7/97-12/97)          .        139.1         2.6        95.8
*Special Account



-78 -                         ANEX  12
Page 1
SECOND TALIL NIDU NUTRITION PROJET
SeleCtee Doumnts A-vailble In the Proiect File
A.    Renorts and Tables Relevent to the Project
A-1. Project Proposal--Second TamiL Nadu Integrated Nucrition Project. Govt.
of Tamil Nadu, January, 1990.
A-2   Proosals for EyAluation Comnonnt of Tamil NAd  Irare  Nutrition
Project II. Department of Evaluation and Applied Research. Govt. of
Tamil Nadu, January, 1990.
A3    Draft Prosect Completion Re2ort, Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
Project. IDA, March, 1990.
A-4   Tamil Nadu Intograted Nutrition Project--Terminal Evaluation.
Department of Evaluation and Applied Research, Govt. of Tamil Nadu,
1989.
A-5   Base Line Survey Report on Innovative Scheme for Reducing D1R and MMR.
Department of Evaluation and Applied Research. Govt. of Tamil Nadu,
September, 1989.
A-6 Base Line Survey Report on Innovative Scheme for Family Planning
Assistance Area. Department of Evaluation and Applied Research, Govt.
of Tamil Nadu, September, 1989.
A-7  Working Papers presented at TINP Workshop sponsored by Govt. of Tamil
Nadu, August, 1989.
A-8   Mid-Term Impact Project Evaluation Renort of Tamil Nadu InteSrated
Nutrition Project. Department of Evaluation and Applied Research,
Govt. of Tamil Nadu, 1984.
A-9   Chief Minister's Nutritious Neal Pro  m     An Aq2a&L. Devadas, Dr.
Rajammal P. Government of Tamil Nadu, 1987.
A-10  Meals and Noon Meals in South Inda:        and Nutritign Policy in the
Rural Eood Economy of Tamil Nadu State. Harriss, Barbara,University of
East Anglia, 1986.
A-ll  Reort of the Workina gXgug on Nutritign (for Eighth Plan). 'S
Planning Commission, Govt. of Tamil Nadu, October, 1989.
A-12U roving Nutrition in lndia, Policies and Proar        &aa  Thir- g
K. Subbarao. World Bank Diseussion Paper No.49, 1989.



ANNEX 12
- 79                             Page 2
B. General and Cgonsultant Reports and Studioes
B-1   Civil Works. Laroya, H. February, 1990.
B-2   Communications. Mehra, S. March, 1990
B-3   Health and Nutrition Service Delivery. Kevany, Dr. John. March, 1990.
B-4   Monitoring and Evaluation Component. Shekar, M. March, 1990.
B-5   Impact Evaluation of the Tamilnadu Integrated Nutrition Project.
Martorell, Dr. Reynaldo. June, 1987.
B-6   Collection. Modification and Dissemination of Nutrition and Health
Education Materials. A Research Report. National Institute of Public
Cooperation and Child Development. Irdia. March, 1989.
B-7   Developing Nutrition Service and Training CaDabilities. National
Institute of Health and Family Welfare. India. 1987.



- 80 -
CHART I
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Organization of PrOleCt NanaejMnt
PROJECT COORDINATOR
FJO-----T COORDUNATOR (HEALT)      1
PROJECT COORDINATOR S                  COKUNICATION AID
OFFICE                             TRAINING CENTER
JC OPERATIONS        JC NUTRITION       IJC COMNUNICATIONS        JC TRAINING
RESEARCH & IMONITORING  l  l    l                                  l
AD PLUS              AD PLUS       S            AD PLU8AD _              S
SECTION              SUCTICTION TION                               SECTION
JC   Joint Coordinator
DD - Deputy Director
AD - Assistant Director



- 81 -
INDIA
SECOND TAMIL NADU NIITION PROJECT
District and Block Level OranzatLnal StZr=uSu
|DISTRICT COLLECTOR__
DPO (D10)
District Level     DPNO      DCO        Si        PUN
CHN      NO
Block Level
_CN1     BEE _
Village Level                CWO      CNW       TBA
&WPO    District Project Officer               DIO   - DLsttLet Ivinuization Officer
DPNO  * District Project Nutrition Officer     SI    - Statistic6l Inspector
PHN   - Public Health Nurse                    No    * Medical Officer
CHN   - Community Health Nurse                 CNI   - Comunity qNutritLon
BEE   * Block ExtensLon Educator                            Instructr S
CNS   - Comunity Nutritlon Supervlsor          SHN   * sector Health Nurse
VHN   * Village Health Nurse                   Coo   - CoZiunty Welfare
CM   - Coimunity Nutrition Worker (TINP)                    Orgpiser (NIP)
TB    - Traditional Birth Attendant            DCO   - District Couoications
Officer



