Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2158 IN
               (Second Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 14, 1990
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2158 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1990, between
INDIA, acting by its President, (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested
the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Project
State (as herein defined) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Project State the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
Page  2
herewith between the Association and the Project State;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among
the Association and the Project State of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Area" means the geographic area
comprising the  districts of Coimbatore, Dindigul,
Dharmapuri, Kanyakumari, Kamarajar, Madurai, Nellai
Kattabomman, North Arcot, Pasuponmuthuramalingam, Ramnad,
Periyar, Salem, Sambuvarayar, South Arcot, Thanjavur,
Tiruchirapalli, and V.O. Chidambaranar in the Project
State and includes such other districts therein as may be
agreed to by the Borrower and the Association;
      (c)   "Project State" means the State of Tamil Nadu,
a State of India, or any successor thereof; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-three
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
73,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December
31, 1997 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Page  3
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service
charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2000 and
ending April 15, 2025. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 2010 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
Page  4
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause the Project State to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of the Project State therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project
State to perform such obligations, and shall not take, or
permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available to the Project State in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Section
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out by the
Project State pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting
                  practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)         ensure that all records (contracts,
                        orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                        and other documents) evidencing such
                        expenditures are retained until at
Page  5
                        least one year after the Association
                        has received the audit report for
                        the fiscal year in which the last
                        withdrawal from the Credit Account
                        was made; and
          (iii)         enable the Association's
                        representatives to examine such
                        records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and
                  those for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)         furnish to the Association as soon
                        as available, but in any case not
                        later than nine months after the end
                        of each such year the report of such
                        audit by said auditors, of such
                        scope and in such detail as the
                        Association shall have reasonably
                        requested, including a separate
                        opinion by said auditors as to
                        whether the statements of expendi-
                        ture submitted during such fiscal
                        year, together with the procedures
                        and internal controls involved in
                        their preparation, can be relied
                        upon to support the related
                        withdrawals; and
          (iii)         furnish to the Association such
                        other information concerning said
                        records and accounts and the audit
                        thereof as the Association shall
                        from time to time reasonably
                        request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   The Project State shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Project State will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Project State, and is
legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.03 and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INDIA
Page  7
                  By /s/ Anil Kumar
                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                         Regional Vice President
                         Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                        Amount of
                        the Credit
                        Allocated
                        (Expressed                        % of
                        in SDR                           Expenditures
Category                Equivalent)                     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                2,200,000                90%
(2) Medicines, drugs,         19,000,000                100% of foreign
    equipment,                                          expenditures,
    furniture, books                                    100% of local
    and materials                                       expenditures,
                                                        (ex-factory costs)
                                                        and 80% of local
                                                        expenditures for
                                                        other items pro-
                                                        cured locally
(3) Vehicles                   2,400,000                65%
(4) Consultants'               4,800,000                90%
    services and
    training
(5) Incremental               18,900,000                60% of local
    therapeutic                                         expenditures
    nutrition
    supplements
    under Parts
    A(2) and (3)
    of the Project
                        Amount of
                        the Credit
                        Allocated
                        (Expressed                        % of
                        in SDR                         Expenditures
Category                Equivalent)                    to be Financed
(6) Incremental         23,900,000               60% of local
    Operating Costs                              expenditures
(7) Unallocated          2,300,000
Page  8
                        __________
      TOTAL             73,500,000
                        ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means
the incremental costs for salaries and allowances,
honoraria, operation and maintenance costs, and supplies.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after September 30, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the
nutrition and health status of children under 6 years of
age, with special emphasis on children 6-36 months of
age, and pregnant and nursing women in the Project Area
with the aim to (a) reduce severe and moderate
malnutrition among children, (b) increase the proportion
of adequately nourished children, and (c) contribute
towards a reduction in the infant mortality rate and the
incidence of low birth weight.
      The Project consists of the following parts, to be
carried out in the Project Area, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:     Improvement of Service Delivery
1.    Increasing the range, coverage and quality of
nutrition and health services for pregnant and nursing
women and children under 6 years of age through (a)
upgrading, integration and expansion of existing
Community Nutrition Centers and Nutritious Meals Centers,
(b) construction, furnishing and equipping of about 500
new Community Nutrition Centers, and (c) construction and
establishment of maternal and child health referral and
training facilities.
2.    Provision of antenatal, obstetric, and postnatal
care to women, health and nutrition education, and
therapeutic nutrition supplements for women at risk of
low birth weight children during pregnancy and for up to
six months after they deliver.
3.    Monitoring growth, immunization, deworming, managing
acute respiratory infection, carrying out health check-
ups, provision of Vitamin A, referral and rehabilitation
of children under six years of age, therapeutic nutrition
supplements to children 6-36 months of age who are
Page  9
moderately or severely malnourished or whose growth is
faltering, and pre-school education for children aged 36-
72 months.
4.    Provision of drugs and medicines to pregnant and
nursing women, and children under six years of age.
5.    Provision of motor and other vehicles for the
purposes of the Project.
6.    Promotion of coordination between health and
nutrition services and strengthening of the referral
system.
Part B:     Communications and Community Participation
1.    Strengthening communication activities through
development of a communication strategy and provision of
inputs for mass and inter-personal use.
2.    Strengthening the Communications and Training Center
to enhance the institutional capability in Communications
research, production and evaluation and monitoring.
3.    Provision of community education, including
formation of new and strengthening of existing women's
groups.
Part C:     Project Management and Evaluation
1.    Developing software systems of training,
supervision, work organization, and monitoring and
evaluation.
2.    Carrying out of innovative activities designed to
further the objectives of the Project.
3.    Strengthening of the Project Coordination Office of
the Project State.
4.    Carrying out of baseline surveys, mid-term and final
reviews and evaluations of the Project.
Part D:     Training and Studies
1.    Provision of health and nutrition education to women
and community leaders.
2.    Provision of pre-service training, orientation
training, regular in-service training and problem solving
workshops for health and nutrition staff.
3.    Provision of consultants' services and studies and
operations research in respect of Parts A to C of the
Project.
                      *          *         *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement;
Page  10
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in  respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the  proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to  the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of  Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to  it that the Special Account has been
duly opened, withdrawals of  the Authorized Allocation
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish  the Special
Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the  Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests  for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount  of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or  requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the  Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association  requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account  at such intervals as
                  the Association shall  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association The documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis
                  of  each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the  Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special  Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall  reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and  other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for  eligible
expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this  Schedule, the Association shall not be required
to make further  deposits into the Special Account:
Page  11
            (i)   if, at any time, the Association shall
                  have determined that all further
                  withdrawals should be made by the
                  Borrower directly from the Credit Account
                  in accordance with the provisions  of
                  Article V of the General Conditions and
                  paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
                  Development Credit Agreement; or
           (ii)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the
                  Credit allocated to the eligible
                  Categories, less the amount of any
                  outstanding special commitment entered
                  into by the Association pursuant to
                  Section 5.02 of the respective General
                  Conditions with respect to the Project,
                  shall equal the equivalent of twice the
                  amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time  that any payment out of the Special Account: (i)
was made for an  expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2  of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished  to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from  the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the  Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account  (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time  that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be  required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund  to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association,  refund to the Association all or any
portion of the  funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant  to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account, for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
