 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14736

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 06/05/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P122810                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Fourth National             Project Costs (US$M):                1,283.7             1,441.3
                         Program For
                         Community
                         Empowerment In
                         Rural A
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                   531.2               525.0
      Sector Board:      Social Development          Cofinancing (US$M):                    26.1               18.18

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              07/14/2011
                                                               Closing Date:           06/30/2014         06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (24%); Irrigation and drainage (19%); Rural and
                          Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (19%); General water; sanitation and flood protection
                          sector (19%); Pre-primary education (19%)
         Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Population and reproductive health (25%); Child
                          health (25%); Participation and civic engagement (13%); Other rural development (12%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. vi) and the Loan Agreement (p. 5), the objective of the project
    was “that villagers in PNPM [National Community Empowerment Program] rural locations benefit from improved
    socio-economic and local governance conditions."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project consisted of four components:

    Component 1: Kecamatan Grants (appraisal estimate US $ 1,097.6 million, actual US$ 1,112.5 million, 101% of
    appraisal estimate): This project was to finance block grants to sub-districts (kecamatans) for investing in
    high-priority infrastructure, providing micro-credit loans for women’s groups through a revolving loan fund,
    supporting social safety programs for the poor and the most vulnerable groups of the population, and investing in
    activities to address disasters, emergencies and catastrophes. This component was also to finance block grants
    for three specific programs: i) National Community Empowerment Program (PNPM-Generasi) to support the
    achievement of the health- and education-related Millennium Development Goals; ii) PNPM-Green, a pilot
    program to promote community investments in natural resource management and renewable energy; and iii)
    PNPM–Strategic Plan for Village Development (RESPEK), a regional block grant scheme for villages in the
   provinces of Papua and West Papua. A fourth program, PNPM-Village Prosperity Grant (BPKG), while not
   receiving direct financing from this project, used the project’s facilitators and operating systems.

   Component 2: Facilitation Support (appraisal estimate US $ 110.8 million, actual US$ 205 million, 185% of
   appraisal estimate): This component was to finance capacity building of district and sub-district governmental
   institutions and communities in the areas of development planning and investing through social and technical
   facilitators in sub-districts and districts.

   Component 3: Implementation Support and Technical Assistance (appraisal estimate US $ 36.8 million, actual
   US$ 80 million, 218% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the hiring of consultants and
   facilitators to support project implementation, the strategic development of the National Community
   Empowerment Program, the project’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program, and audits.

   Component 4: Project Management Support (appraisal estimate US $ 38.5 million, actual US$ 43.8 million,
   114% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance technical advisory services to support the Village
   Community Empowerment program and special programs under the National Community Empowerment
   Program.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project costs: The project was estimated to cost US$ 1,283.7 million. Actual project costs were US$ 1,441.3
   million (112% of appraisal estimate).

   Financing: The project was financed as follows:

        A US$ 531.2 million IBRD loan, of which US$ 525.0 million was disbursed (99% of appraisal estimate).
        US$ 26.1 million from co-financiers (USAID, and the governments of the Netherlands, Australia, Denmark,
         UK and the European Union), of which US$ 18.18 million was disbursed (69.6% of appraisal estimate).

   Borrower Contribution :

        The borrower was expected to contribute US$ 691.1 million, with US$ 495.3 million from the national budget
         and US$ 195.8 million from local government budgets. The actual government contribution was US$ 875.2
         million (127% of appraisal estimate).

        The communities were expected to contribute US$ 35.3 million. Their actual contribution was US$ 41.2
         million (116% of appraisal estimate).

   Dates: The project was not restructured. It closed as scheduled on June 30, 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: The objective for villagers in PNPM rural locations to benefit from improved socio-economic and
   local governance conditions was substantially relevant given Indonesia’s aim to alleviate poverty through the
   implementation of the National Program for Community Empowerment. Indonesia's economy has been growing
   strongly, and between 2004 and 2010 poverty rates decreased from 17.4 % to 13.3%. However, at appraisal 31
   million people still lived below the national poverty line of US$ 22 per month, and approximately 50% of all
   households were vulnerable to falling below the poverty line. 65% of people living in poverty lived in rural areas
   with limited income, work opportunities, and delivery of basic services. The objective was in line with Indonesia’s
   efforts to increase public participation, improve governance, and foster economic recovery. The project was also
   in line with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (2009-2012) at the time of appraisal, which identified
   community development as one of the five thematic focus areas for Bank engagement. The strategy also
   highlighted the importance of cross-cutting cooperation with government counterparts and stakeholders to
   strengthen central and sub-national government institutions and systems. Also, the objective of the project was in
   line with the current Country Partnership Strategy (2013-2015), which defines six thematic areas including: i) the
   promotion of communities, protecting the vulnerable, and improving health outcomes; ii) ensuring sustainable
   development and improving disaster resilience; and iii) gender and governance. However, it is a minor
   shortcoming that the project objectives were broad and not well defined.

b. Relevance of Design:
   Substantial: The project's design was relevant and built on previous Bank-financed projects. The project was
   part of a sector-wide programmatic approach including PNPM-Rural I, II, and III. This project (PNPM-Rural IV)
   was a continuation of PNPM-Rural III, aiming to consolidate PNPM as a national program and therefore
   becoming the world's largest community-driven development program. The project was designed around block
   grants for communities, as well as technical assistance for the project’s implementation, M&E and audit
   programs. The underlying assumptions about how program actions would lead to intended outcomes were
   logical and properly laid out. However, the project's design did not include a village poverty mapping, to be
   conducted before project implementation, to provide accurate data on the number and location of project
   beneficiaries; according to the project team, the project did not have the necessary methodological tools to make
   more accurate statistical approximations either ex-ante or ex-post.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved socio-economic and local governance conditions.

   Outputs relevant to both objectives :

        The project funded over 150,000 proposals in the amount of 24,400 billion Rupiahs in areas identified in
         community development plans. These areas included infrastructure, social programs, and revolving loan
         funds.
        Over 50% of these proposals were developed by women's groups.
        The amount of block grants was between US$ 80,000 to US$ 320,000 depending on population, poverty
         incidence, and location.
        In 2013, 63,169 villages in 32 of Indonesia's 33 provinces were funded under the project. Over 28 million
         beneficiaries, and over 15.8 million poor beneficiaries, benefited from the project in 2013. This did not
         achieve the target of 49 million beneficiaries. Coverage was relatively low compared to predecessor
         projects. The reason for this lowered coverage could be a decrease of the average block grant amount (by
         approximately 25% between 2010 and 2013), and the lack of a village poverty mapping, which could have
         helped to provide a more accurate targeting scheme.
        14.6 million beneficiaries were female, not achieving the target of 24 million.
        Overall participation of the poorest was 51%, achieving the target of 50%. According to the Task Team
         Leader of the project, "the poorest" were defined by the individual communities through a social mapping
         exercise at the beginning of each project cycle. Statistically, this was roughly equivalent to the bottom 40%
         of households by income in each village.


   Villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved socio-economic conditions :
   Modest

   Outputs

   According to the project MIS system, sub-projects financed the following:
     50,065 kilometers of village roads;
     8,189 small bridges;
     12,706 irrigation systems (9.98 million miles of irrigation);
     61,990 water supply facilities;
     22,944 communal sanitation facilities;
     1,803 public markets;
     9,527 electrification projects;
     42,838 meters of docks and jetties;
     22,163 education infrastructure projects;
     622,910 education non-infrastructure projects;
     99,829 health infrastructure projects; and
     976,051 health non-infrastructure projects.
     The ICR reports that 90% of infrastructure projects built by the program were still functioning one to five
       years after construction, but it is not possible that this result refers only to the results of this project, as five
       years have not yet passed since this project became effective.
     The project financed Revolving Loan Funds (RLF) for 47,000 women's groups annually. Outcomes of
       investments in RLFs are not reflected in the project's results framework; however, PMD tracked RLF
       outputs, and a RLF evaluation was to be conducted in the first quarter of 2015.
     Annually 1.5 to 2 million people received temporary employment, of which 80% were classified as poor.
    Outcomes

        According to the annual socio-economic survey, per capita expenditure nationwide increased from IDR
         387.787 in 2011 to 475,952 in 2013. The ICR does not specify whether these data take inflation into
         account. The percentage of the population below the national poverty line decreased from 12.36% in 2011
         to 11.47% in 2013. It is not clear to what extent these improvements are attributable to project-financed
         investments.
        A technical evaluation conducted across 29 sub-projects built in 2012-2013 showed that 27 (93%) had a
         functional community operations and maintenance team. The ICR (p. 14) indicates that these findings serve
         as a proxy for satisfaction levels, as communities would not maintain infrastructure from which they did not
         benefit. However, it is not clear that these 29 surveyed sub-projects are representative of the thousands that
         were funded.
        The ICR presents outcome and impact data covering the time period of predecessor projects, but very
         limited outcome information that covers the time period of this project.


    Villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved local governance conditions:
    Substantial

    Outputs

        The project financed 13,000 facilitators in 2012 and 13,400 facilitators in 2013 to support the development of
         planning and project management capacities in the communities.
        Several studies and evaluations in different areas, including a rapid assessment of women's participation in
         PNPM, local level governance review, rate of return analysis of PNPM rural infrastructure sub-projects, and
         a village infrastructure census, were conducted.
        100% of villages received socialization material packages for the project, exceeding the target of 70%.
        90% of oversight consultants and facilitators were paid on time in full every month, surpassing the target of
         80%.
        98% of Kecamatan grants were disbursed and accounted for, surpassing the target of 80%.
        87% of planned facilitator positions were filled by 2012, not achieving the target of at least 90%. All
         facilitators received 21 days of training.
        425 project management units were established, surpassing the target of 400.

    Outcomes

        225,000 grant proposals were facilitated in accordance with the PNPM-rural guidelines through facilitators
         financed by the project.
        95% of participating villages complied with the PNPM rural project cycle.
        75% of infrastructure implemented under sub-projects complied with technical standards as stated in the
         Operational Technical Guidelines.
        In 2012 and 2013, audit sample sizes were 17.6% and 18.6% respectively. However, taking into account
         audits that were received after deadlines, the sample sizes would be above 20% and would achieve the
         target of 20%.

5. Efficiency:

    Modest: The PAD did not conduct an economic efficiency analysis. The average unweighted Economic Internal
    Rate of Return (EIRR) for a sample of 48 small-scale infrastructure projects (implemented in the 2007-2011
    period) was approximately 97%. This project’s target for the economic internal rate of return was above 30%. The
    ICR assumes that the average EIRR for sub-projects financed by this project would be lower than for the
    predecessor project for the following reasons:
    i) The prior study did not include sub-projects that are no longer functional, estimated at 11% of total of
    sub-projects.
    ii) The prior study assumed constant benefits for a sub-project over time, not taking into account likely declines in
    benefits due to maintenance issues.
    iii) The prior study assumed a low shadow wage rate factor for unskilled labor.
    iv) Most sub-districts covered by the prior study had already received several rounds of block grants. Therefore, it
    can be assumed that the most economically viable sub-projects had already been financed.

    The ICR states (p. 32) that the average EIRR of most project-financed sub-projects lies between 12% (the
    economic opportunity cost of capital) and 30%, but not necessarily above the project target of 30%. However, this
    is an informed estimate, as no actual calculations were conducted.
   Given the lack of an EIRR analysis of the project's investments and the ICR's estimate that the average
   sub-project EIRR did not achieve the target of 30%, efficiency is rated Modest.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                              Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                      No
   ICR estimate                   No
                                     * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of the objectives is substantial given Indonesia’s aim to alleviate poverty through community driven
   development. Relevance of design is substantial, although it was a minor shortcoming that project design did not
   include a poverty mapping to identify potential beneficiaries more accurately. There is substantial evidence of
   improved local governance, but only modest outcome evidence is provided that the large investment in rural
   sub-projects resulted in improved socio-economic conditions. Efficiency is modest given the lack of a concrete
   economic analysis. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of moderate shortcomings in the project's
   preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The central and local governments have been strongly committed to community-driven development and have
   stated a long-term interest in financing programs on community-based poverty eradication. Currently, the
   government and the parliament are discussing next steps for the PNPM program and how it has to be adapted to
   complement the government’s new village law program. However, infrastructure investments on the village level
   face the risk of poor operation and maintenance due to lack of direct personal benefits to the individual. Also,
   there is a risk related to the challenges of transferring project assets to communities with effective governance
   and ownership. Therefore, the risk to development outcome is rated moderate.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project built on previous PNPM-Rural projects and took lessons learned from past implementation
   experience into account. The Bank team consisted of members who had significant experience in
   supervising Bank-financed community-driven development projects in Indonesia. The Bank identified several
   relevant risk factors such as institutional and managerial capacity of the Directorate General of Village
   Community Empowerment (PMD), formal and informal fiduciary and governance controls, and availability of
   qualified facilitators. Also, the risk of using the already over-burdened management information system was
   identified. However, mitigation efforts were not sufficient for addressing these risks, which led to delays in
   project implementation and a weak monitoring system. Another weakness of the project design was related
   to overly centralized program management despite the project’s wide national coverage, which also led to
   delays in project implementation. In addition, the results framework had several significant shortcomings (see
   Section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   The ICR (p. 20) states several areas where the Bank proactively addressed challenges: data accuracy and
   quality, budget execution and revision, consultant staff performance, and environmental safeguards.
   However, the ICR does not comment on exactly how the Bank addressed these challenges. The Bank
   assisted the PMD in introducing more competitive bidding for project management services, raising salaries
   to attract better-qualified facilitators, and developing implementation guidelines for social environmental
   safeguards.

   The Bank could not sufficiently address the challenge regarding the management information system, and
   delays in the submission of data from the village level to the national level led to poor tracking of indicators.
   The Bank supported the design of a Revolving Loan Fund pilot evaluation to assess outputs and processes
   and to conduct an analysis of women's loan and saving characteristics. However, it is not clear if these
   mitigation efforts were sufficient to address the shortcomings of tracking indicators through the management
   information system.

   The environmental safeguard was appropriately addressed during project implementation; however, the
   safeguard for indigenous peoples had some shortcomings (see Section 11a).



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government was committed to the preparation and implementation of the project. During project
   preparation, the government collaborated with stakeholders at the central and sub-national level as well as
   with non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations. All participating district
   governments contributed financially to the implementation of the project. The government ensured that funds
   were submitted to the communities in a timely manner.

   Due to the delays in collecting and reviewing M&E data, the two ministerial working groups for the National
   Community Empowerment Program and the National Development and Planning Board often did not act
   pro-actively to address potential implementation issues but rather reacted once issues materialized.

   When two provinces faced delays due to the challenge of hiring qualified facilitators, the government
   increased the salaries for facilitators in mid-2013 and allowed the recruitment of technical facilitators in those
   provinces through an on-the-job training program.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The implementing agency, the Directorate General of Village Community Empowerment (PMD), was
   committed to achieving the development objectives. The PMD faced several challenges, particularly
   insufficient capacity for the centralized management of this large nation-wide project, which led to delays in
   addressing problems. Also, the PMD sometimes did not adequately collaborate with other directorates,
   resulting in inconsistency in the implementation of certain policies across different sub-projects. The ICR
   does not comment on how these challenges were addressed.

   After the mid-term review, the PMD improved the operations manual, established a joint secretary of
   PNPN-rural and related programs, and initiated the redesign of the management information system. The
   Bank advised the PMD also to improve the performance of the project in remote areas by strengthening
   fiduciary safeguards for revolving loan funds, improving the financial benefits for facilitators. However, due to
   operational difficulties, the PMD could not implement those suggestions. The ICR does not comment on what
   operational difficulties were encountered.
  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The objective “that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved socio-economic and local governance
   conditions” was not clearly specified and rather broad.

   The Results Framework in the PAD consisted of five PDO indicators and 15 intermediate outcome indicators
   (IOIs). The Results Framework had several substantial shortcomings. The majority of indicators focused on
   outputs rather than outcomes, such as IOI 2 ("more than 85% of agreed work plans completed each year") or IOI
   3 ("more than 70% of infrastructure works are evaluated as high quality"). The link between these indicators and
   progress towards the achievement of the PDO is not clear. Some indicators tried to measure more than one
   achievement. Several indicators focused on the number or percentage of certain beneficiary groups that
   benefited from the project, even though equity or access for certain groups is not stated in the PDO. Also, the
   indicator aiming to measure “sub-districts with completed sub-projects by 2011” was not relevant, since funding
   for sub-projects was only disbursed after 2011. Several indicators measured who benefited from the project, but
   no definition of what “benefit” means in this context was provided. Also, the Results Framework did not measure
   the impact of investments from the Revolving Loan Fund on the socio-economic conditions of the recipients.

   The management information system, which was already in place from the previous PNPM-Rural III project, was
   used for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the project. Also, several surveys and studies were
   planned to complement data from the management information system.


b. M&E Implementation:

   The implementation of M&E encountered challenges, such as delays in data reporting due to difficulties in
   transmitting large amounts of data from the village to the national level. In order to address this issue, the
   Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade was asked to hire a firm to redesign the management
   information system. However, due to delays in finalizing the design specifications, the new system was not
   operational at project closing.

   Additional studies and surveys were conducted to compensate for the lack of data from the management
   information system. However, some of the data used for tracking progress measured different achievements
   than originally planned. For example, the PDO indicator measuring the Economic Internal Rate of Return for
   major rural infrastructure investments used data from a sample of small-scale infrastructure projects financed by
   predecessor projects. Some indicators that were designed to measure more than one achievement report data
   on just just one dimension in the ICR's datasheet (ICR, p. vii).

   The project lost control groups for PDO-level indicators when the project was scaled up nation-wide. In order to
   compensate for this loss, the project used data from the 2012 Impact Evaluation Study and conducted two
   additional technical surveys.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (p. 9) states that findings from studies, surveys and monitoring and evaluation were used to improve
   project performance, but it does not provide evidence to support this statement. Since the management
   information system could not provide data in a timely manner, the project had to base project monitoring on
   findings of supervision missions, surveys, and studies.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as category B and triggered safeguard OP/BP 4.01 (environmental assessment) and
   OP/BP 4.10 (indigenous people). The environmental safeguard policy was triggered because of the possible
   adverse environmental impact of construction activities. The indigenous safeguard policy was triggered to ensure
   that, despite weak governance in some diverse provinces such as Papua, indigenous people equally benefited
   from the project. However, none of the project activities caused significant adverse impacts. The implementation
   guidelines for social and environmental safeguards were prepared and disclosed in 2013. When the Operational
   Technical Guidelines were revised, the safeguard guidelines were re-disclosed in March 2014. The
   environmental safeguards rating was consistently rated as Satisfactory throughout project implementation.
   Compliance with the safeguard policy on indigenous people was not satisfactory, however, as participation of
   indigenous people in some provinces was weak. The ICR (p. 10) states that a review mission was conducted in
   mid-2014 to address this issue of social exclusion. However, in June 2014 the project was already closing;
   therefore, it is uncertain if these mitigation efforts had any positive impact.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   In 2012 and 2013, the project received an unqualified opinion from an external auditor. The PMD ensured that
   local governments addressed the findings by the external auditor. However, there were often delays, and audit
   coverage in 2012 and 2013 was 17.6% and 18.6%, just below the target of 20%. However, if reports that were
   submitted after June 30 of each year were also taken into account, coverage would be above 20%.

   The project encountered some financial management issues related to the accounting of revolving loan funds
   and the implementation of proactive management strategies to address loan loss reserves. Also, some
   provinces lacked qualified financial facilitators. These challenges were addressed by the PMD by increasing the
   salaries of financial facilitators to get better qualified candidates, and improving the revolving loan funds reporting
   system. Also, the PMD requested a stop in block grants for revolving loan funds, which had high levels of
   non-performing loans and unused funds.

   Procurement

   Complexity and lack of transparency of community procurement procedures resulted in delays. However,
   improvements were made, and the simplified procedures are included in the new Operational Technical
   Guidelines.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                 IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately                  Moderately
                            Satisfactory                Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Moderate                    Moderate
                   Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory              Moderately              Several significant shortcomings in the
                                                        Satisfactory            Results Framework and insufficient
                                                                                efforts to mitigate risks identified during
                                                                                project preparation.
      Borrower Performance : Moderately                 Moderately
                                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (p. 21) identifies several valuable lessons, including the following:

    When designing a Results Framework for a project, it is important that indicators and targets relevant to
     desired project outcomes are clearly defined, and that these indicators are continuously tracked during project
     implementation. In this project, the selected indicators were weakly linked to project objectives and only
     measured on an ad hoc basis, which did not allow for continuous progress tracking.
    Since the quality of facilitators is essential for the success of a community-driven development program, it is
     important to provide appropriate training and competitive salaries. Facilitators should be trained before they are
     sent to the field and be continuously informed about revisions that are made to standard operating procedures
     and other important guidelines. In this project, salaries were raised in order to attract qualified facilitators in
     Papua and West Papua.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR provides a solid overview of project preparation and implementation. However, this was a complex
     project, and the ICR does not explain well how the different programs under the project contributed to achieving
     the PDOs. Also, the ICR does not provide sufficient information on critical areas such as implementation
     challenges, procurement, and M&E. Even though the ICR often mentions delays in project implementation, it
     does not state how these delays were addressed by the Bank, the PMD, or other stakeholders. Most importantly,
     the ICR makes it frequently difficult to discern whether cited studies/evaluations are providing data and analysis
     relevant to this project, or to a predecessor project. The ICR often seems to claim results from predecessor
     projects as relevant to this project; for example, for almost every PDO-level indicator covered in the ICR's Data
     Sheet, the data provided are for years prior to this project's effectiveness. The ICR does not provide an
     economic efficiency analysis. Taking all these shortcomings into account, the ICR is rated Unsatisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
