                                        CONFORMED COPY

                                     LOAN NUMBER 8079-ID




    Loan Agreement

    (Fourth National Program for Community
         Empowerment in Rural Areas)


                   between



         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                     and



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




              Dated July 27, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT dated, July 27, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (“Borrower?) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred thirty one million one
        hundred ninety thousand United States Dollars (US$531,190,000), as such
        amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan?), to
        assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
        (“Project?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
                                           -2-



2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
        end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Home
        Affairs in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
        ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
                                       -3-



5.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

               Ministry of Finance
               c/o Directorate General of Debt Management
               Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
               Jakarta 10710
               Indonesia

               Cable address:            Telex:                        Facsimile:

               FINMINISTRY 45799         DJMLN-IA                      (21) 381 2859
               Jakarta                   44319 DEPKEU-IA

5.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:            Telex:                        Facsimile:

               INTBAFRAD                 248423(MCI) or                1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)
                                           -4-



           AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above
written.



                                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                                 By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto



                                                           Authorized Representative




                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                 By: /s/ Stefan Koeberle



                                                           Authorized Representative
                                          -5-



                                    SCHEDULE 1

                                  Project Description


The objective of the Project is that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from
improved socio-economic and local governance conditions.

       The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Kecamatan Grants

(a)    Provision of Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries to support:

       (i)     planning for community development, including the preparation of Sub-
               Project proposals;

       (ii)    training and capacity building, including in development planning and
               investment;

       (iii)   investment in social and economic infrastructure identified through
               community development planning;

       (iv)    investment in activities identified through community development
               planning using Revolving Funds;

       (v)     preparing for and responding to disaster, emergency or catastrophic
               events, as needed, through Sub-projects and/or using the Project
               implementation arrangements; and

(b)    Provision of Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries for Pilot and Special Programs.

Part 2: Facilitation Support

Provision of technical advisory services, training and other material support, through
Facilitators, to strengthen the capacity of Kabupaten and Kecamatan government
institutions and communities in development planning and investment.

Part 3: Implementation Support and Technical Assistance

Provision of technical advisory services, training and other material support for PNPM
implementation at National-, Province-, Kabupaten-, and Kecamatan- levels, including
training of Facilitators, monitoring and evaluation and enhanced technical and financial
audits.
                                        -6-



Part 4: Project Management Support

Provision of technical advisory services and other material support to strengthen PMD
and support the management of the incremental activities generated by the Project.
                                          -7-



                                    SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.     Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements.

1.      At the National level, the Borrower shall:

        (a)    ensure that the Project shall be implemented under the umbrella of
               PNPM, and subject to the overall guidance of Pokja Pengendali PNPM;

        (b)    through MOHA, designate PMD to be responsible for the overall
               management and monitoring of the Project; and

        (c)    except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree in writing,
               cause PMD to:

               (i)     maintain, until the completion of the Project, the PMD
                       Secretariat, with a mandate, staff composition, filled staff
                       positions and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the
                       Borrower, to be responsible for the management and monitoring
                       of the Project;

               (ii)    ensure that the PMD Secretariat shall be provided with adequate
                       resources, and supported by qualified personnel in adequate
                       numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project;

               (iii)   ensure that the Project shall be supported by a suitably qualified
                       Project Manager and by National Management Consultants to
                       oversee Project facilitation and technical assistance in accordance
                       with the Operations Manual, in each case with terms of reference
                       satisfactory to Borrower, through PMD, and the Bank; and

               (iv)    ensure coordination, as necessary, with the Pokja Pengendali
                       PNPM.

2.      At the Regional level, the Borrower shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank
        may otherwise agree in writing, ensure that the Project is supported by Regional
        Management Consultants to oversee the quality of Project implementation in the
        Provinces assigned by PMD to the each respective regional grouping in
        accordance with the Operations Manual, and in each case with terms of reference
        satisfactory to PMD and the Bank.
                                      -8-



3.   At the Province level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower
     may otherwise agree in writing:

     (a)    cause to be established in each Province prior to the disbursement of any
            Kecamatan Grant in such Province, and thereafter maintained until the
            completion of the Project, a Provincial Satker, to be responsible for the
            day-to-day implementation of the Project at the Province-level, with a
            mandate, composition, filled staff positions and terms of reference
            acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, through PMD, and set out in
            the Operations Manual;

     (b)    ensure that each Provincial Satker shall be provided with adequate
            resources, and supported by qualified personnel in adequate numbers as
            needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including, a Province-
            level PJOProv, and Province-level Oversight Consultants under the
            supervision of the Regional Management Consultants responsible for the
            relevant Province;

     (c)    ensure that each Provincial Satker shall coordinate Project activities, as
            necessary, with the Provincial Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team
            responsible for its respective Province; and

     (d)    ensure that the appointment letter (surat keputusan) for each Provincial
            Satker is issued in a timely manner early in each fiscal year of Project
            implementation.

4.   At the Kabupaten level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower
     may otherwise agree in writing:

     (a)    cause to be established in each Project Kabupaten prior to the
            disbursement of any Kecamatan Grant in such Project Kabupaten, and
            thereafter maintained until the completion of the Project, a Kabupaten
            Satker, to be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the
            Project at the Kabupaten and Kecamatan levels, with a mandate,
            composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the
            Borrower, as set out in the Operations Manual;

     (b)    ensure that each Kabupaten Satker shall be provided with adequate
            resources, and supported by qualified personnel in adequate numbers as
            needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including, a
            Kabupaten-level PJOKab and Facilitators (including at least one
            engineer, one social organizer and one financial specialist), except as
            may be otherwise agreed in writing on a case by case basis between
            PMD and the Bank;
                                       -9-



     (c)    ensure that each Kabupaten Satker shall coordinate Project activities, as
            necessary, with the Kabupaten Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team
            responsible for its respective area; and

     (d)    ensure that the appointment letter (surat keputusan) for each Kabupaten
            Satker is issued in a timely manner early in each fiscal year of Project
            implementation.

5.   At the Kecamatan level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank the Borrower
     may otherwise agree in writing, ensure through PMD that all Sub-project
     activities are supported by at least two Facilitators (one engineer and one social
     organizer), except as may be otherwise agreed in writing on a case by case basis
     between PMD and the Bank.

6.   At the Village level, the Borrower, through PMD, shall, except as the Bank and
     the Borrower may otherwise agree in writing, maintain institutional
     arrangements at the village level in accordance with the Operations Manual.

7.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that the ASF-RMCs and the NMC are
     in place in a timely manner as necessary to facilitate implementation of the
     Project.

B.   Implementation Arrangements

1.   The Borrower shall, through the PMD:

     (a)    implement the Project in accordance with Operations Manual, including
            all annexes and supplements thereto, acceptable to the Bank and the
            Borrower, giving details of: (i) implementation arrangements;
            (ii) procurement procedures as set forth in Section III of this Schedule
            and standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting requirements,
            financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in
            Section II.B of this Schedule; (iv) project performance indicators; (v) the
            Implementation Guidelines on Social and Environmental Safeguards,
            which constitutes a supplement to the Operations Manual; (vi) Eligibility
            Criteria for the selection of Sub-projects and the terms and conditions of
            governing the Kecamatan Grants and Local Government Participation,
            including the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 1 to this
            Schedule; (vii) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under
            a Sub-project; (viii) the Better Governance Action Plan; (ix) the
            Management Information System description and procedures; and (x) the
            Complaints Handling System description and procedures;

     (b)    adopt, prior to the commencement of Sub-project selection for any Pilot
            and Special Program or Sub-project, and thereafter implement such Sub-
                                      - 10 -



            project in accordance with a Supplemental Manual, acceptable to the
            Borrower and the Bank, as necessary to set out the incremental scope of
            activities, eligibility criteria, implementation arrangements and
            disbursement mechanisms;

     (c)    adopt, prior to the Borrower undertaking any activities under Part 1(a)(v)
            of the Project with respect to any natural disaster, emergency or
            catastrophic event a Supplemental Manual, as necessary to set out the
            incremental scope of activities, eligibility criteria, implementation
            arrangements and disbursement mechanisms;

     (d)    not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the
            Operations Manual or any Supplemental Manual without the prior
            written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower;

     (e)    ensure that the Operations Manual including all annexes and
            supplements thereto, and each Supplemental Manual, as applicable, is
            made available, at all times until completion of the Project, to each Local
            Government and all National Management Consultants, Regional
            Management Consultants, Oversight Consultants and Facilitators, and
            applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and

     (f)    with the prior written agreement of the Bank, update the Operations
            Manual, and each Supplemental Manual, as necessary, at all times
            ensuring compliance thereof with the terms of this Agreement.

2.   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Operations Manual or
     any Supplemental Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the latter shall
     prevail.

3.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that, prior to the Borrower
     undertaking any activities under Part 1(a)(v) of the Project with respect to any
     natural disaster, emergency or catastrophic event, the Bank and the Borrower
     have agreed in writing that a disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic event
     requiring support for such activities has occurred.

4.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that only Sub-projects prepared,
     selected and implemented in accordance with the Eligibility Criteria and the
     terms and conditions for Sub-Projects and Kecamatan Grants set forth in Annex
     1 to this Schedule 2, the Operations Manual, and any applicable Supplemental
     Manual shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

5.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that:
                                        - 11 -



      (a)     Facilitators are assigned and trained by no later than April 30 in each
             year of Project implementation in accordance with the Operations
             Manual;

      (b)    during Project implementation, adequate budget is made for training of
             Facilitators and Oversight Consultants based on a training plan agreed in
             writing between the Bank and the Borrower; and

      (c)    prior to the commencement of each Sub-project, the technical
             Facilitator(s) for the Kabupaten or Kecamatan of the Beneficiaries
             responsible for such Sub-Project shall have completed a technical review
             of each such Sub-project in accordance with the Operations Manual and
             Supplemental Manual, as applicable, and the requirements of Annex 1 to
             this Schedule 2. The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that the
             applicable Kabupaten Satker shall retain records of each such review.

6.    The Borrower, through PMD, shall, during implementation of the Project,
      continue to develop an updated Management Information System based on
      performance indicators and control data agreed in writing between the Borrower
      and the Bank.

7.    The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that a list of Project Kecamatan, a list
      of amounts of each Kecamatan Grant and the Operations Manual are made
      available to the public through the PNPM Website, at all times until completion
      of the Project.

8.    The Borrower, through the PMD, shall ensure that the relevant Camat and
      Bupati in each Project Kecamatan and Project Kabupaten shall make publicly
      available in a manner acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank for each year of
      Project implementation by January 15 of the subsequent year, a report on the
      results of Project implementation and accounts for funds used during such year.

9.    The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that: (a) all annual audit reports
      referred to in Section II.B of this Schedule 2, including Kabupaten audit reports,
      shall be published on the PNPM Website by no later than September 30 in each
      year of Project implementation for the prior year annual audit reports,
      commencing on September 30, 2011 for the 2010 annual audit reports; and
      (b) appropriate action to follow up on any audit findings is taken at the National,
      Provincial, Kabupaten or Kecamatan level, as applicable, and reported as part of
      the regular quarterly report and made available on the PNPM Website.

10.   The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
      otherwise agree in writing: (a) BPKP shall carry out a continuous audit of the
      Project in partnership with Local Government inspectorates; and (b) on terms of
      reference agreed among PMD, BPKP and the Bank, BPKP shall, after PMD has
                                       - 12 -



      compiled each interim financial report, review such interim financial report for
      each calendar quarter during Project implementation and shall provide to the
      Bank its report of each such review not later than forty-five (45) days after the
      end of each calendar quarter.

11.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that:

      (a)    the Complaints Handling System is operated, maintained and
             consistently updated throughout Project implementation in accordance
             with the Operations Manual and terms of reference agreed in writing
             between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (b)    tracking of all active complaints cases is made available on the PNPM
             Website by no later than September 30, 2011;

      (c)    a service standard and a mechanism for its implementation, acceptable to
             the Borrower and the Bank, is established by September 30, 2011 by
             which except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between PMD and
             the Bank and reflected in the Standard Operating Procedures:

             (i)     with respect to Kecamatan Grants, if a problem related to fraud or
                     corruption (as defined in the Standard Operating Procedures) is
                     reported to the PMD in Jakarta by any Oversight Consultant,
                     Facilitator or official of the Borrower charged with supervising the
                     Project and no appropriate response (as determined by reference to
                     the Standard Operating Procedures) is taken by PMD, by the
                     within thirty (30) days after the report thereof, then the Provincial
                     Coordinator shall ensure that disbursement and transfer of
                     Kecamatan Grant funds is excluded on an interim basis in the
                     location in question until further notice issued by PMD;

             (ii)    with respect to any Facilitator, if a problem related to fraud,
                     corruption or a breach of the code of ethics (as defined in the
                     Standard Operating Procedures) is reported to the Provincial
                     Satker and no decision on appropriate action (as determined by
                     reference to the Standard Operating Procedures) is taken by the
                     relevant Satker within thirty (30) days after the report thereof, the
                     Provincial Coordinator shall remove on an interim basis the
                     Facilitator from all duties without pay until a decision is reached
                     by the ethics tribunal (as defined in and operating in accordance
                     with the Standard Operating Procedures) and acted upon by the
                     Provincial Satker which contracted such Facilitator; and

             (iii)   these arrangements shall not be construed to waive any rights that
                                       - 13 -




                      the Bank or the Borrower may otherwise have under the terms of
                      this Agreement with respect to the ensuring that the proceeds of
                      the Loan are used for the purposes of the Project and for Eligible
                      Expenditures; and

      (d)    each Provincial Satker and Kabupaten Satker arranges for the local
             public disclosure of complaints and cases related to the Project, if any,
             and their handling and resolution.

12.   The Borrower shall ensure that all PNPM rural sub-projects, whether financed
      by the Loan or by other sources, shall undertake such sub-projects in accordance
      with the Operations Manual.

C.    Environmental and Social Safeguards

1.    (a)    The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that each Sub-Project is
             prepared, implemented and monitored in accordance with the
             Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards,
             which form a supplement to the Operations Manual, and all guidelines
             and checklists set out therein, including those specifically provided for
             Indigenous Peoples and land donation, and the Negative List.

      (b)    In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Implementation
             Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards and those of this
             Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

2.    The Borrower, through PMD, shall apply the section of the Implementation
      Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards in each Sub-Project that
      may affect Indigenous Peoples, in a manner to ensure that the Sub-Project shall:

      (a)    avoid, and, if not possible, minimize cultural, social and economic
             adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples, caused or likely to be caused by
             the Project, by taking appropriate mitigating measures; and

      (b)    through a process of free, prior and informed participation, involve
             concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of Sub-
             projects in which such people reside or make their living and design and
             implement measures so as to ensure that the benefits received by the
             Indigenous Peoples under the Project are in harmony with their
             economic, social and cultural preferences, and likely to protect their
             customary user rights and reduce, mitigate and offset any adverse
             impacts of Sub-projects.
                                          - 14 -



3.      The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that the proceeds of Kecamatan Grants
        shall not be used to finance the acquisition of land or compensation for
        involuntary resettlement and that no Sub-Project shall require or permit the
        involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement. The Borrower,
        through PMD, shall ensure that in any Sub-Project involving land donation, the
        planning and verification procedures for land donation (voluntary donation and
        donation with compensation) set out in the Implementation Guidelines for Social
        and Environmental Safeguards shall have been followed and documented in a
        manner satisfactory to the Bank and PMD prior to the commencement of the
        Sub-Project.

4.      The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are not used to finance
        any activities or materials on the Negative List as set out in Section A.2 of Annex
        1 to this Schedule 2.

5.      Without limiting the obligations under Section II.A of this Schedule 2, the
        Borrower shall include in each Project Report: (a) information on the status of
        compliance with the Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental
        Safeguards; (b) details of measures taken for each Sub-Project in the
        implementation of such guidelines; (c) conditions, if any, in any Sub-Project
        which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of such
        guidelines; and (d) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address
        such conditions.

D.      Anti-Corruption

1.      The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Better Governance Action
        Plan, which reaffirms the Borrower’s commitment to good governance in PNPM.

2.      The Borrower shall ensure that no activities under the Project shall involve
        activities related to political practices or parties.

Section II.     Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
        Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished
        to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered
        by such report.
                                          - 15 -



B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report
        not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
        unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
        substance satisfactory to the Bank.

3.      The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
        The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
        consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
        of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
        referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
        this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
        the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
        Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
        contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
        Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
        Services

1.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
        contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
                                         - 16 -



2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
        Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
        International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
        non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
        under which such methods may be used: (a) National Competitive Bidding,
        subject to the following additional provisions dry set out in Annex 2 to this
        Schedule 2; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community
        Participation procedures which have been set out in the Operations Manual and
        have been found acceptable to the Bank.

C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
       2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
       basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
       methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be
       used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
       circumstances under which such methods may be used: (a) Selection based on
       Consultants’ Qualifications; (b) Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
       (c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
       for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (d) Single-source procedures for
       the Selection of Individual Consultants.

D.     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

       The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
       Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
       Bank.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.     General

1.     The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
       provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
       (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
       2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
       Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
       forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
       financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category?), the allocation of the
                                            - 17 -



        amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
        financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

                                                                            Percentage of
                                               Amount of the Loan        Expenditures to be
                                                    Allocated                  financed
             Category*                         (expressed in USD)        (inclusive of Taxes)
(1)     Kecamatan Grants                           400,000,000            80% of Kecamatan
                                                                            Grant amount
                                                                               disbursed
(2)     Consultants services, goods,                  99,110,000                 100%
        training and workshops, and
        incremental operating costs for
        facilitation support under Part 2
        of the Project

(3)     Consultants services, goods,                  30,980,000                100%
        training and workshops, and
        incremental operating costs for
        implementation support and
        technical assistance under Part 3
        of the Project

(4)     Consultants services, goods,                  1,100,000                 100%
        training and workshops, and
        incremental operating costs for
        Project management support
        under Part 4 of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT                                         531,190,000

*For the purposes of this Table: (i) “training and workshops? means Project-related
training and workshops conducted in the territory of the Borrower, including purchase
and publication of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and subsistence of
trainees; and (ii) “incremental operating costs? means reasonable costs arising under the
Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries; travel and other travel-
related expenditures; equipment rental and maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance
and repair; office rental and maintenance; materials and supplies; and utilities and
communications expenses, but excluding salaries and honoraria of officials and staff of
the Borrower.
                                      - 18 -



B.   Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
     made:

     (a)    from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
            Front-end Fee; or

     (b)    for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
            withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred
            million United States Dollars ($100,000,000) equivalent may be made
            for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 14, 2011 for
            Eligible Expenditures for Kecamatan Grants under Category 1.

2.   The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.
                                       - 19 -



                          ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2

       Terms and Conditions for Sub-projects and Kecamatan Grants

A.   Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects

1.   (a)    Kecamatan Grants may be provided for: (i) planning; (ii) training; and
            (iii) investment to support investment proposals presented on behalf of
            communities to finance Sub-projects other than those which are
            prohibited pursuant to paragraphs 2-6 of this Section A, provided,
            however, that such Sub-projects:

            (i)     are technically and financially feasible, and capable of being
                    implemented by the communities themselves with only locally
                    available technical assistance;

            (ii)    are of benefit to the communities, and to the poor in particular;
                    and respond to a public need; and

            (iii)   are in accordance with the Operations Manual and any
                    applicable Supplemental Manual.

     (b)    The amount of each Kecamatan Grant shall be calculated in accordance
            with the Circular Letter No. 900/5515/PMD on indicative allocation for
            block grants for PNPM Rural, dated November 10, 2010, as such letter
            may be revised or re-issued from time to time with the concurrence of
            the Bank.

2.   Negative List. No Kecamatan Grant shall be made to finance expenditures
     pertaining to or involving the following:

     (a)     Activities related to the military or army; activities related to political
             practices or parties.

     (b)     Building/rehabilitation of government offices or religious facilities.

     (c)     Purchase of chainsaws, weapons, explosive materials, asbestos, or other
             environmentally destructive materials (such as pesticides, herbicides,
             prohibited drugs).

     (d)     Purchase of any fishing boat with capacity above 10 tons and any related
             equipment.

     (e)     Government officers’ salary.
                                        - 20 -



     (f)     Activities using child labor below working age per regulations of the
             Borrower.

     (g)     Activities related to the production, storage or sale of goods with
             tobacco content.

     (h)     Activities in locations which are stated as a natural preserve per the
             regulations of the Borrower, except in any case in which there is a
             written permit from the official responsible for management of any such
             locations.

     (i)     Activities for mining or collecting or usage of reefs.

     (j)     Activities related to management of water resources from any river that
             flows from or to a country other than the territory of the Borrower.

     (k)     Activities related to relocating river lines.

     (l)     Activities related to reclamation of land of more than 50 hectares.

     (m)     Building any new irrigation network with an area of more than 50
             hectares.

     (n)     Activities to build a dam or water tank with large capacity of more than
             10,000 cubic meters.

3.   No Kecamatan Grant shall finance the acquisition of land or the resettlement or
     the compensation therefore. No Kecamatan Grant shall require or permit
     involuntary land acquisition or involuntary resettlement.

4.   No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
     Loan unless Facilitator(s) are engaged and carry out their functions in such
     Kecamatan accordance with the Operations Manual, for a cumulative period of at
     least eight (8) months in each Fiscal Year.

5.   No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
     Loan for a Pilot and Special Program unless the Borrower shall have adopted a
     Supplemental Manual for such Pilot and Special Program acceptable to the
     Borrower, through PMD, and the Bank, or the Borrower, through PMD, and the
     Bank shall have agreed in writing that a Supplemental Manual is not required for
     such Pilot and Special Program.

6.   No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
     Loan for Part 1(a)(v) of the Project with respect to any natural disaster,
     emergency or catastrophic event unless: (a) the Bank and the Borrower have
                                       - 21 -



     agreed in writing that a disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic event requiring
     support for such activities has occurred; and (b) the Bank and the Borrower,
     through PMD, have adopted a Supplemental Manual, if necessary, which defines
     the scope of such activities, and their implementation and disbursement
     arrangements.

7.   No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
     Loan for a Sub-project with a value higher than the Sub-project ceiling set out in
     the Operations Manual.

B.   Sub-project Review and Selection

1.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that each Sub-project is the subject of
     a corresponding proposal for a Kecamatan Grant that has been prepared,
     submitted and reviewed in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and
     selection criteria set forth in the Operations Manual, any Supplemental Manual
     and this Annex.

2.   The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that, with respect to each Sub-project
     and prior to the carrying out of Sub-project works, a technical Facilitator shall
     have completed a technical review of each Sub-project in accordance with the
     Operations Manual and any Supplemental Manual and the requirements of this
     Annex to ensure that all requirements have been complied with, including, except
     as may be otherwise agreed in writing by the Bank and the Borrower, though
     PMD:

     (a)     necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been
             obtained, including a Kecamatan Grant, any Local Government
             Participation and any additional contributions to be made by
             communities themselves or from other sources;

     (b)     the provisions of the Implementation Guidelines for Social and
             Environmental Safeguards have been complied with and appropriate
             measures adopted in design of the Sub-Project and in implementation
             and monitoring planning prior to the commencement of the Sub-Project;

     (c)     the requirements for undertaking and documenting land donation
             (voluntary donation and donation with compensation) set out in the
             Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards
             have been complied with, and where any land has been donated, the
             donation has been verified to be voluntary and documented as such prior
             to the commencement of the Sub-Project;
                                         - 22 -



        (d)     the provisions of the Implementation Guidelines for Social and
                Environmental Safeguards pertaining to Indigenous Peoples, if
                applicable, have been followed and free, prior and informed consultation
                has been documented prior to the commencement of the Sub-Project; and

        (e)     a maintenance program, and the budget therefor, for works to be carried
                out under the Sub-project and related goods has been prepared.

        The Borrower shall ensure that the Kabupaten Satker shall retain records of each
        such review.

C.      Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements

     1. Prior to the commencement of any Sub-project or the disbursement of any
        Kecamatan Grant, each of the following Sub-project Agreements shall be signed:

        (a)     between the relevant PJOK, on behalf of the Local Government, and the
                Project Kecamatan, through the UPK, with respect to the transfer of
                funds from the central government account to the UPK, and

        (b)     between the UPK and the Beneficiary, setting forth the respective
                obligations of the parties thereunder, including:

                (i)     that the Beneficiary shall carry out the Sub-project in accordance
                        with this Agreement, the Operations Manual including the
                        Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental
                        Safeguards, any Supplemental Manual, the provisions of the
                        Better Governance Action Plan, and the provisions of the Anti-
                        Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds
                        other than the Borrower;

                (ii)    the requirement that each Beneficiary procure the goods, works
                        and services to be financed out of the Sub-project in accordance
                        with provisions that are fully consistent with the provisions of
                        Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

                (iii)   that the Beneficiary shall monitor and evaluate the progress of
                        the Sub-project in accordance with the Operations Manual;

                (iv)    that the Beneficiary shall maintain a financial management
                        system in accordance with the Operations Manual and prepare
                        financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
                        accounting standards acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower;
                        in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
                        expenditures related to the Sub-Project and at the Bank’s or the
                        - 23 -



       Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by
       independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower in
       accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
       acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as
       so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;

(v)    that the Beneficiary shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to
       inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records
       and documents; and prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the
       Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall
       reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and

(vi)   rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
       Bank, including the right of the PJOK to: (A) suspend or
       terminate the right of the UPK or the Beneficiary to use the
       proceeds of Kecamatan Grant; or (B) obtain a refund of the
       Kecamatan Grant upon the failure of the UPK or the Beneficiary
       to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-project
       Agreement.
                                            - 24 -



                               ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2

                National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures

        The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum (Public Tendering) and Pemilihan
Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods as set forth in the
Borrower’s Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010, with the modifications set out below in
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the
provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said
Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method shall apply to
such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said Regulation. In the event
of a conflict between the Borrower’s procedures and these modifications, the latter shall
govern.

        (i)       Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents
                  acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16
                  (Fraud and Corruption) of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and
                  each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the
                  Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
                  corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the
                  contract provisions set out in paragraph 1.16(e) of said Guidelines.

        (ii)      Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration
                  process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated
                  bidder shall be given reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders
                  shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-contract part of the
                  supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for
                  submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be
                  made available, by mail or in person, to all international bidders who are
                  willing to pay the required fee.

        (iii)     No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.

        (iv)      Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least
                  twenty-one (21) days from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of
                  availability of bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare and
                  submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan
                  Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.

        (v)       Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in
                  one (1) envelope and evaluated using post-qualification.
                                   - 25 -



(vi)     No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the
         owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior written
         concurrence.

(vii)    Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of
         credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial
         institution and shall without exception follow the form provided for this
         purpose in the bidding documents.

(viii)   All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s
         prior written concurrence.

(ix)     Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to
         participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and
         financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are not
         dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.
                                       - 26 -



                                  SCHEDULE 3

                              Amortization Schedule

1.     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
       Payment Date (“Installment Share?). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
       withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
       Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
       determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
       first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
       Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
       amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
       Conversion applies.

        Principal Payment Date                        Installment Share
                                                  (Expressed as a Percentage)
July 15, 2020                                                2.17
January 15, 2021                                             2.22
July 15, 2021                                                2.28
January 15, 2022                                             2.34
July 15, 2022                                                2.40
January 15, 2023                                             2.46
July 15, 2023                                                2.52
January 15, 2024                                             2.58
July 15, 2024                                                2.64
January 15, 2025                                             2.71
July 15, 2025                                                2.78
January 15, 2026                                             2.85
July 15, 2026                                                2.92
January 15, 2027                                             2.99
July 15, 2027                                                3.07
January 15, 2028                                             3.14
July 15, 2028                                                3.22
January 15, 2029                                             3.30
July 15, 2029                                                3.38
January 15, 2030                                             3.47
July 15, 2030                                                3.56
January 15, 2031                                             3.65
July 15, 2031                                                3.74
January 15, 2032                                             3.83
July 15, 2032                                                3.93
January 15, 2033                                             4.02
July 15, 2033                                                4.12
                                         - 27 -



January 15, 2034                                                  4.23
July 15, 2034                                                     4.33
January 15, 2035                                                  4.44
July 15, 2035                                                     4.71

2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
       each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
               the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
               Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
               of this Schedule.

       (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
               repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
               withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
               amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
               the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
               Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share?)
               and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
               Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
               date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
               amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
               Conversion applies.

3.     (a)     Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
               any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
               the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
               as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
               following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
               Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
               Date following the date of withdrawal.

       (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
               at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
               invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
               provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
               withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
       Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
       Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
       repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
       Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
                                      - 28 -



     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.
                                        - 29 -



                                    APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
       Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
       Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and as revised in January 2011.

2.     “ASF-RMC? means the administrative services firms for regional management
       consulting services financed by the proceeds of the Loan, assigned at the
       Regional level to assist in Project implementation and monitoring.

3.     “Bappenas? means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower’s
       National Development Planning Agency, or any successor thereto.

4.     “Beneficiary? means a Village, represented by its PNPM implementation team
       (tim pelaksanaan kegiatan, or TPK) or other entity meeting the requirements set
       out in the Operations Manual which is the beneficiary of a Kecamatan Grant and
       party to a Sub-project Agreement, and “Beneficiaries? means more than one (1)
       Beneficiary.

5.     “Better Governance Action Plan? means a stand-alone chapter of the Operations
       Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and
       to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures and
       policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms
       under the Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil
       society oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks
       associated with collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaints handling mechanism,
       and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies, and included as applicable
       in each Sub-project Agreement, as such chapter may be revised from time to time
       with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower, and such term
       includes any annexes or schedules to such chapter.

6.     “BPKP? means Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the
       Borrower’s Financial and Development Supervisory Agency, or any successor
       thereto.

7.     “Bupati? means the head of a Kabupaten.

8.     “Camat? means the Kabupaten official at the Kecamatan level.

9.     “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2
       to this Agreement.
                                         - 30 -



10.   “Complaints Handling System? means the system described in the Operations
      Manual and related annexes/Standard Operating Procedures, and the technical
      system it describes, designed to track complaints regarding the use of Kecamatan
      Grant funds at any level of PNPM implementation, guide resolution of such
      complaints, track resolution of such complaints, and if warranted in accordance
      with such system, as an interim measure exclude use of Kecamatan Grants in a
      particular Kabupaten, Kecamatan or Province, or the participation of responsible
      individuals or other actions authorized by the Complaints Handling System, as
      such system may be updated from time to time by written agreement between the
      Borrower, through PMD, and the Bank.

11.   “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
      Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
      Borrowers?, dated January 2011.

12.   “Eligibility Criteria? means the criteria for a Kecamatan Grant, as set out in this
      Agreement, the Operations Manual and any Supplemental Manual.

13.   “Facilitator? means a technical or social specialist financed by the proceeds of the
      Loan and assigned to work with Villages to facilitate their participation in the
      Project, and “Facilitators? means more than one Facilitator.

14.   “Fiscal Year? and “FY? mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1
      and ending December 31.

15.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010.

16.   “Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards? means
      the supplement to the Operations Manual, including all annexes thereto,
      containing standard operating procedures, technical guidelines and Sub-Project
      checklists (Panduan Penerapan Kebijakan Pengamanan Sosial dan Lingkungan
      Hidup Dalam PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan), including references as required to the
      main text of the Operations Manual, for environmental and social assessment and
      management designed to maximize the benefits of the Project, eliminate, offset
      or mitigate any adverse environmental or social impacts, or reduce such impacts
      to acceptable levels, including: the Negative List; specific procedures applicable
      to Sub-Projects involving or affecting Indigenous Peoples; and procedures
      related to undertaking and documenting the voluntary nature of any land
      donation, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time with the prior
      written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower, through PMD.

17.   “Indigenous Peoples? means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct
      social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the
      development process affected by the Project or any part thereof as follows:
                                        - 31 -



      (a) masyarakat adat (customary law communities) based on lineage or locality
      and bound by customary law with characteristics including: (i) self identification
      as a distinct indigenous cultural group; (ii) collective attachment to ancestral
      territories and to the natural resources in the territories; and (iii) customary
      cultural, economic, social, or political institutions; and (b) Komunitas Adat
      Terpencil (KAT) (Isolated and Vulnerable communities), a category of customary
      law communities designated by the Borrower that live in isolated areas with
      characteristics including: (i) collective attachment to ancestral territories and to
      the natural resources in the territories; (ii) customary cultural, economic, social,
      or political institutions; (iii) an indigenous language; (iv) having a subsistence
      economy, (v) using simple tools and technology, (vi) having a high dependence
      on the environment and local natural resources, and (vii) having restricted access
      to social, economic, and political services.

18.   “Kabupaten? means a district, an administrative sub-division of a Province.

19.   “Kabupaten Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team? means the local
      government-level working group established under Perpres 15/2010 in each
      Project Kabupaten, Project Kecamatan or Project Village, or any successor
      thereto.

20.   “Kabupaten Satker? means each project management unit established and
      operating at the Kabupaten level in accordance with paragrah 4 of Section I.A of
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

21.   “Kecamatan? means a sub-district, an administrative sub-division of a
      Kabupaten.

22.   “Kecamatan Grant? a grant made or to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan for
      the purposes of Part 1 of the Project and meeting the requirements set out in this
      Agreement, the Operations Manual and any Supplemental Manual, and
      “Kecamatan Grants? means more than one Kecamatan Grant.

23.   “Local Government? means the government of a Project Kabupaten or a Project
      Kecamatan, as applicable, and “Local Governments? means more than one Local
      Government.

24.   “Local Government Participation? means Local Government funding contributed
      to the total Sub-project cost for participating in the Project, to be made available
      by the government of the relevant Province or Project Kabupaten to a Project
      Kecamatan for a Sub-project in accordance with the formula set forth in the
      Operations Manual.

25.   “Management Information System? means the technical system, designed and
      operated as described in the Operations Manual for recording, tracking and
                                        - 32 -



      publishing information pertaining to the implementation of PNPM, as such system
      may be redesigned and updated as part of ongoing PNPM development as agreed
      in writing between the Borrower, through PMD, and the Bank.

26.   “Menko Kesra? means the Borrower’s Coordinating Ministry for Peoples’
      Welfare, or any successor thereto.

27.   “Ministry of Finance? means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any
      successor thereto.

28.   “Ministry of Public Works? means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, or
      any successor thereto.

29.   “MOHA? means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs, or any successor
      thereto.

30.   “National? refers to activities taking place at the central government level of the
      Borrower.

31.   “National Management Consultants? and “NMCs? means the consultants,
      financed by the proceeds of the Loan, assigned at the central level to assist in
      Project implementation and monitoring.

32.   “Negative List? means the list of activities and inputs for which the proceeds of
      the Loan shall not be used, as set out in Section A.2 of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to
      this Agreement.

33.   “Operations Manual? means the Operations Manual, including all annexes and
      supplements thereto, which: (a) is used by the Borrower for all of PNPM
      including the Project; (b) has been revised and updated as necessary to reflect the
      Project; (c) meets the requirements of paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
      this Agreement; and (d) consists of: (i) the main text of the Operations Manual
      (Petunjunk Teknis Operasional Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyrakat
      (PNPM) Mandiri Perdesaan); (ii) Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); (iii) the
      elucidation/detailed technical guidelines (Penjelasan); (iv) the collection of
      checklists and forms (Formulir); (v) the Implementation Guidelines for Social
      and Environmental Safeguards (Panduan Penerapan Safeguards Sosial dan
      Lingkungan Dalam PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan); and (e) such other supplements,
      annexes or schedules as may be agreed in writing from time to time by the Bank
      and PMD, as such Operations Manual may be amended or updated from time to
      time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and PMD.

34.   “Oversight Consultants? means consultants, financed by the proceeds of the
      Loan, assigned at the Province level to assist in Project implementation and
      monitoring.
                                        - 33 -



35.   “Part? means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

36.   “Perpres? means a Peraturan Presiden, a presidential regulation.

37.   “Pilot and Special Program? means each Sub-project under Part 1(b) of the
      Project, which will provide planning, training and investment related to defined
      activities of particular interest agreed in writing between the Borrower, through
      PMD, and the Bank, which may include, but is not limited to: crisis response,
      including responding to natural disasters; activities related to millennium
      development goal indicators for poverty reduction, education and health; support
      for community investments in environmental and natural resource management;
      supporting community activities in national border areas; supporting Aceh-
      specific programs; and supporting Papua and West Papua activities in nutrition
      and food security, education, primary health care, village infrastructure, and
      economic livelihoods, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set out in
      the Operations Manual and any applicable Supplemental Manual.

38.   “PJOK? means a Project operations officer at the Kecamatan level, established in
      accordance with the Operations Manual.

39.   “PJOKab? means a Project operations officer at the Kabupaten level, established
      in accordance with paragraph 4(b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
      Agreement, and “PJOKabs? means more than one PJOKab.

40.   “PJOProv? means a Project operations officer at the Province established in
      accordance with paragraphs 3(b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
      and “PJOProvs? means more than one PJOProv.

41.    “PMD? means Pemberdayaan Masyarakat dan Desa, the Directorate General
      for Community Empowerment of MOHA, or any successor thereto.

42.   “PMD Secretariat? means the PMD Secretariat referred to in paragraph 1(c)(i) of
      Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

43.   “PNPM? means Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri, the
      Borrower’s National Program for Community Empowerment, as described in
      Perpres 15/2010, as the same may be amended or updated from time to time.

44.   “PNPM Rural? means the Rural section of PNPM, or Program Nasional
      Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri Perdesaan.

45.   “PNPM Website? means the Project website maintained by PMD, (www.pnpm-
      perdesaan.or.id) or such other website as may be established from time to time
      and agreed in writing between the Borrower, through PMD, and the Bank.
                                        - 34 -



46.   “Pokja Pengendali PNPM? means the national-level working group of PNPM,
      chaired by Menko Kesra, with representatives of relevant ministries, including
      BAPPENAS, MOHA, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public Works, and State
      Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions, or any successor thereto.

47.   “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
      and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
      World Bank Borrowers? dated January 2011.

48.   “Procurement Plan? means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated June 13, 2011 (Letter No. 414.2/853/PNPM MP/II/2011 and referred to in
      paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the
      Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
      accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

49.   “Project Kabupaten? means a Kabupaten which is selected by the Borrower for
      participation in the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations
      Manual.

50.   “Project Kecamatan? means a Kecamatan located in a Project Kabupaten which
      is selected by the Borrower for participation in the Project in accordance with the
      provisions of the Operations Manual.

51.   “Project Manager? means a suitably qualified person appointed by the PMD
      Secretariat to be responsible for the management and monitoring of the Project in
      accordance with paragraph 1(c)(iii) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
      Agreement.

52.   “Project Village? means a Village selected by the Borrower for participation in
      the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual.

53.   “Province? means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower’s territory at
      the first level below the national level, and “Provinces? means more than one
      Province.

54.   “Provincial Coordinator? means the head of the Oversight Consultants team at
      the Provincial level.

55.   “Provincial Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team? means the province-level
      working group established under Perpres 13/2009 in each Province, or any
      successor thereto.

56.   “Provincial Satker? means each Province level project management unit
      established and operating in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section I.A of
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                        - 35 -



57.   “Regional? refers to activities taking place at the level of a group of two or more
      Provinces designated in accordance with the Operations Manual.

58.   “Regional Management Consultants? means the consultants, financed by the
      proceeds of the Loan, assigned at the level of a cluster of Provinces as designated
      in the Operations Manual to assist in Project implementation and monitoring at
      the Regional level.

59.   “Revolving Funds? means funds made available under Part 1(a)(iv) of the
      Project, subject to the conditions for revolving funds set out in Annex 1 to
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operations Manual.

60.   “Rupiah? and “Rp? mean the currency of the Borrower.

61.   “Satker? means satuan kerja, a Project management unit, whether at central level
      or at the level of the Province or Kabupaten.

62.   “Standard Operating Procedures? means the sections of the Operations Manual
      and its annexes setting out details of procedures for management of the PNPM
      Rural between and among the National, Regional, Provincial, Kabupaten and
      Kecamatan levels, including for example, lines of decision making, resolution of
      disputes or complaints.

63.   “State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions? means the
      Borrower’s State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions, or any
      successor thereto.

64.   “Sub-project“ means an activity qualifying for financing by a Kecamatan Grant
      in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Operations Manual and any
      Supplemental Manual, and “Sub-projects? means more than one Sub-project.

65.   “Sub-project Agreement? means an agreement between a PJOK and a UPK or
      between a UPK and a Beneficiary for purposes of a Sub-project, and referred to
      in Section C of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and “Sub-project
      Agreements? means more than one Sub-project Agreement.

66.   “Supplemental Manual? means each Supplemental Manual for a Pilot and
      Special Program under Part 1(b) and each natural disaster, emergency or
      catastrophic event under Part 1(a)(v) of the Project meeting the requirements of
      paragraph 1(b) and paragraph 1(c), respectively, of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
      this Agreement, as each such Supplemental Manual may be amended from time
      to time with the prior written agreement of the Borrower Bank and includes any
      annexes or schedules to such Manual.
                                      - 36 -



67.   “UPK? means a Kecamatan management unit established and operating in a
      Kecamatan, and “UPKs? means more than one UPK.

68.   “Village? means an administrative subdivision of a Kecamatan.
