Report No. 741-BO                                                                FILE  COP
Appraisal of a                                                                   FIEri
Second Railway Project
Bolivia
May 9, 1975
Latin America and Caribbean
Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency TEAivalents
1 Bolivian Peso ($b)             =   US$0.05
US$1.00                          =   20.0 Bolivian Pesos (stb)
1 million Bolivian Pesos ($b)        US$5D,000
Weights and Measures:
Metric System
Metric                  US Units
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (')             3.28 feet (ft)
1 liter (1)             0.22 imp. gallon
0.26 TS gallon
1 kilogram (kg)         2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton               =  2,205 pounds
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviatiqns and Acronyms
ALALC         - Latin America Free Trade Association
CEPAL         - Comision Econoinca para Ainrica Iatina (Naciones Unidas)
COMIBOL       - Government Mining Company
CfKAVI        - National Housing Council
IKJM          - Daniel, MIann, Johnson & Mendenhall -
Consultjng Firm, Los Angeles (USA)
ENFE          - National Railway Enterprise of Bolivia, Bolivian Railways
IDB           -  Interamer4can Development Bank
MTCCA         - Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aviation
SOFRERAIL     - Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisations Ferroviaires -
Consulting Firm, Paris (France)
UNDP          -  UJnited Nations Developnent Program
USAID         -  United States Agency for International Development
YPFB          - Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................         i - ii
1. INTRODUCTION .1
2. BACKGROUND..                                                         2
A. General.                                                        2
B. The Transport Sector.                                           2
C.   Transport Investment Planning and Coordination                5
3.   THE NATIONAL RAILWAY ENTERPRISE OF BOLIVIA (ENFE)                  6
A. General.                                                        6
B. Organization and Management.                                    6
C. Staff.                                                          7
D. Railway Property.                                               7
E. New Lines.                                                      8
F. Operations.                                                     8
G. Commercial Policy.                                              9
4.  THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT.                                9
A. The Plan.                                                       9
B.   The Project and the Proposed Loan .10
C. The Action Program .12
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and
Disbursement .12
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ..14
A. General .14
B.  Economic Benefits of the Plan .14
C.   Rate of Economic Return, Sensitivity and Risk Analyses   16
D.   Basic Criteria Used in Preparing the Plan and
the Project .16
6. FINANCES   ..16
A. Accounts, Budgets and Audit .16
B. Financial Position .17
C.   Tariffs and Costs as of December 1974 .18
D. Future Prospects .19
E. Financing Plan .20
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .21
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Buratti and Dominguez
(Engineers), Hurtado (Consultant Economist) and Rasheed (Financial Analyst),
and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Selected Operating Statistics
2.   1975-1979 Investment Plan
3.   Investments to be Committed in 1975-1976
4.   Freight Traffic Forecasts 1975-1980
5.   Passenger Traffic Forecasts 1975-1980
6.   Economic Costs witl and without the Investment Plan
7.   Income Projections 1975-1979
8.   Summary Balance Sheets - 1970-1979, Actual and Forecast
9.   Cash Flow 1970-1979, Actual and Forecast
ANNEXES
1.   International Financing in the Transport Sector
2.   Highway Plan - Principal Projects for the Primary
Road System
3.   Estimate of Road User Charges Paid by a 12-ton Diesel Truck
4.   Estimate of the Marginal Maintenance Cost of Road
Use per Type of Vehicle
5.   Brief Description.of Railway Property
6.   New Lines under Construction or Proposed
7.   Time-Phased Action Programs
8.   Main Items of the 1975-1979 Investment Plan
9.   Scope of Technical Assistance Services to ENFE (Oct. 1975 - Dec. 1976)
10.   Action Program of First Railway Project.  Evaluation of Progress
as of December 31, 1974
11.   Tentative Disbursement Schedule
12.   Ecanomic Evaluation of the Plan
13.   Estimated Economic Cost of Transport of Freight by Road
14.   LIethodology Used in Traffic Forecast and Analysis of Future
Traffic by Major Commodities
15.   Forecast Operating Accounts 1975 to 1979 - Notes and Assumptions
CHART S
1.   IBRD-6359 (2R) - Bolivian Railways Freight Traffic Density
2.   Organization of ENFE
MAP
1.   IBRD-11455 - Bolivia - Roads and Railways



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project consisting of the second stage of
a plan for the technical and financial rehabilitation of the National Rail-
way Enterprise of Bolivia (ENFE). The objectives of the plan are to enable
the railways to fulfill their essential role in the national economy and
to establish ENFE's financial and technical viability. The proposed loan
of US$32 million equivalent would be the third Bank Group lending operation
to Bolivia for development of its transport infrastructure (Bank Loan 635-BO
of US$23.25 million was made in 1971 for a gas pipeline, and IDA Credit 346-BO
of US$8.0 million was granted in 1972 for the first stage of ENFE's re-
habilitation).
ii.       Transportation in Bolivia has developed piecemeal and without
coordination. In the west, a series of independent railways was built,
mostly by mining interests, to connect the highlands with Pacific ports for
export. In the east, rail connections of Santa Cruz with the Argentine and
Brazilian Railways are relatively recent. The Eastern and the Western Systems
are interconnected only via a 600-km detour through Argentina, The highway
network connects major cities in the southwest and provides the only land link
between Bolivia's high and low lands; it provides no adequate link to the
ports. Thus, foreign trade depends, to a very large extent, on the railways,
which are an essential transport link for the Bolivian economy.
iii.      Highway competition for internal traffic has grown considerably
over recent years, but only in those limited areas where highways have been
built (28,000 km of roads, of which only 1,100 km asphalted). Actually, road
competition is keen mostly on the La Paz-Oruro-Cochabamba road.
iv.       Since its creation in 1964, ENFE has had to face a staggering
combination of problems, which has resulted in a difficult technical and
financial situation, aggravated by inadequate Government support. Since 1970,
however, a program of technical assistance, financed by UNDP grants totaling
US$2.3 million and administered by the Bank, has resulted in substantial im-
provements in ENFE's organization and management. The arrival, in the last
quarter of 1974, of the first materials, tools and equipment bought under
IDA Credit 346-BO should prove to be a decisive step on the road to rehabilita-
tion. The success of ENFE's rehabilitation plan will continue to depend on
three basic elements: (a) a strong financial and political support from the
Government; (b) the ability of ENFE's management to carry on successfully its
various time-phased Action Programs; and (c) the materializatirn of ENFE's
forecast traffic. The first two elements have been present in increasing
amounts during the last two years, and indications are that they will continue
to increase in the future. The traffic prospects are difficult to assess in
view of their heavy reliance on exports and imports, which vary with world trade
conditions; on domestic agricultural production; and on the ever present



- ii -
possibility of traffic interruptions during the rainy season.  The forecasts in
this report are the best estimates in the light of present conditions, but are
subject to upward and downward variations.
v.        The project covers the investments to be committed during the first
two years (1975-1976) of ENFE's revised Investment Plan (1975-1979); it will
include the continuation of a program of technical assistance and of a series
of interrelated Action Programs designed to complement the acquisition of
materials and equipment in order to further the rehabilitation of ENFE.  The
equipment and works to be financed by the proposed Bank Loan include the re-
habilitation of, and equipment for, the main diesel worlshop at Viacha and
two lesser diesel shops at Oruro and Guaracachi and the purchase of six main
line diesel electric locomotives, some 300 freight cars, two ferrobuses,
spare parts for the motive power fleet, and equipment for track rehabilitation,
including rails for the renewal of 68 km of track. The items which had to be
dropped from the first project due to-cost increases, and which totaled about
US$4 million at 1973 prices, are included in the present Investment Plan.
The project has a total estimated cost of about US$41 million equivalent,
including a foreign exchange component of US$32 million equivalent at costs
expected to prevail on the disbursement dates. All purchases in foreign
currency are to be made through international competitive bidding except for:
(a) spare parts, which will be purchased from the manufacturers of existing
equipment; and (b) diesel locomotives, for which ENFE is seeking bilateral
financing, or, failing this, by competitive bidding restricted to the manu-
facturers of the existing locomotives and of those in wide use in neighboring
countries.
vi.       The First Railway Project estimated at 21% the economic rate of
return on the total rehabilitation investment, dieselization and modernization.
The rate of return for the revised investment (1975-1979) is conservatively
estimated at 24%. The financial benefits will also be substantial and, consid-
ering the tariff increases of January 17, 1975, it should be possible for ENFE
to substantially improve its financial position. The achievement by the end
of 1976 of working and operating ratios of about 85% and 95%, respectively,
which would eliminate ENFE's reliance on Government's financial suDport except
for debt service, is considered to be a reasonable and attainable target for
future financial performance, even considering the difficulties wlhich ENFE still
has to overcome.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$32 million equivalent,
to be made available to ENFE for a term of 25 years, including a five-year
period of grace with a Government guarantee. If ENFE can obtain bilateral
financing for the procurement of diesel locomotives, an amount of US$3.3
million of the loan will be canceled.



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The-Government of the Republic of Bolivia and the National Railway
Enterprise of Bolivia (ENFE) had asked the Bank Group for assistance in
financing the 1973-1977 Investment and Rehabilitation Plan for the Railways,
prepared by ENFE with the assistance of SOFRERAIL, 1/ a French consulting firm.
The proposed five-year investment was estimated at US$37 million equivalent.
Investments during the first two years were estimated at $b 139 million
(US$11;6 million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$8
million. In 1972, IDA granted the Government a US$8 million credit (Credit
346-BO) to cover the foreign exchange component for the years 1973-1974.
1.02      The original five-year investment plan (1973-1977) has now been
revised and extended to cover the period 1975-1979. The revision includes
an updating of costs, a carryover of goods which had to be excluded from the
IDA Credit because of price increases, and some new items, the necessity for
which has become apparent as a result of the studies carried out during the
years 1973 and 1974. The present revised five-year investment plan (1975-1979),
prepared by ENFE with SOFRERAIL's assistance, is estimated at $b 1,952 million
(US$98 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange equivalent of US$77. million,
at current prices. Investments during the first two years of the plan (1975-
1976) are estimated at $b 748 million (US$37.4 million equivalent) with a
foreign exchange component of US$29 million equivalent, at current prices.
Corrected to include escalation to the probable dates of disbursement, the
investment for 1975-1976 becomes $b 820.0 million (US$41.0 million equivalent)
with a foreign exchange equivalent of US$32 million. The proposed Bank loan
would finance this foreign exchange requirement.
1.03      To date, the Bank Group has lent only twice to the transportation
sector: (a) in 1971, it helped to finance a gas pipeline (Loan 635-BO, US$23.25
million) which has been satisfactorily completed and is in service; and (b) it
helped to finance the first two years (1973-1974) of ENFE's Investment Plan
(IDA Credit 346-BO, 1972, US$8.0 million), which, after some delay, brought
about by the necessity of reducing the purchase program in the face of sharp
rises in costs, is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1.04      In the past, the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) financed 1,861 km of highways for a total of US$133.35 million. The
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) financed the construction of the La
Paz-El Alto Road (US$13.7 million), the engineering and construction of the
Oruro-Cochambamba road (US$44.03 million), the construction of the new Santa
Cruz-Cochabamba Road (US$35.0 million) and miscellaneous highway improvements
(US$10 million). The Brazilian Government gave Bolivia a credit of US$17
1/   SOFRERAIL - Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisations Ferroviaires.



million to purchase road maintenance and construction equipment and is financ-
ing the studies of the Santa Cruz-Cochabamba railway connection (feasibility)
and of the Santa Cruz-Cochabamba road (feasibility and design). The Government
of Argentina is financing the construction of a railway line from Santa Cruz
to the Mamore river, which is being built by a joint Argentina-Bolivia com-
mission (Annex 1).
1.05      This report is based on (a) the five-year Investment and Rehabilita-
tion Plan (1973-1977) prepared by ENFE, with the assistance of SOFRERAIL, and
updated for the period 1975-1979, in agreement with the Bank: (b) data supplied
by the Government of Bolivia; and (c) findings of an appraisal mission in
November 1974, and a further updating mission in February-March 1975, both
comprising Messrs. C. Buratti and F. Dominguez (Engineers); Mr. C. Hurtado
(Consultant Economist); and Mr. N. Rasheed (Financial Analyst). The report was
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Bolivia has a land area of about one million square km and a popula-
tion of five million. Two-thirds of the population are rural; 84% live in
the western highlands at an altitude of 3,000 to 4,000 meters, and in the
valleys of the Andes, which together represent 40% of the country's area; the
other 16% live in the eastern tropical plains, which cover 60% of the country.
The main transport problems are the scarcity of settlement, the lack of adequate
connections between rural and urban areas, and the need to provide economic and
rel-able transport from the landlocked country to the ports and to open the
rich eastern plains to migration and economic activity,
2.02      Between 1965 and 1971, GDP grew, in real terms, at a yearly rate of
5.9%; between 1971 and 1974. the growth rate was 6.1% a year. Future develop-
ment prospects depend heavily on the successful growth of oil, mineral and
agricultural production. The growth of manufacturing will have to rely to a
iar,ge extent on the possibilities of exporting, mainly to neighboring countries.
As e result, the lack of adequate transport to move increasing quantities of
exports may become one of the critical bottlenecks for maintaining or increas-
ing past growth trends.
B.  The Transport Sector
ti) General
2.03      The railways of western Bolivia (2,101 km) were built in the late
~i h and early 20th centuries, largely in response to the needs of the mining
industry; their routes were selected to provide the most direct and least
expensive transport from the mines to Pacific ports. The railways of Eastern
Bolivia (1,232 km), connected to the west only through a 600-km detour in



Argentinean territory, were built in the early 1960's as a means of develop-
ing the Santa Cruz region and of providing it with connections to Atlantic ports.
The only line not operated by ENFE is the one from Machacamarca to Uncia (105
km), which is operated by the Government mining company COMIBOL. On the Eastern
System, a line between Santa Cruz and Puerto Mamore is being constructed under
an agreement between Bolivia and Argentina. The feasibility of connecting the
Eastern and Western rail systems, probably through a line joining Santa Cruz
and Cochabamba, will be studied soon as a result of an agreement between Bolivia
and Brazil.
2.04      The present road system consists of approximately 28,000 kIn, of
which 1,104 are asphalted. Most of the system is located in the altiplano,
in extremely difficult mountainous terrain. In contrast, the low lands of the
eastern and northern regions contain very few roads. The most significant
among the expected future additions to the road system are given in Annex 2.
Except for the connection between Patacamayo and the Chilean border, which is
expected to be ready by 1980, the construction of all other roads linking
Bolivia with neighboring countries is either very difficult technically, or
very expensive, or both; none of these roads is expected to be completed
before 1980.
2.05      The state oil company, YPFB, operates over 2,600 km of oil pipelines
and 640 km of gas pipelines. The system of pipelines reaches from Santa Cruz
north to Puerto Villarroel, west to Cochabamba, Oruro, La Paz and Arica and
south to Yacuiba on the Argentinean border. There is also a pipeline from
Camiri to Cochabamba. The gas pipeline connects Colpa with Yacuiba.
2.06      Air transport faces serious problems, such as the poor quality of
landing strips, a shortage of navigational aids, and the inadequate organi-
zation of the Government agencies dealing with civil aviation; scheduled
services are provided among 30 airports. International flights connect La Paz
and Santa Cruz with Lima, Buenos Aires, Asuncion, Salta, Santiago, Arica,
Corumba and Sao Paulo. Air traffic, both national and international, is very
important in Bolivia. Between 1968 and 1972, the growth of the number of
passengers moved by air has been 12% a year for national traffic and 10% for
international. The tonnage of international air freight increased from
approximately 2,200 tons in 1971 to 11,500 tons in 1973, an indication of the
lack of capacity and delays in alternative means.
2.07      There are three main waterways used by Bolivia: '(a) the Rio Mamore,
which provides a link in connecting Trinidad in the lowlands with Santa Cruz
and Cochabamba; (b) the Rio Beni, which provides a link between the extreme
north, the Yungas and La Paz; (c) the Rios Paraguay and Parana linking Bolivia,
Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina and providing a connection between Corumba on
the Brazil-Bolivia border and the Atlantic Ocean. Traffic on these waterways
is very light. There is also commercial shipping on Lake Titicaca between
Guaqui and Chaguaya (Mina Matilde) in Bolivia and Puno in Peru. This service
is the key link in the rail route to the port of Matarani in Peru.



- 4 -
(ii) Role of Railways in the Transport Sector: Present and Future
2.08      In Bolivia, the railroads are the most reliable connection with the
rest of the world for import and export traffic. As a result, most exports
and imports, especially those of bulky, high volume and low value goods, rely
on the railroads. International traffic was approximately 70% of total 1973
rail freight traffic on the Western System and 80% on the Eastern System.
On the Western System, the export traffic consists mostly of minerals and
sugar. The imports are mainly wheat and flour, iron and steel for construction
and other miscellaneous products. On the Eastern System, exports are mostly
wood and cotton, while imports are diversified. All the key exports of the
country, with the sole exception of oil and gas, rely on the railroads for
most of their transport requirements. Chart 1 indicates ENFE's freight
traffic densitv.
2.09      The highway system serves most of the internal traffic in the south-
west portion of the country and, where possible, complements the railroads in
the transport of high value international trade goods and other goods that the
railroads cannot move due to the present shortage of capacity; 63% of the
total ton-km, excluding oil, was moved by road, 31% by rail and the rest by
river or air transport.
2.10      Passenger land transport from Santa Cruz to the east and south relies
exclusively on the railroads. In spite of the extremely poor service conditions
due to the lack of equipment (occupancy ratios of 125%), there has been a
permanent and quite substantial increase in traffic (10.6% a year).  In the
west, buses provide an alternative.  The scarcity of railway equipment, together
with the paving of the road from La Paz to Oruro, reduced substantially the
number of passengers moved (by 13% between 1970 and 1973) between these two
cities.  Pass-km decreased by 9% in the same period.  Nevertheless, the high
occupancy ratios of the equipment in operation (68%) show that there is a
demand for the service.
2.11      The development of production in the east, on which the overall
development of the country depends so heavily, relies on the availability of
adequate rail transport. Road alternatives, if and when provided, will not
be competitive for the transport of the bulky commodities constituting the
basic production of the region that shall be moved to ports or consumption
centers over 2,000 km away. Moreover, the opening of the road to Brazil
(about 600 km) and the improvement of the one to Argentina will take a long
time, leaving the railroads as the only viable alternative for at least a
decade.
2.12      In the west, where road alternatives exist, comparisons of long run
railway marginal costs with road transport costs show that the latter are
substantially higher (about 100% on the average). Despite the low level of
road user charges (Annexes 3 and 4), average truck fares are slightly higher
than rail freight tariffs. Although shippers consider other elements,
particularly quality of service, reliability and speed, the traffic being
moved by the railroads consists, to a large extent, of bulky, relatively low



- 5 -
value products, with long hauls, for which transportation cost is a prime
factor. The improvement in the road system, particularly the roads to Arica
and the one between Oruro and Cochabamba, will increase the competitiveness
of road services; this has been considered when projecting rail traffic.
However, it should be recalled that a substantial amount of rail traffic
will not be affected by these roads either because of its nature or because
of its location, and that considerable improvements in the quality of rail
services should be expected as a result of the Investment Plan. The conclusion
is that the railroads will remain the basic mode for the transport of foreign
trade.
2.13      The future role of the Western System in the transport of passengers
is not yet clear. The fact that the railroads, with present fares higher than
buses, tover their marginal costs and have high occupancy ratios in most
services, indicates that there are quality and locational advantages in some
rail passenger services over existing bus services. The proportion of these
services where rail has an advantage is likely to dwindle as the road system
improves. Considering these elements, the Investment Plan is quite conservative
in the provision of new equipment for the transport of passengers on the
Western System, especially during the next two years. The future role of the
railroads in the transport of passengers should be evaluated with great care
before more important long term investment commitments are made for these
services.
C.   Transport Investment Planning and Coordination
2.14      A general Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by the UNDP, was
completed in 1969, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. It proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the following ten years.
One of its main recommendations was that a Department of Transport Planning
and Coordination should be created. The Department was created and, for a
time, was attached to the Ministry of Coordination and Planning. It is now
in the Ministry of Transport and Communications and Civil Aviation and will
be activated with assistance from the UNDP. In a country where substantial
new investments in transport are required, where many new diverse projects
are being considered and where there are growing intermodal relationships and
conflicts, the lack of adequate planning is a serious shortcoming that may
result in extremely costly errors. There are important issues related to
transport planning and coordination in Bolivia that should receive priority
attention. During the next 20 years, Bolivia has to construct and improve
a substantial extension of roads. This program, which will cost several
hundred million dollars, has to be carefully defined, evaluated and scheduled,
if proper use of the scarce resources available is desired; it should fully
consider the alternatives offered by the other transport modes. A policy
for financing of construction, improvement and maintenance of highways has
to be defined in order to provide both for the resources needed by the highways
program and for an adequate setting for competition between road and rail.
2.15      For achieving better planning and coordination, a strengthening of
the Department of Coordination and Planning is required. A UNDP program to
provide technical assistance to this Department is scheduled to start in 1975.



- 6 -
The UNDP will provide the services of a resident adviser to the Department,
who will, in time, be assisted by short term specialists. The Bank was
instrumental in securing UNDP assistance to the Department and will follow
closely the progress of the studies to be carried out.
3. THE NATIONAL RAILWAY ENTERPRISE OF BOLIVIA (ENFE)
A.   General
3.01      ENFE was founded in 1964 to take over (a) the former British-owned
"Bolivian Railway Company" (BRC) main trunk lines of the Western System
(1,199 km) and (b) the Government-owned branch lines (992 km) radiating from
the BRC lines. In 1967, the Eastern lines, connecting Santa Cruz with Argentina
(532 km) and Brazil (651 km), were also transferred to ENFE and operated as
the Eastern System. In 1974, as part of an agreement with Peru, ENFE took
over the Guaqui-La Paz line (96 km). The only rail connection between the
Eastern and the Western Systems is via a 600-km detour through Argentina, over
the Belgrano railway (see Map).
B.   Organization and Management
3.02      ENFE is governed by a Board of Directors chaired by the Minister of
Transport and Communications. The other six members of the Board are repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Transport (1), of Industry and Commerce and of
Mining and Metallurgy (1), of the National Planning Council (1), of Labor (2),
and the General Manager (non-voting). The General Manager is appointed by the
President of the Republic and acts as chief executive: he refers most policy
cn-.-)1 o  LO e Board.  Agreement was reached during negotiations of the first
IDA Credit Lhat amendments to the Enterprise Law governing ENFE would not be
made withc - previous approval of the Association, and a similar clause has
.-en inlro.iced into the Guarantee Agreement.  The present organization of
!iNPT is iven in Chart 2.
.03     A group of young, able and dedicated engineers has recently joined
ENFE and is filling the gap in responsible personnel created by the early
retirement in 1970, largely under union pressure, of some 100 senior staff
members. The impact of these young engineers can be felt throughout ENFE,
but mostly in the crucial Mechanical and Shops Department., Training programs
have been started at all levels of the hierarchy, and the improvement in the
quality of work has been most noticeable in the workshops. Long discussions
of the work plan, involving management, the consultants and the union leaders,
have "sulteJ in an easement of past tensions and, in some cases, in close
co peration between management and labor.
'1rit     The last two General Managers were in office for about three years
each, and both maintained good relations with the consultants and with the Bank.
There has, therefore, been a good continuity in ENFE's incipient efforts
coward technical and financial rehabilitation, an effort which is developing



along three main lines: (a) improvement in operations, increase of freight
carried, and reduction of costs; (b) training of staff, at all levels, in
sound railway procedures and aggressive commercial policies; and (c) invest-
ment to rehabilitate the railways' equipment and facilities. The first two
lines of action have been carried out since October 1970, with the help of
consultants' services (SOFRERAIL) financed by the UNDP. The third line of
action was started in 1972 with the help of IDA Credit 346-BO for US$8.0
million. The purpose of this Second Railway Project is to provide for the
continuation of the three lines of action mentioned above and of tbe technical
assistance services when the UNDP-financed program terminates in September 1975.
3.05      In January 1975, the Government named a new General Manager and
considerably increased its financial and administrative help to ENFE. Because
of the strong backing of the Government, this new General Manager has been able
to take a number of positive measures for the improvement of ENFE's operation.
C.   Staff
3.06      The number of ENFE permanent employees on the Western System
decreased from 6,800 in 1957 to 4,850 in 1974; on the Eastern System, it
varied from 1,320 in 1971 to 1,390 in 1974. In addition to these 6,240
permanent employees, ENFE, in 1974, had about 450 employees under temporary
contracts. ENFE has already taken some steps to reduce and rationalize its
staff, e.g., in 1973-1974, it retired 487 of the 920 employees eligible for
retirement, and, whenever possible, it cancels the slot of a retired employee.
When this is not possible, ENFE fills the slot with an employee from con-
tracted force and cancels the contract position. A detailed study of the
manpower required by the Ways and Works Department was carried out by the
consultants and showed that some 200 additional employees were needed to carry
out the Work Program; similar studies are now being conducted throughout ENFE.
The final result of those studies will provide a clear idea of the size of
the staff needed by ENFE. During negotiations, the goal of 5,500 employees
in 1977 indicated in the IDA-Credit documents was revised and temporarily
fixed at 6,300.
3.07      Salaries for management and professional staff, scaled down from
the salary of the General Manager which, by law, cannot be higher than that
of a Minister of State, are competitive with those of other Government-owned
enterprises or agencies. The chaotic mix of the non-managerial and non-
professional salary systems of the different railways which were amalgamated
to form ENFE has now been unified and greatly simplified. Social benefits
in excess of those granted to employees of other Government-owned enterprises
are being reviewed.
D.   Railway Property
3.08      ENFE's track and structures will be adequate once essential renewals
of materials, particularly sleepers, track fittings and some rails, are com-
pleted and a number of badly understrength bridges are replaced. A first
tranche of the materials required for these renewals and substitutions has



-8-
been purchased under the first IDA Credit, and deliveries started in the second
half of 1974. Although a considerable program for scrapping part of the roll-
ing stock and rehabilitating the remainder is in full force, much new material
will be required to replace the scrapped units and to provide for expansion of
traffic. A brief description of the property is given in Annex 5.
E.   New Lines
3.09      Annex 6 gives details of new lines under construction or being
proposed. The Argentine-Bolivian Joint Commission, which built the Yacuiba-
Santa Cruz Line, is now building a 310-km extension from Santa Cruz to Puerto
Mamore, of which the first 120 km are completed but not in operation. This
extension will probably operate at a loss for many years. Furthermore, its
construction is below ENFE's standards, and ENFE will have to improve the
track substantially before it can start commercial operations. The Credit
Agreement of the First Railway Project (section 4.04) stipulates that (a)
the Puerto Mamore-Trinidad extension of this line would not be built until
economic studies had been carried out and the Association had been given an
opportunity to exchange views with the Government; (b) the finances of the
new Santa Cruz-Puerto Mamore line or any extension thereof will be separated
from those of ENFE until operating revenues on these lines cover operating
expenses and debt service; and (c) the Government will reimburse ENFE for
any losses derived from the operations of such lines once they are incorporated
into ENFE. During negotiations, it was agreed to include these stipulations
in the Guarantee Agreement for the Second Railway Project, with the additional
proviso that the incremental cost of upgrading the lines built by the Joint
Commission to ENFE's operational standards will be underwritten by the Govern-
ment. It was also agreed that the investment for the interconnection of the
Eastern and Western Systems will be made only after an adequate study demon-
strating the economic justification has been made, and the Bank has been given
a reasonable opportunity to comment on said study. Finally, it was agreed
that the accounts of the Guaqui-La Paz Line (para. 3.01) would continue to be
kept separately from those of ENFE until the line's operations can be reorgan-
ized, and its revenues will cover its operating and financial expenses. Until
such time, the Government will underwrite the line's deficit.
F.   Operations
3.10      Train operations were drastically changed by the introduction of
the "Transport Plan" concept on the Western System in August 1971 and on the
Eastern System in mid-1973, by the creation of Command Posts (Oruro, 1971;
Santa Cruz, 1973; La Paz, 1974) to control and govern train circulation, and
by the inception of a new system of car allocation. The new methods, in spite
of the poor level of telecommunications, brought significant improvements to
ENFE's operation. Unfortunately, the constant and increasing problems expe-
rienced by ENFE with its diesel traction since 1972, and the year long inter-
ruption of the main line north of Oruro caused by the January 1974 floods,
have severely eroded the progress achieved. The system, however jeopardized
by circumstances, has nevertheless subsisted, and it is expected that the
full benefits of the new methods will be felt throughout ENFE as a result of



- 9 -
the rehabilitation of the diesel locomotives, of the complete elimination of
steam traction by 1979, of the reopening of the main line Viacha-Oruro early
in 1975, and of the improvement of telecommunications under the Second Railway
Project. Selected operating statistics are given in Table 1.
G.   Commercial Policy
3.11      One of the many problems which ENFE had to face when it was created
was the aggressive competition, in the western region, of the young trucking
industry, competition which ENFE fought mostly by granting arbitrary tariff
rebates. Under the guidance of the consultants, a Commercial Department was
created in 1973, and the foundations of a commercial policy were established.
Transport unit costs are now being calculated by the Planning Department and
used by the Commercial Department to establish rates and fares. As a matter
of commercial policy, no effort is made to compete with highways where the
odds are too high, as, for example, ini passenger traffic between La Paz and
Oruro. On the other hand, the new tariff structure favors the users of com-
plete freight cars. The Commercial Department has been surveying possible
customers and trying to find solutions to their transport problems. It has
had some success, but its action is limited by ENFE's traction and equipment
shortages, by the interruption of the main line, and by poor telecommunications.
With the improvement of the quality of its services, ENFE should be able to
attract new customers.
4. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   The Plan
4.01      A US$2.32 million program of technical assistance to ENFE, financed
by UNDP grants, started in 1970 and will terminate in September 1975. Its
purpose is to (a) prepare a plan for ENFE's technical and financial rehabili-
tation; (b) help ENFE implement a series of Action Programs (Annex 7); and
(c) train ENFE's staff in modern engineering, managing and commercial prac-
tices. In 1972, ENFE, with the help of its consultants, prepared a five-year
Investment and Rehabilitation Plan (1973-1977), the objectives of which were
to make up heavy arrears in maintenance of track and equipment, to complete
the dieselization of the traction power, to renew the over-aged rolling stock
plant, to modernize the workshops and to improve operations.
4.02      In 1974, again with the assistance of its consultants, ENFE revised
and updated the Investment Plan, extending it to cover the 1975-1979 period
and to intensify the pursuit of the objectives defined for the first plan.
Additional technical assistance will be required at the operational level
after October 1975, when the rehabilitation program will be gathering momentum
with the arrival of spares, tools, materials and equipment.
4.03      The Investment Plan for 1975-1979 has been reviewed and slightly
modified by the Bank, in agreement with ENFE. Investments in each sector have
been reduced to the minimum level below which further compression would harm



- 10 -
the inner balance of the rehabilitation program. It was agreed during
negotiations that the Government and ENFE will implement the full Plan, will
review it periodically, and will make no changes without the previous agree-
ment of the Bank. Annex 8 describes the main items of the 1975-1979
Investment Plan. Table 2 gives the details of the Plan; a summary follows.
1975-1979 Investment Plan Summary
% of
$b million               US$ million            Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Expenditure
1. Way and Works and
Telecommunications  217.4    404.0    621.4  10.9    20.2    31.1    31.8
2. Rolling Stock                -    468.0    468.0       -    23.4    23.4    24.0
3. Motive Power                 -    226.0    226.0       -    11.3    11.3    11.6
4. Rehabilitation of
Rolling Stock and
Motive Power           11.7      56.0      67.7   0.6       2.8     3.4      3.5
5. Station Installations   1.7         4.0       5.7   0.1       0.2      0.3      0.3
6. W4orkshops                6.0      28.0      34.0   0.3       1.4      1.7      1.7
7. Technical Assistance    2.3        32.0      34.3   0.1       1.6      1.7      1.7
8. Base Cost Estimate    239.1  1,218.0  1,457.1  12.0    60.9    72.9    74.6
(Dec. 1974 prices)
9. Contingencies
Physical               20.3      12.0      32.3   1.0      0.6      1.6      1.6
Price /1              152.9    310.0    462.9   7.6    15.5    23.1    23.8
10. Grand Total             412.3  1,540.0  1,952.3  20.6    77.0    97.6   100.0
/1   Price contingencies are based on estimated date of commitment.
B.   The _r oJ,ct and the Proposed Loan
4.04       The project consists of: (a) investments included in ENFE's Five-
Year Investment Plan and which are to be committed in 1975 and 1976 (paras.
4.05 and 4.06); and (b) a program of teclnical assistance, mostly at the
operational level (Annex 9). In the First Railway Project, the emphasis was
primarily on completing the consultants' recommendations and on starting their
implementation, with a small investment in capital goods. In the Second Rail-
way Project, the investment will be substantially higher; the progress in
ENFEis management and organization justifies this shift in emphasis. A detailed
description of the project and of the items to be financed by the proposed loan
is given in Table 3.  A summary is given on the next page.



- 11 -
% of
$b million              US$ million           Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Expenditure
1. Way and Works and
Telecommunications   99.9   170.0   269.9   5.0         8.5   13.5    42.8
2. Rolling Stock               -   162.0   162.0      -       8.1    8.1    25.6
3. Motive Power                -    78.0    78.0      -       3.9    3.9    12.3
4. Rehabilitation of
Rolling Stock and
Motive Power          10.5    56.0    66.5   0.5         2.8    3.3    10.4
5. Station Installations   0.3       4.0      4.3   0.1       0.2    0.3      1.0
6. Workshops                6.0    28.0    34.0   0.3         1.4    1.7      5.4
7. Technical Assistance    2.3    14.0    16.3   0.1          0.7    0.8      2.5
8. Base Cost Estimate
(Dec. 1974 prices)   119.0   512.0   631.0   6.0        25.6   31.6   100.0
9. Contingencies:
(a) Physical            10        6      16      0.5      0.3    0.8      2.5
Subtotal           129     518      647      6.5     25.9   32.4   102.5  100
(b) Price increases-  51       122      173      2.5      6.1    8.6             26.5
10. Grand Total            180      640     820      9.0      32.0   41.0           126.5
/1   Estimated for the expected dates of delivery.
4.05      The items which had to be eliminated from the First Railway Project
because of sharp cost increases have been incorporated into the new project.
Included in way and works are (a) essential track works, materials, rail,sleepers,
tools and equipment, needed to continue and expand the track rehabilitation;
(b) replacement of bridges in the Uyuni area; (c) earthmoving equipment for
the sectors affected by floods, especially between Oruro and Cochabamba; (d)
telecommunication materials and equipment, possibly the most urgent item of
the plan; and (e) equipment for producing, transporting and placing ballast.
Motive power includes six main line diesel electric locomotives and two
ferrobuses. Rolling stock includes 300 freight cars and five passenger cars-
4.06      Rehabilitation of rolling stock and motive power includes the pro-
vision of (a) components to rehabilitate existing diesel locomotives, rail-
cars, freight and passenger cars and (b) a basic stock of spare parts, essen-
tial to implement a rational maintenance program. In order to avoid the
crippling downtime of motive power which has plagued ENFE during the last
three years, this basic stock has to be of sufficient volume to compensate
for the exceptionally long lead time for deliveries from the Japanese manu-
facturers. Operations includes some cargo handling equipment for the main
stations. Workshops includes machine tools, hand tools, and control and
measuring devices.



- 12 -
4.07      Technical assistance includes the services of experts to help im-
plement the consultants' recommendations, update them where necessary, and
train the staff in modern operational and administrative railway procedures.
Draft terms of reference and a bar chart for the technical assistance are
given in Annex 9.
4.08      Cost estimates are based on late 1974 prices; physical contingencies
for local currency costs, which correspond mostly to civil engineering works,
were assumed to be 8.5% and, for foreign currency costs, were assumed to vary
between 0% (for locomotives) and 5% (certain tools and spares), and their
weighted average of 1% was adopted. Price contingencies for local currency
expenditures were assumed to be 20% in 1975, 17.5% in 1976, and 15% in 1977.
For foreign currency expenditures, average contingencies of 12% in 1975, 10%
in 1976, and 8% in 1977 were applied.
C.   The Action Program
4.09      Although ENFE's progress in implementing the Action Program under
Credit 346-BO was slowed down by a number of factors (the very long lead
time for delivery of certain equipments and materials purchased under the
Credit, the disastrous interruptions of lines, caused by the January 1974
floods, the scarcity of financial and material reserves), positive results
were nevertheless achieved in several fields. A more detailed review of
the progress achieved appears in Annex 10. A revised Action Program designed
to achieve quantitative targets of performance in operations and finance and
to continue the rehabilitation in each sector (Annex 7) was agreed during
negotiations and will be carried out by ENFE with the assistance of SOFRERAIL.
D.  Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      The progress realized by ENFE's staff and management during the last
few years qualified them, with the specialized assistance of the consultants,
to execute the project. The new management has taken energetic measures to
accelerate the rehabilitation of ENFE and appears to enjoy urnprecedented
Government support.
4.11      The proposed Bank loan for the project would cover the estimated
foreign exchange cost (US$32.0 million). It was agreed during negotiations
that contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000
could be awarded after solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers
in Bank Member Countries (and Switzerland). However, the total value of goods
purchased in this manner shall not be more than the equivalent of US$400,000.
Except for this and for the procurement of the items discussed below in para-
graphs 4.13 and 4.14, all goods financed under the proposed loan would be pro-
cured by international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guide-
lines on Procurement. Bolivia is a member of the Latin America Free Trade
Association (ALALC), but preferential trade agreements are not applicable in
the case of ENFE because it is exempt from duties on imported equipment.



- 13 -
4.12      Under the project, ENFE needs to acquire only two ferrobuses for the
Eastern System. They should be identical to the 10 already owned by ENFE, for
operational and maintenance reasons. In the First Railway Project, the purchase
of three ferrobuses was the object of an international call for bids. The maker
of the existing ferrobuses, Ferrostal from Germany, submitted the lowest eval-
uated bid. The order was not placed because of the decreased purchasing
power of the IDA Credit, but Ferrostal decided to maintain its offer until the
end of 1975, with the normal escalation clause. ENFE intends to take advantage
of this situation, and the purchase will be financed under the proposed loan.
No bilateral financing could be found by ENFE for this equipment.
4.13      Spare parts needed for the rehabilitation of the existing rolling
stock and for the enlargement of the stock for normal and periodic repairs
of the existing equipment must come, of necessity, from the manufacturers
of the equipment and should be the object of direct negotiations. This
item is estimated at US$2.8 million, not including financial contingencies.
4.14      ENFE's diesel electric line locomotive fleet consists of 19 units
purchased in Japan (from Hitachi and Mitsubishi, Associated). It is envisaged
to purchase six additional diesel electric locomotives under the present
project and seven under the next one (1978). The thirteen diesel locomotives
should be purchased either from the manufacturer of the existing locomotives,
or though international competitive bidding restricted to the manufacturers
of the locomotives operating in the neighboring countries. In the first case,
the great advantage would be the standardization of the fleet; the main
objection would be the necessity for maintaining a large stock of spare parts
because of the unusually long lead time required to obtain spares from the
Japanese manufacturer. In the second case, the advantages would comprise the
interchange of equipment, spare parts and crews with the neighboring countries,
the possible use of their facilities for training and for repair of equip-
ment, and the opportunity to have certain infrequent but necessary repairs
made without having to equip ENFE's workshops with the expensive equipment
required. This procedure for the locomotive procurement was agreed during
negotiations. At the Bank's suggestion, ENFE has been inquiring about the
possibility of obtaining bilateral financing for the purchase of locomotives.
Since no firm commitment has yet been obtained from any source, it was agreed
at negotiations to maintain the amount of the loan at US$32 million and to
make conditional all disbursements for locomotives until ENFE gives the Bank
satisfactory evidence that such bilateral financing is not available. Should
bilateral financing become available, an amount of US$3.3 million of the loan
will be canceled.
4.15      After October 1975, when UNDP financing will terminate, ENFE will
have to contract technical assistance services. ENFE has decided to retain,
through direct negotiations, the same consultants, SOFRERAIL, who have been
helping them since 1970.
4.16      The proposed loan of US$32 million would cover the estimated foreign
exchange component and would be equivalent to 78% of the total project cost
of US$41 million. The balance of funds required for the completion of the



- 14 -
project would be generated by ENFE and contributions from the Bolivian
Government. The loan would be disbursed over a period of about three years.
Disbursements would be made for the full CIF cost of imported goods and for
the foreign cost of technical assistance required for the project. The
estimated quarterly and annual rates of disbursement of the proposed loan are
given in Annex 11. It is proposed that, if there are any savings in loan-
financed items of the project, they will be used to finance the foreign
exchange costs of similar items of the plan subject to review and agreement
with the Bank, or otherwise be canceled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      ENFE's Investment Plan is a coordinated program of rehabilitation,
modernization and increase in transport capacity, designed to enable the
railways to perform efficiently and to carry the traffic forecast for the
1975-1979 period. If the Investment Plan is not implemented, declining
quality of service and diminishing capability to move traffic will result
partly in diversions to more expensive transport modes and partly in complete
loss of traffic in areas where roads do not exist.
5.02      The Investment Plan for the years 1975-1976 has been prepared on a
prudent basis, including only high priority works and acquisitions, whose
postponement beyond 1976 would be highly detrimental to adequate operation.
All measures indispensable to the full rehabilitation and adequate operation
of the existing equipment have been considered. New acquisitions of locomo-
tives and cars have been reduced to the minimum level compatible with the
traffic to be served, assuming that improvements in the utilization of the
equipment are obtained and that the heavy reliance on foreign equipment is
only partially reduced.
5.03      The full benefit of the investment in any one item (renovation of
track, modernization of shops, rehabilitation and acquisition of equipment)
is, to a large extent, dependent on the implementation of investment in other
items; for this reason, the economic evaluation considers the plan as a whole,
separating only the returns of investments on the Eastern and Western systems
of the railroad. The rate of return was calculated taking into account two
alternatives: (a) making no investment in the railway and (b) implementing
the Investment Plan. A detailed analysis of the economic costs used in each
alternative and the procedures used to estimate them apptar in Annex 12. A
special evaluation was also made of the return of the dieselization program
and of the improvement of the line between Oruro and Cochabamba.
B.   Economic Benefits of the Plan
5.04      The economic benefits of the plan are obtained by avoiding the
additional costs which would otherwise burden the Bolivian economy if the
railway Investment Plan were not implemented. These costs are: (a) the higher



- 15 -
cost of transporting by road the freight and passengers lost by the railroads
if the plan is not implemented; (b) the economic cost of partial loss of
traffic in the east where no reasonable alternative to railway exists; and
(c) the cost of increased transport time due to the lack of capacity without
the plan. Items (a) and (b) generate about 89% of total benefits, item (c)
11%. No allowance is made for the increase in highway construction expenditures
if the plan is not implemented. For calculating the marginal cost of transport
by road, an estimate of economic costs was used (Annex 13). The assumption was
made that, after 1980, these costs will decrease by 10%, after 1985, by 20%,
and, after 1990, by 30%, as a result of road improvement.
5.05      A traffic forecast for ENFE up to 1980, assuming the Investment
Plan is carried out, was prepared by SOFRERAIL and ENFE and reviewed by the
Bank. For freight, it shows that traffic will grow in ton-km at a rate of
4.3% on the Western System and 9.9% on the Eastern System, resulting in an
overall growth of 6.3% p.a. For passenger traffic, the projected annual
growth in pass-km is 4.5% for the west and 3.4% for the east. Annex 14
explains the methodology and assumptions used in the traffic forecast and
contains a detailed analysis of future traffic by major commodities. The
revised version of the traffic forecast is given in Tables 4 and 5.
5.06      In the absence of the plan, rail traffic is expected to decrease
steadily, reaching, in 1980, a level of 60% of projected freight traffic and
64% of projected passenger traffic on the Western System and a level of 50%
for freight and 58% for passengers on the Eastern System. It was assumed
that, in the absence of the plan, freight traffic will decrease at 6% a year
until 1986 on the Western System, remaining constant at the 1986 level there-
after. On the Eastern System, after 1981, traffic is assumed to remain con-
stant in the no-plan alternative. This same assumption was made regarding
passengers on both systems. With the plan, freight traffic after 1980 was
assumed to grow at 6% a year on the Eastern System and at 3% on the Western.
Passenger traffic was assumed to remain stable on the Western System and to
increase at 2% a year on the Eastern (Table 6).
5.07      A quite substantial portion of the benefits of the program is ex-
plained by the fact that, in spite of the sizable differences in traffic
moved with and without the plan between 1975 and 1980, the difference in the
total cost of operation of the railroads is relatively small. This indicates
that, without the plan, the railroads face a reduction of capacity not
paralleled by a significant reduction of costs, since most costs, to a large
extent, are fixed. The estimates of long-run rail marginal costs for freight,
made on a conservative basis, indicate that they are about 42% of the alternative
cost by road. In the case of passenger traffic, the lorig-run possibilities
of the railroads on the Western System, while questionable in general (para.
2.13), are probably good for some routes and some services for which buses
cannot favorably compete. On the Eastern System, the lack of alternatives
for the relevant future constitutes a very favorable situation for the railway.



- 16 -
C.   Rate of Economic Return, Sensitivity and Risk Analyses
5.08      The rate of return expected for the overall program is 24%.  For the
investment on the Western System, it is 21% and for the investment on the
Eastern, it is 28%. An extensive sensitivity analysis of the rates of return
estimated for the Eastern and Western Networks and for the overall program was
performed. The variation of these rates to the independent increase or decrease
of each of the cost and benefit streams used in the calculation was tested.
Tests were also made of the sensitivity of the rate of return to the joint
variation of correlated streams and to variations in the estimated traffic
with and without the program. The rate of return is most sensitive to the
estimated cost of moving the displaced freight and passengers by road when
the plan is not implemented. A 30% decrease in this cost will reduce the
rate of return to 13% on the Western and to 20% on the Eastern System, leaving
the overall rate at 16%. The rate of return is quite insensitive to a 10%
reduction in the traffic projected with the plan since this reduction will only
postpone the investments in locomotives and rolling stock of the 1977-1978
period to 1980-1981, leaving the return practically equal. A risk analysis
was made assuming probabilities for the consolidated values of cost and benefit
streams. This analysis shows that the probability of obtaining a rate of
return below 10% for the overall program is 4% and that of obtaining a rate
of return below 15% is 15%.
D.   Basic Criteria Used in Preparing the Plan and the Project
5.09      Conservative criteria have been used for dimensioning the program
of acquisition of new equipment. In the east, even with the acquisition of
three new locomotives between 1975 and 1976, reliance on foreign traction will
continue. The acquisition of freight cars in the east and west reduces,
but does not eliminate, the deficit of car exchanges with other countries.
Passenger traffic is carried, until 1977, essentially with the equipment
now available and that to be rehabilitated. Even with the acquisition of new
equipment, the occupancy ratios will still remain well above normal. The
danger of excessive investment in new equipment is practically nil. Less
conservative criteria have been used to project the needs to 1979 in order
to avoid underestimating the investment required. These needs should be
reviewed on the basis of the 1975-1976 experience.
6. FINANCES
A.   Accounts, Budgets and Audit
(i) Accounts
6.01      With the assistance of consultants SOFRERAIL, who designed the
schedule of expenses, ENFE revised its accounting system starting January 1974.
The new operating accounts present an accurate picture of the railways and are
suitable for cost analysis purposes. Further technical assistance will be



- 17 -
provided to improve balance sheet presentation and to complete the training
of personnel in the new mechanized accounting procedures. A revaluation of
assets was only partly done and incorporated into the assets accounts for
1974. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the remaining assets
will be revalued and that the results will be incorporated into the 1975
balance sheet. ENFE has also agreed to submit to the Bank a report on the
revaluation of assets, together with the auditors' report and comments.
(ii) Budgets
6.02      In October of each year, ENFE prepares and submits to the Ministry
of Finance the financial requirements for railway operations and local invest-
ments for the ensuing year. The Ministry then adjusts the requirements accord-
ing to the availability of Government funds. In 1973 and 1974, Government
contributions toward ENFE's cash requirements for local investment and debt
service charges improved considerably over previous years ($b 74 million in
1973 and $b 101 million in 1974), although these contributions were not always
made in advance, every month, as was agreed untder Credit Agreement 346-BO.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Guarantor will provide to ENFE,
during the first week of each quarter, funds that are required to cover the
estimated expenditure for the following quarter not covered by ENFE's operating
revenues. These funds will be required for railway operations, local invest-
ment and debt service charges.
(iii) Audit
6.03      In accordance with legal dispositions, the external audit of ENFE's
accounts is carried out by the Contraloria General de la Republica; however,
the Contraloria is behind schedule in its auditing programs of 1973 and 1974.
The submission to the Bank of the 1973 audit report is a condition for loan
effectiveness. The Contraloria has recently strengthened its staff and it
has informed ENFE that it will submit the 1973 report before June 30, 1975
and the 1974 report by October 31, 1975. The submission of future audit
reports to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year was
agreed during negotiations.
B.   Financial Position
6.04      ENFE has faced financial difficulties since its creation in 1964.
In 1968, the working ratio reached a high of 109; this was due to the poor
state of its plant, to deficits in operations, caused mainly by failure to
raise tariffs in order to compensate for inflation, and to inadequate financial
assistance from the Government to meet local investment requirements. In 1969,
there was an improvement since traffic and revenues increased by 17% while
expenses rose by only 5%, thus improving the working ratio from 109 to 93.
However, after 1970, the financial situation gradually deteriorated, and the
working ratio increased from 93 in 1969 to 122 in 1973. Between 1969 and
1973, the revenues increased by 31%, whereas the costs jumped by 91% mainly
due to increases in staff costs. The net operating loss increased from $b 31
million in 1971 to $b 82 million in 1973. Income and expense figures for 1968
to 1974 are given in Table 7.



- 18 -
6.05      The balance sheets for the years 1970 to 1974 are represented in
Table 8.  The major portion of current assets in 1973 consisted of railway
stores, which were high in relation to operating costs and included many slow
moving and obsolete materials. Most of the receivables (sundry debtors)
represent amounts which have been outstanding as much as ten years, many of
them from firms no longer in existence; they should now be treated as bad
debts and written off. The working capital has been decreasing since 1970
and, although the Government contributions were gradually increasing, they were
not adequate or timely until 1973. Long-term debts amounted to $b 96 million
in 1973 and consisted mainly of a foreign loan from Japan to finance diesel
locomotives and freight cars. All principal and interest payments are being
met by the Government. In order to improve ENFE's financial situation, tariffs
were raised substantially in November 1973 and February 1974, but the situation
did not improve because of even higher rises in costs. Staff costs have doubled
since 1969, and material costs have gone up by about 60% since 1973. ENFE's
losses on subsidized food "pulperias" have gone up nearly ten-fold since 1971.
The cash position of ENFE was critical during 1974.
C.   Tariffs and Costs as of December 1974
6.06      ENFE's tariff structure remained basically unchanged between 1964
and 1972. It was based on six commodity classifications, varying according
to the route of shipment. In many cases, the revenues failed to cover even
the variable costs of railway operations. In order to alleviate this, ENFE
first adopted a new and unified tariff structure in 1972, then raised tariffs
substantially in late 1973 and early 1974 for both freight and passenger
services. This resulted in recovering the variable portion of freight costs.
The average revenue per ton-km for the system in 1973 was $b 0.42, and the
variable cost was about $b 0.34 per ton-km. While this indicates an improvement,
the revenues still fell short of fully allocated costs. For passenger services,
the ferrobuses and second class conventional trains are recovering long run
variable costs but contributing very little toward the recovery of fixed
costs. First class passenger services are not recovering even the variable
costs. Passenger trains are facing very keen competition between La Paz-
Oruro-Cochabamba of the Western System. As mentioned in paragraph 2.13,
a review of the railroads' future role in passenger transportation should be
performed before any additional long term investment is made in this sector.
ENFE has decided to conduct a study of first class passenger services with
the aim of absorbing variable costs either by increasing fares or reducing
costs. Bus fares, in many cases, are lower than railway fares. At the end
of 1974, a detailed study of railway variable costs, railway rates and fares,
truck rates and bus fares was conducted by ENFE with Bank assistance, and
it was concluded that it was necessary and feasible to increase freight
tariffs.



- 19 -
D.   Future Prospects
6.07      In January 1975, ENFE, with Government approval, raised freight
tariffs substantially. The general cargo and mineral rates were increased by
68%, and basic food commodities were increased, first by 68% and then by
another 52%. Even after such increases, ENFE's tariffs are not expected to
adversely affect the international traffic which constitutes 75% of its business.
The Government's main objective in approving such high tariffs is to make ENFE
financially self-sufficient. In December 1974, the Government also (a)
tranferred $b 6.0 million to ENFE toward the retirement of 123 over-aged
personnel and their replacement by younger men presently under contract (an
annual saving of over $b 2.0 million); (b) agreed to close ENFE's medical
services, from March 1975, transferring its responsibilities to the Caja de
Seguro Social de Ferroviarios y Anexos (an annual saving of about $b 10.0
million) and (c) arranged an immediate short-term loan of $b 95.0 million for
badly needed working capital. No increase was implemented in passenger train
fares in view of keen competition with buses. The passenger revenues in 1975
form only 10% of total revenue against 15% in 1973.
6.08      Based on the traffic forecast discussed in Chapter 5, the above-
mentioned tariff increases and the proposed Investment Plan, a forecast of
operating revenues and expenses was prepared for the years 1975-1979 (Table 7),
showing resulting financial improvements. The assumptions and explanatory
notes are provided in Annex 15.
6.09      The forecast income accounts are shown in Table 7 and a summary is
shown in the following:
1975      1976       1977      1978    1979
-- ($b million) ---------------
Operating revenues                   475.6      500.8      525.1    549.1   573.3
Working expenses                     404.9      423.7      432.8    435.5   448.4
Working revenues                      60.7       77.1       92.3    113.6   124.9
Depreciation                          51.8       54.1       66.2     80.0    91.8
Net operating revenues                18.9       23.0       26.1     33.6    33.1
Working ratio /1                      85 (90)   85 (84)   82 (79)  79         78
Operating ratio L/                    96(104)   95 (98)   95 (92)  94         94
/1   Figures in brackets are from appraisal forecast for the first railway
project.
6.10      Average freight revenue per ton-km rose from $b 0.301 in 1971 to
$b 0.420 in 1973, a 40% increase in two years, but, due to recent substantial
tariff increases, the revenue is expected to increase to about $b 0.95 per
ton-km in 1975 through 1979 in terms of 1974 constant peso value, an increase
of 126% from 1973. Average revenue per passenger-km rose from $b 0.103 in
1971 to $b 0.112 in 1973 and is expected to rise to $b 0.170 in 1979 due to
a higher traffic increase in railcar service, for which fares are higher than
for second class. ENFE is expected to generate sufficient income to cover



- 20 -
all the operating costs, debt service charges and local investments for 1975;
however, during 1976 to 1979, it will need some financial support from the
Government because of higher local investment cost for rehabilitation and
much greater interest charges.
6.11      As a result of tariff increases and Government financial assistance
(para. 6.07), ENFE is in a much stronger financial position than it was until
a few months ago. Freight traffic is also rising at the rate of 6.3% per
annum (para. 5.05). The total revenue is expected to double from 1974 to 1979
while total operating costs are expected to increase by 38% in constant Bolivian
pesos. Therefore, there should be no doubt that significant progress can be
made by ENFE to achieve the financial targets mentioned in the Action Programs
(Annex 7). In 1979, the working and operating ratios are estimated to be 78
and 94; respectively. In order to prevent a deterioration of ENFE's finances,
an agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would allow
ENFE to promptly raise its tariffs by an amount sufficient to offset increases
in costs.
6.12      Achievement of the financial targets is highly dependent upon the
projections of ENFE's freight traffic. This traffic depends on exports and
imports which can be affected by world trade conditions and Government policies.
The sensitivity of the financial projections to a reduction of 5% and 10% in
traffic was examined. A 5% fall would reduce ENFE's earnings by about $b 42.0
million for 1975-1976 and by about $b 112.0 million over the plan period; 10%
would result in reduction of $b 85.0 million and $b 226 million, respectively.
The annual working and operating ratios would deteriorate from about 4 to 7
points, respectively.
E.   Financing Plan
6.13      Table 9 gives the details of cash flow and the financing plan, and
a summary is presented in the following. Since project items extend into 1978,
the financing plan was prepared to cover the plan period of 1975-1979.
1975-1979       %
($b million)
Requirement of Funds
Investment:  Proposed Project             644
Other                        863       1,507          80
Debt service                                           354          19
Other                                                   27           1
1,888        100
Source of Funds
Internal generation by ENFE                            478          25
Proposed Bank loan                        515
Other loans from international sources 714
IDA Credit (346-BO)                         14       1,243          66
Government                                              167          9
1,888         100



The Government coatribution is about 9% of total funds required, while the
proposed Bank Loan, other loans from international sources and the balance of
IDA Credit 346-BO represent 66% and ENFE 25%.
6.14      Because of a substantial increase in ENFE's internally generated
cash, the Government's financial obligation for 1975-1979 will be on the order
of about 170 million pesos. From 1980 onward, ENFE's cash requirement for
local investment sthould be reduced considerably, but, at the same time, ENFE's
debt service charges will be increased because the grace period for the proposed
loan will end in that year. It is anticipated that ENFE should be able to
carry the total financial burden on its own beyond 1980.
6.15      Assuming further borrowing in 1978 on the same terms as the proposed
Bank loan, to finance the foreign costs of the last two years of the Investment
Plan, ENFE's debt to total capitalization will increase to 59% by the end of
1979. Debt coverage in that year will be 1.1 times, but may decline slightly
in 1980 when the grace period comes to a close. In order to maintain ENFE's
financial position, the amount and terms of future borrowing should be carefully
controlled and limited. Agreement was reached during negotiations that FNFE
will not incur any further debt without the Bank's agreement unless net cash
generated from operations is at least 1.25 times maximum future debt service
requirements when such debt is incurred.
6.16      The forecast balance sheets have been prepared by including estimated
revaluation of the gross assets and the related depreciation, financing plan
and forecast operating results. Summary forecast balance sheets for years
1975-1979 are given in Table 8. From 1975 onward, the liquid cash position
improves; railways stores and accounts receivable are expected to grow
simultaneously with operating expenses and freight revenues.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7,01      During negotiations, the following major agreements were reached
with the Government and ENFE:
(a)  The extension of the Santa Cruz-Puerto Mamore Line to Trinidad
will be made only after economic studies thereof have been
carried out and the Bank has been given a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views (para. 3.09);
(b) The finances of the new Santa Cruz-Puerto Mamore Line or any
extension thereof will be separated from those of ENFE until
operating revenues on these lines cover operating expenses and
and debt service (para. 3.09);
(c) Investments for the interconnection of the Eastern and Western
Systems will be made only after economic studies have been
carried out and the Bank has been given a reasonable opportunity
to submit comments (para. 3.09);



- 22 -
(d)  The cost of upgrading the lines built by the Joint ComhisSion
to ENFE's operational standards will be underwritten by the
Government (para. 3.09);
(e) The accounts of the Guaqui-La Paz Line will be kept separate
from those of ENFE until the line's revenues are sufficient
to cover its operating and financial expenses. Until such
time, the Government will compensate ENFE for any deficit
resulting from the operation of said line (para. 3.09);
(f) The Government and ENFE will carry out the full Investment
Plan, will review it periodically, and will make no charges
without the previous agreement of the Bank (para. 4.03);
(g) ENFE will carry out the agreed Action Program (para. 4.09);
(h) If ENFE obtains bilateral financing for the procurement of
diesel locomotives,an amount of US$3.3 million of the loan will
be canceled. Otherwise, the locomotives will be procured after
competition among the manufacturers of the units used in Bolivia
or in Bolivia's neighboring countries (para. 4.14);
(i) The Government will provide in advance, in the first week
of each quarter, the funds necessary to cover ENFE's
estimated shortfall, if any, in operating, debt services,
and investment expenses during said quarter (para. 6.02);
(j) The Government will allow ENFE to promptly increase its
fares and tariffs by an amount sufficient to offset increases
in cost (para. 6.11);
(k) ENFE will not incur long-term debts without the Bank's
agreement unless net cash revenue is at least 1.25 times
the maximum future debt service requirement (para. 6.15).
7.02      The submission of ENFE's 1973 audit report will be a condition for
loan effectiveness (para. 6.03).
7.03      The proposed project provides a suitable base for a loan of US$32
million equivalent to ENFE, with a guarantee of the Government, to be repaid
over a period of 25 years, including a grace period of five years.
May ', 1975



BOLIVIA 
A?011AI0A1 OF A BE01*1  RATLWAY PROJ20T                                                                                                                        TAM1 
1969                            1970                             1971                             1970                             1973                               1976
TU.i              0        E       TOOTblE        I         E      OceAlt          Et                TOTAL          0         0      TOTAL           W         I      TOT&1         S          IC       TOTAL,
On-to                                              An               2 101    1,22 2    3,3 23       2,102    1,222   3,322           2,101   0, 222   3,323           2,101    1,222    3,3023           10      1,222    3,323        0,701    1,0202    3,313
22.   ORAFI'tC
Passege-  -arIed                                   000                964       2527   1,221        1,002       228    1,230           924       224    1,130           907       243    1,130            869      290    1,149          668       766        934
Feee-g- knn                                        nil1.              192        63      211           210        50      269          210        59       269          194,       66       260           182       97       269         145        96        oh1
l-nran   Jn-rn                                     Inc                700      243       200           210      258       220          230       265       232          2 10      272       230           210      312       2035        016       363        0905
Freight net coca  caried -  0ev. earnig    000                        004       205    2,189           936      140    1.907           906       210    1,221           749       222       971          732       22.       955         609       275        955
Freight  e    o  km - R.-.nn   earing               090               001        92      373           259       60       319           261       04       34 7         045       III       32 6         030       2375      365         2oo       12.5       359
Avera.ge Ome                                       A                  297      440       313           272      430       295          2898      400       310          327       S00       360          30        5201      303         311       5206       354
Tr-tfir Ot  c-  ce                                                     73-      123      620           460      210       306i         471       243       610          430       177       616          437       202       634         353       24.1       594
Paee-gr-k,a per Rcofr'Ae.                           000                92        52        72          102       40        S2          100        49        Al            02       34        78            96       71        82        69          79         73
Freight In-n      -e ne-knI                         0n0               103        75      209           122        50       96           124       20       104          111        91       107          f9         9n       fLlO       99         413        oo6
1V.  TRA03 RUN 
TrI-le - Pseger                              000               630        90       710
Freight                               000             1,360        170    2,030
-   tla                               000              1,990       750    2,740
-rnac-km    r .e..ge                            eiI.              109        23       222
- re.igh                           coO.              593       256      8019
-T.ci1                             oIl,              002       290   1,771
rce-  Toed nO   teegil r-eo                          n                435       380      410
let lead of Lenigh   taO                             a200                       137       184
Nmbee of etaclonotil-  In fleet                                        04        44      120            15       37        12            53       37        92           6c        L.V       75           65        1         72        60          1.5         75
OneO-enfetnnotoolcnp-t-in                                              36        27        03           32        22       34            32       22        34           202                 31           23         9        30        006          9         32
N-b-hr  at rain line dir-c i -Ioninaa                                  20         5        25           20         3        23           22         5       25            20         5       27            20         5      25         i9                     24
A-eilability                                       'A                  70        62        72           72        60        72           25        60       2             70        00       61            49        30      45         6o          403         55
et,   tad-.1e   -ion-in Oct                   O20                 43       On        69          '64        21        65                                                                            159        44     149        732
OnaO.enstF glototOng dlonl  l'pnnnutvrn               I         -                     4         -L                               4 -       43                                4            4          -            4                4-a
N-nOe   of dieol relinaa                                                h                  12          '02         2        22           00         2       12            22         2        12            to         0      12        IC           2         42
OA-l.lbility                                                           903      100        92           16        56        56           60                               58        65        60           57        30       49        10          33          45
Sonbor of ncecogOrnar                                          231         0      28            10         0 03 0                  0       60 i8                                                    84        33     1i7         34          33        n17
A-ilobOIity                                         72                  69       32        63                                                                                                              87        79       85        45          39          43
N,n,br at  cncna   000000 tof-it  cane                      1,353       4.34   1,041         1,354       464    1,643        2,310       404    1,843         1,262        463    1,702         1,109       h71  1,759    7,104,           548      1,470
tnabon ofatooltealrfOleog  1oc                                ,056       315    1,321                            1,320         l,OOi       369    1,300                                            730       228      966       043         252      i.o76
AncIlabtIiIy                           1        ~         ~~~     ~ ~      ~~~ 70  65  75                      74           80       fi2        25                                            63        75       09        75          4o         64,
TreIgh Tret tan-l.a por ,,rnleeatle  rat  000  277                                                                                                     235       298      259       244         390        320~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23  29  25  24  35  32
02    STAFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                           60168                          695
Onot.en nO eepsnneee                                            ~~~~~               ~            ~~~~~~       ~~~~6 205  6,160  5,123    1,734    6,437  5.065    1,306    6,391  5,9       1,507    ,01      5,2715         ,0        ,5
TrafftearIt,  le-  enl e - Otal                     000                                   221                               80           92       209        95           06       235        96           39       vi,2     4+6        67          543        8s
3/ P            --egnnaa    Figerr  inclnde dining  me, aeelevi iens   nbnn-c  no  baggege van.-
Te--reS  pe- -rtl  1oitid            973 - Wiet-r  Tegioc 224; cne- rn legiOr 117.  T~, 1974. -l Onatne                gine 636, OE-t-e  Regie   306.
INlet,   Al, blank Ipeer rofl,n-  teeiabil ity of ole net6 tina   dta
Ma-h LVI75






TABLE 2
Page 1
bOLIVIA                                                                                    MFoat-ry Unit,  million
U8$1.00 - $b 20.00
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWOAY PROJECT
1975-1979 1nre-teent Plan
Total  apepdit-rc 1975-1979                          1975                                     1976                                     1777                                      1978                                      1979
L-an     Far.i"e          Total           Laoal   Foreign           Total          Local   Forei-g           Tto3l         Locl    Foredg            Total           Local    Foreign          Total           L-an      Foreign        T0tal
$b        .$        $i us$                 $b       us$        $b      us$         $b Us      $       $b       TOE$        $b        us$       i$b       10$         $b        US$       $b        US$         $b        us$        $b        us$
A. WAY ANDS WORKS
1. REHABILITATID.0 OF TRACK
1.1     W.od tiec                               33.00       --       33.00     1.650        3.42      --       3.12      0.171      9.68       --      9.68      M.A9        7.10       --       7.10    0.355        7.10        --       7.10    0.355         5.7o       --       5.70      0.285
1.8     Rai Ls, tr:k eaterials, t-rannti          --      4.190      03.80 2    .170         --     2.090     41.90      2.0o0       --      7.700    14.00      .770         --      0.50     10.00    0.500         --       0.50o     10.00    0.5002         --      o.oo        8.00     0.400o
1.3     Laiar                                    9.2E       --        9.2E     o.464        0.96      --       0.96      0.01$      2.72       --      2.72     0.136        2.00       -        2 .00    0.100       s.00        --       2.00    0.100         1.S.0      -1 .6o             0.080
1.4     Rail  ldiog                             20.8E       --       20.88     1.044        2.16      --       2.16      0.108      6.12       --      6.12     0.300       4.50        --       4.50    0.225        4.50        --       4.50    0.225        3.60        __       3.60      0.10
Snn- tl                             3.16     .10         757.      316-       037      2:55      07T3    27217        52725    0.700   732.52    -1.06207     13.00     27         23.60    1.100        35        7         23725    572         1E.9      0.100      10.9      0.915
Sb-totS .19 14.367    2 .9                                                                                                               IIT                  5   .0 77  i      r   SU 13. 0. RO  i3
1.0     Bali1otiog
1.5.1   Labir                                   50.90       --       50.90     2.545        4.03      --       4.03      0.201     23.35       --     23.35     1.167        8.40       --        9.40    o.L20        8.410      -_       8.o    O.120         6.72        --       6.72      0.336
1.5.2   Q.0017 egy qip-t                         1.00     ,0800      17.00     0.850         --       --        --         --       0.50    0.400      3.50        25         O        .0         9.0    0.425          -         _         _         _                                  
1.5.3  PFr-hace ai ballast ocra                   --      1.000      20.00     1.000-                            -                    -     0.0    10.00        0.-_-         --      0. 500    10.00    0,500         --         __        __        __
n-tota1.90                                      00      70          35 975                                                               72 o                   779     5:500       722    1.323         7o                      5    0.900       277!         71 _.72           877-7
2. BAINTERL5AiE OF TRACK
2.1     Wand ties                               44.30       --       44.30     2.215       11.10      --      11.10      o.595      5.98      __       5.08     0. 70        8.02       --       8.82    o.l41        9.48        __       9.48    0.474        0.92        --       9.92      0.446
2.2     Rails                                     --      5.o6o    101.20      5.o6o         --                 -- -5                                                                                                                        6--  --  2.530  5 0    2.530  --  2.530  5O060    2.530
2.3     Tra-k aad atber mahterials                --      4.700      94.00     4.700         --     o.es0     17.00     0.950        __     o.eSo    17.00      0.850         --      1.000     20.00    I.D0                   1.000     20.00    1.000         -_       1.000     20.00      1.000
Sb-tntal                           957         7 2     39.50 f   117                   7                                                                                                                                     r 1  E 00i7  75                    5      77
J.  TOOLS 00 EQrIPMinT F0R TRACK MAINTENANCE
3.1     Txls                                      --      0.210      4.20      0.210         --       --        --         --        --     0.210      1.20     0.210         --        __        __        __         __         __        __        __         __         __        __         __
3.2     Trak noro                                 --      0.330       6.60     0.330         --       --        --         --        --     0.330      6.60     0.330         --        --        --        --         --         --        _-        --          _         --        --         --
3.3     ballent t.aspiag  -eahi-s                 --      0.300       6.00     0.300         --       --        --         -_        --     0.150      3.00     0.190         -_      0.50o      3.00    0.15o         --         __        __        __          _         __        -_         __
3.4     Taak oar fNr chmioal weed killiag        --      0.030       o.6o     0.030         --       --        --         --        --      0.030     o.6o     0.030         __        __         ._       __         __         __        -_        __          __        __        __         __
3.5     Sparco far - hoeaical tools               --      0.150       3.00     0.150         --       __        __         -_        _      0.150      3.00     0.100         --        --        __        --         _          __        __        _          _          _         _          _
SRb-total1                                             20.10         707--                                                     370    17.10        0.9_70-                _ EMU     5725 __125 U1  _                   _  __ __ __ __ __
4. REINFORCEKENT OF ER00GES
4.1     Rana-etruotina of bridges                9.50     o.B9o      25.50     1.275        2.00      --        2.00     0.100      2.50    0.200      6.50     0.325        1.60     0.350       8.60    0.430        1.70     0.250      6.70    0.335         1.70       __        1.70     o.oa5
SRba-tnta1                        7          0.000     25.57      1.772                                                        57200    -725       0.37        1.60     0.0         7575    0       770                       670 0-                375
5. RECONSTRUCTION OF E0RT0 FILLS A00  OF
PROTECTION WORKS
5.1     We-tc  Ragion - Or-ro-Oonhbibaa
line                                  29.00     0.050     40.80      2.040       7.00    0.320      13.40     0.670       7.00    0.270    12.10      0.620      12.00        --      12.00    o.Ooo        3.00        __       3.00    0.150         _- --                --         --
5.2    WBoecr-  Ragiaa - Oilers sector-          4.50     0.380      12.10     0.605         --       --        --         --       1.50    0.090      2.50     O.19?        1.00     0,330       7.60    0.380       1.00        __       1.00    0.050         1.02       __        1.00     0.090
5.3     Eactcra RigIon - P-erto Pailas
(conip-ent cad laibr)                  6.oo     0.130      8.iO      0.430       1.80       --       1.80     0.090       1.20    0.130      3.90     0.170       1.00        --       0.00    0.050        1.00       __        1.00    0.050        1.00        __       1.00      0.090
5.4     Ratert- Region - Wideaitg of platfrr      --      0.300       6.oo     0.300         --       --        --         --        --      0.300     6.00     0.300         --        --         --       --          --        --         --       --          -_        --         --        --
S.5     Ragircdriag asd economia etadies -
Sob-total                                                                        5      7                  07             5        5    35                       25       7i 0                          7                     75    O 877    --      k                     5          --
6. BTILSIAGs
6.1    Caa.trnotiac of houKes for tr-ok
p.r,a.-.I - Wectora Regin-             3.00       --        3.00     0.150         --       --        --         --       3.00       -_      3.00     0.150         --        --         --       --          --        --         --       --          --        --         --        --
6.2     Con-troatian of hR.se. for track
parcoa-n1 - Viahna-Chara-Sa lice       1.30                 13 1.30  ..065                                                                                                                                                                             1.30        _        1.30     0.065
loin-total                         ~733                         5 230.0                                                                  3.O      0.190        -          --        --        --         --         --        --       --        -3          or 1.30    0572






oc        00~H       FFFFFFFFFF0                                               '            ~~<<
00-o000  .0                   msr0sH 40  40000-000000                                4-0                    04'        0
000-0            04.             00 0           40400000-004.                      000 >00.OOo.O00
0-0.oocoo           00        0000000000-0-m              -0.0-0.4- c                0      00r9            0000000
400'000  0          0         0-0000000000404040                 00 0                00<N  Z               4-0g0   Cg
= 000                       Ooooo                                                                                  40oS     wnw 
00                      r e                            o              . 0'                  ot O       flO
H~~~~~~4                    W:0   00                D                              =00==.   0WW:0s 
00    00                 00S0S0S0w                         <00                00.00                      9X
?S ~   ~    ~      0 00 0 0a0 ?9-  0:   0.                                                               0-       tWtWkWK9           
00  00 0000  00 000  00 00 9     0 40 0  
s ~     ~       ~        00 0 0 0  0o ooo                0000oo o H o   W  o orl 0                         0  
00 S0    840                 00         0 0 0 000    00                          040                  0    040- oI    o-8goz    Sto So    
-o                                   Wr                                       o.  .  9 iw-u >F F -  - o  . L e    -  utevo
.-oOoo 800-0-8  0000.-000oSo                               00         oB0          000                  000000000  o 
, 1-00 :.W0-0'Sl             OU.0  0..........0...........000000 0    00           000                 0.0    00 00 0           H00 I A/T8r
l~ ~ ~~4.                                   l04                 I                  olov
000     00                      00                     00o             00 0P                                   00oo o00
. O i~~~40                                     0I             00             44               0       0000         000    nln     obIII        
o ct   om   o ooo                 oo             oo                               o       oooo    001  00- 
w     ttn   J2|[9OM             SS            00          I0       0           0!                      00
0.             o                                        00           00 88         000                           
wo     F              @|@S                                       > ~~~~~~                    F|,,,FFF' c|R 40
8-000000                      0         0    00   0000        00> 00                j                  0
000000'0                      '|'''''''' 000-000                      00.,, C
0000 00                       0         00         0000,FF            ~9F           ,        ~ 01  00. . . ................ F I  00
0100000000                    00        00   0o 000           00      00                               00...................
000000000                     21    o0   0    00000    00             000               00.           .............. 000   00
0000                          04       00  00           , 000  0      00                00             00
MIFO_                        Fl,0_9F    ,                                         lF                   1                     l
0010000000                   81        0    0    0000    00    0o-               00~ Il 000c0|
glO O O > O O   '   0    0   '.E O o o    o       s D         Wl0'    01          0010                     I
I |I  |I II  o|00               000    0000=
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  001
0,FFF>,, 0-| 0|F 00  00                                                09 
'''' ~ ~~~~0                  0000000                                    *I  '--o            0444444
I                           01        00      0000                              o       00           0010               0
0         00    oo00w0                              oI      o           o4oc    1
1440444                         ''||             ''''o                           4lg                 'I''
44 4 4                       *oj'      '0 4 4 44 4 0 'Sv8                                               I'''o         
[ | | | | X | I |o |~~~~~~~~~~~~
044044s                               00, F |, , |                                                                      00lc
-o   0      04 4 4 4 4 4                           404                  40 04 4             00






71252 2
$4  70$       19          7799          ~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                     ~~~11912  411 -  772   719$  77,       L,10          $4          77           $,          9$$m722                                                    2               9        17$                        9
99.1    717211 ~~~19~~S717  19912799    -  00519992771721 ~~~~1.00        .160        14.97        9.75         9.9          1.9 91.9                 934           4.49        0.7            .5 .39                  09 -,40.9                            9.
91.47991997999  199199, 099199          17.99         0.209        4.4.        9.719         9.14        9.1077        9.197.197                0.11         0.100        9.11        9.191           -          -6.1.1 1.111  1 ~11  N
99.9     799979.      9                       99991919                           .9          009           19 0--11' 3. L           7.9 4         .00          .0         0.019 91 .1               007          799          9.04-                                                                                          6 . 
17.90  1942999,1                                   11.15          1.990       99,95~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  7-57  0.7 267 9.7 00.374.I          17'4l.,                0.,583      3517.9        '7.107      41.59        4.1.       74.3          19.0954122                    613          3  .                            ,44054
77.5091  7999   99-9, 91,9.                                         -.            0 17        1.00         0.120        3-.           0100        0.00         9907            ,          . l        _.07          -5             2                     7.5
19.5    7991941997 9992911792 97219                      .15              7I70      463.97         0.0009       6.4           I, 177      9.77         0.930          .            .           .Z4                                                           1-                                                                    3.U           .           U.974
03.9    019199        .  0999199 9799,,]                    ~~112 00     121 999499.7              0.6704    -~  .           0.000        110          970           .9                      1.710        0-1.30-7344                                                       7. 4         25.           1-~                          3~      ~     62      ~        ~      0 
7317940919991,704                                                                    007           .2          7.--.                    010              0        0.7            90           .          100          05
105 999 9                        .19999711.7                                                       ,0         000            .           .07         09            .7 






TABLE 3
BOLIVIA                                            Page 1
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT 1975-1976
Investments to be Committed in 1975-1976
$b Million                         US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign    Total
1. REHABILITATION OF TRACK
Wood ties                             13.10         -        13.10        0.655        -          0.655
Rails, track material, turnouts        -         55.80       55.80         -          2.790       2.790
Labor                                 3.68         -          3.68        0.184        -          0.184
Rail welding                          8.28         -          8.28        0.414        -          0.414
Ballasting
Labor                            27.38        -         27.38        1.369        -          1.369
Quary equipment                  0.50        8.00        8.50        0.025       0.400       0.425
Ballast cars                      _         10.00       10.00         -          0.500       0.500
Sub-total                   52.94       73.80      126.74        2.647       3.690       6.337
2. MAINTENANCE OF TRACK
Wood ties                             17.08         -        17.08        0.854        -          0.854
Rails                                  _           _           _           _
Track materials and others             -         34.00       34.oo         -          1.700       1.700
Sub-total                   17.08       34.oo       51.08        0.854       1.700       2.554
3 * TOOLS, EQUIPlMENTS FOR TRACK
MAINTENANCE
Toola                                  -          4.20        4.20         -          0.210       0.210
Track cars                             -          6.60        6.60         -          0.330       0.330
Ballast tamping machines               -          3.00        3.00         -          0.150       0.150
Tank car for chemical weed
destruction                          -          o.60       o06o          -          0.030       0.030
Spares for machine tools               -          3.00        3.00         -          0.150       0.150
Sub-total                     -         17.4o       17.40         -          0.870       0.870
4. RECONSTRUCTION OF BRIDGES              4.50        4.00        8.50        0.225       0.200       o.425
5. RECONSTRUCTION OF EARTH FILLS,ETC.
Oruro-Cochabamba                     14.00       11.80       25.80        0.700       o.590       1.290
Other sectors                         1.50        1.00        2.50        0.075       0.050       0.125
Puerto Pailas                          3.00       2.60        5.60        0.150       0.130       0.280
Widening of platforms                             6.oo        6.oo         -          0.300       0.300
Sub-total                   18.50       21.40       39.90        0.925       1.070       1.995
6. CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES                 3.00         -          3.00        0.150        -          0.150
7. TELECOMMUNICATIONS                     3.89       20.20       24.09        0.194       1.01        1.204
8. OPERATIONS
Sidings                                0.32         -         0.32        0.016        -          0.016
Purchase of scales                      -         0.90        0.90         -          0.045       0.045
Purchase of handling equipment          -         3.20        3.20         -          0.160       0.160
Sub-total                     0.32       4.10        4.42        0.016       0.205       0.221
9. CONCENTRATION, MODERNIZATION OF
WORKSHOPS
Viacha                                1.00       16.00       17.00        0.05        0.800       0.850
Uyuni                                 1.00        3.60        4.60        0.05        0.180       0.230
Robore                                  -         1.20        1.20         -          o.o60 o.o60
Oruro                                 1.00        1.20        2.20        0.05        0.060       0.110
Guaracachi                            3.00        7.00       10.00        0.15        0.350       0.500
Sub-total                    6.oo       29.00       35.oo        0.30        1.450       1.750



TABLE3
Page 2
$b Million                         US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total        Local     Foreign       Total
10. REHABILITATION OF ROLLING STOCK
Cars                                   7.20        5.o6        2.80        0.360       0.253       0.14!0
Ferrobuses                             0.38        5.40        5.78        0.019       0.270        0.289
Passenger cars                         1.07        1.80        2.87        o.o53        0.090       0.143
Locomotives                            1.80       22.80       24.60        0.090       1.140        1.230
Sub-total                    10.45       35.06       45.51        0.522       1.753       2.275
11.  BASIC STOCK OF SPARE PARTS
Locomotives - line                      -         11.00       11.00         -          0.550        0.550
Locomotives - shunting                  -          1.00        1.00         -          0.050        0.050
Ferrobuses                              -         12.00        2.00         -          0.100       0.100
Cars                                    -          1.60        1.60         -          o.o80       0.080
Wagons                                 0-40                    0.40          _         0.020        0.020
Sub-total                      -         16.00       16.00         -          0.800       0.800
12. NEW EQUIPMENT
Freight cars                            -        150.00      150.00         -          7.500        7.500
Passenger cars                          -           -           -           -           -            -
Sleepers                                -          3.80        3.80         -          0.190       0.190
Diners                                  -          1.90        1.90         -          o.o95       o.o95
Luggage                                 -          2.40        2.40         -          0.120        0.120
Line Locomotives                        -         60.00       60.oo         -          3.00        3.00
Shunting locomotives                    -           -           -           -           -            -
Ferrobuses                              -         10.80       10.80         -          0.540       0.540
Cabooses                                -                       - _                      -  
Sub-total                      -        228.90      228.90         -         11.445      11.445
13. SPARE PARTS FOR NEW EQUIPMENT
Freight cars                            -          5.00        5.00         -          0.250       0.250
Passenger wagons                        -          0.48        0.48         -          0.024        0.024
Line locomotives                        -          6.00        6.oo         -          0.300        0.300
Shunting locomotives                    -           -           -           -             
Ferrobuses                              -          1.08        1.08         -          0.054        0.054
Cabooses                                -          _            _
Sub-total                      -         12.56       12.56                    0.628       0.628
14. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    2.33       14.00       16.33        0.116       0.700       0.816
BASE COST ESTIMATE                   119.01      510.36      629.43        5.949      25.518      31.470
Physical contingencies                10.12        7.46       17.22        0.506       0.368       0.874
129.13      517.72      646.65        6.455      25.886      32.344
Financial contingencies               50.87      122.28      173.35        2.545       6.114       8.656
GRAND TOTALS                180.00      640.oo      820.00        9.000      32.000      41.000
Source: ENFE and Mission Estimate
February 1975



B O L I V IA                                                                                                               TABLE 4
APPBAISAL OF A SECOND BAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic - Actual for 1973  -  Forecast for 1975-1980    V/
1973                          1975                         1976                          1977                            1978                           1979                           1980
Toss      T-ku     A. H.    Tons       T-km    A. H.        Tons      T-klo   A. H.      Tons      T-ku      A. H.      Tons       T-lm    A. H.       Tons       T-km      A. H.      Tons      T-klo    A. H.
(000)     (106)    (kh)    (000)         (106)   (kh)       (000)      (10)   (km)       (0i00)     (106)    (km)       (000)      (1065   (kl)       (000)       (106)    (km)       (000)       (106)   (km)
Veatern System
Industrial Products
Minerals                       190.8      53.1       281    195.8       56.7      290      198.3      17.5    290        201.0      58.3      290       203.5       59.0    290       206.2       59.8      290       209.0       60.6      290
Iros & Steel for Cos.tr.        36.4      11.7       321      40.2      13.1      327       42.3      14.8    330        44.4       14.8      333        46.6       15.7    337        48.9       16.6      340        51.4       17.7      344
Petroleui  products             55.0      15.7       285      73.6      21.3      290       78.3      22.7    290        83.3       24.2      290        88.6       26.1    295        94.3       28.3      300       100.3       30.1      300
Cemsent                         14.7       5.8       395      16.0       6.3      394       17.7       7.1    401         19.5       7.9     405         21.3        8.8    413        23.2        9.7      418        25.1       10.6      422
Wood                            22.3       6.9       310      23.7       7.3      310       24.4       7.6    310         25.1       7.8      310        25.9        8.0    310        26.6        8.2      310         27.4      865       310
Cheiical products               32.3       7.9       241      46.5      11.9      257       55.8      14.8    265         67.0      19.1      270        73.7       20.7    281        81.0       23.5      290        99.2       26.8      300
Lime and Gypsu                  22.1       3.9       176      24.4       4.6      190       25.6       5.0    197         26.9       5.5      204        28.2        6.0    212        29.6        6.5      221        31.1        7.2      231
Sub Total                373.6    104.9        281    420.2    121.2        288      442.4    129.5    293         467.2    136.6       292       487.9      144.3    296       509.8      152.6      299        533.5    161.5       303
Agricultural Products
Sugar                           48.5      31.6       652      52.6      34.3      652       52,6      34.3    652        52.6      34.3      652         52.6       34.3    652        52.6       34.3      652        52.6       34.3      652
Flour                           94.7      36.2       382    115.9       43.3      374      115.9      43.3    374        115.9     43.3       374       115.9       43.3    374       115.9       43.3      374       115.9       43.3      374
Wheat                           37.9      16.7       441      51.7      29.6      573       51.7      29.6    573         51.7      29.6      573        51.7       29.6    573        51.7       29.6      573         51.7      29.6      573
Sub Total                181.1      84,5       467    220.2    107.2        487      220.2    107.2    487         220.2    107.2       487       220.2      107.2    487       220.2      107.2      487        220.2    107.2       487
Other Products                     155.3      52.5       338    141.9       53.2      375      135.7      53.7    396        129.7      54.1      417       124.0       54.4    439       118.6       54.9       463       113.3      55.3      488
Total Western System           710.0    241.9        341    782.3    281.6        360      798.3    290.4    364        817.1    297.9        365       832.0      305.9    368       848.6      314.7      371       867.0    324.0        374
Eastern System
Industrial Products
Iroa  end Steel for Constr.   10.2         6.0       590      12.3       7.3      592       13.6       8.1    594         14.9       8.9      595        16.4        9.7    597        18.1       10.8      596         19.9      11.9      600
Wood                            60.1      29.5       490      68.5      35.3      515       73.1      37.6    515         78.1      40.2      515        83.3       42.9    515        89.0       45.8      515         95.0      48.9      515
Coustr. Materials               14.9       7.8       520      18.0       9.4      520       19.9      10.3    520         21.8      11.3      520        24.0       12.5    520        26.4       13.7      520         29.0      15.1      520
Sub Total                 85.2      43.3       508      98.8      52.0      526      106.5      56.0    526        114.8      60.4      526       123.7       65.1    526       133.5        70.3      527       143.9      75.9      527
Agricultoral Products
Sugar                            0.7       0.3       429      11.4       6.1      539       20.4      11,0    539        28.3       15.2     539         35.4       19.1    539        57.1       30.8      539         70.8      38.2      539
Flour                           10.3       5.4       521      20.2      10.6      525       20.2      10.6    525         20.2      10.6      525        20.2       10.6    525        20.2       10.6      525         20.2      10.6      525
Cattle                          10.5       4.0       381      10.8       4.5      417       11.2       4.7    420         11.5       5.0      435        11.7        5.2    444        11.9        5.4      454         11.9       5.5      462
Cotton                          32.6      20.3       623      35.9      22.4      623       37.7      23.5    623         39.6      24.6      623        41.6       25.9    623        43.6       27.1      623        45.9       28.6      623
Sub Total                 54.1      30.0       555      78.3      43.6      557       89.5      49.8    556         99.6      55.4      556       108.9       60.8    558       132.8        73.9      556       148.8      82.9      557
Other Products                      80.8      41.7       516      90.8      47.2      520       96.2      50.2    522        102.0      53.4      524       108.1        56.9    526      114.6        60.4      527       121.5      64.4      530
Total Easters System           220.1    115.0        522    267.9    142.8        533      292.2    156.0    534         316.4    169.2       535       340.7      182.8    537       380.9      204.6      537       414.2    223.2        539
Grand Total Beth Systems           930.1    356.9        384  1,050.2    424.4        404   1,090.5    446.4    409    1,133.5    467.1           412    1,172.7       488.7    417   1,227.5         519.3      423    1,281.2    547.2        427
1/ DSes not include parcels and the Guaqui - La Paz railroad traffic
Source:  ENFE  and Mission Estimate
February 1975






B O L I V I A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic. Actual for 1970-1973 and Projections for 1977-1980
T R A I N S                                             AUTOCARRILES                     RAIL CARS                        T 0 T A L
First Class                    Second Class                  T o t a 1
Pass.   Pass.km.   Av.Trip  Pass.   Pass.km.   Av.Trip  Pass.   Pass.km.   Av.Trip  Pass.   Pass.km.   Av.Trip  Pass.   Pass.km.   Av.Trip  Pass.   Pass.km.   Av.Trip
(000)   (million)    (km.)   (000)   (million)    (km.)   (000)    (million)    (km.)   (000)   (million)    (km.)   (000)    (million)   (km.)   (000)   (million)    (km.)
'estern Region
1970           79         15        193       642       100         156       721        115       160       75          5         69       206        90        437      1,002       210        210
1971           83         27        325       601       113         187       684        140       204       66          5         81       164        65        397         914      210        230
1972           81         29        358       586       100         171       667        129       193       58          4         69       162        61        377        887       194        219
1973           86         32        376       649       112         173       735        144       197       50          4         83        84        34        403         869      182        210
1975          124         38        320       690       117         170       814        155       190       -           -         -        120        50        416         934      205      1,219
1976          124         42        339       711       119         168      835         161       193       -           -         -        133        57        430         968      218        225
1977          138         53        384       733       121         165      871         174       200       -           -         -        133        57        430      1,004       231        230
1978          123         47        382       747       125         167       870        172       198       -           -         -        151        65        430      1,021       237        232
1979          118         45        381       761       128         168       879        173       198       -           -         -        163        70        430      1,024       243        233
1980          118         45        381       776       132         170      894         177       198       -           -         -        170        73        430      1,064       250        235
astern Region
1970           22          5        245       159         34        215       181         39       218        9          3        382        38        16        415         228       58        258
1971           14          5        357       162        34         211       176         39       222        6          2        385        41        18        435         223      :59        265
1972           20          9        450       191        43        225        211         52       246        6          2        368        26        12        479         243       66        272
1973           44         19        442       215        57         267       259         76       296       -           -         -         21        11        506         280       87        312
1975           43         19        442       229        59         265       272         78       287       -           -         -         33        16        485         305       94        308
1976           42         18        429       242         63        266       284         81       285       -           -         -         45        22        489         329      103        313
1977           40         18        450       257         67        261       297         85       286       -           -         -         58        30        517         355      115        324
1978           41         18        439       269        70         262       310         88       284       -           -         -         62        32        516         372      120        323
1979           43         19        442       277         72       260        320         91       284       -           -         -        -66        34        515         354      125        353
1980           45         20        450       286         76        265       331         96       290       -           -         -         69        36         521        400      132        330
SourCe:  ENFE and Mission Eat.mte
February 1975






BOLIVIA
TABLE 6
SEC0OND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Costs With end Without the I-oeto...nt Plan
1971     1976      1977     0978      1979      1980      1911     0982      1983      1984     1985      1086     1987      1988      8989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999     2009
COETS WITE THE PLAN
Cl. Opertion 1975-1980                        363.8      338.5    364.1    363.2    364.0    368.0    366.0    369.0    3h68.0    360.0    368.0    368.0    368.0    368.0    360.0    368.0    368,0    368.0    368.    368.0    368.0    368.0    368.8    368.0   368.9    368.0
CO. Dopree. of Existing Eq.ip-st                22.5      02.5    32,5        22.5     22.3      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0      43.0     45.0      40.0      40.0     45.0      40.0      45.0     43.0      45.0      4B.B      45.0     45.0      45.B      45.8      45.8      45.B      45.0
03. lost of lovestnet Plan                    333.8      318.4    342.0    362.4    117.4        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -
04. Cost of AdditIonal Fteisht
(1980-2000)t  3.                                                                                      .3     10.7      16.2     21.9      27.7      33.7     39.8      46.0      52.0     59.2      63.9      72.7      79.9      82.2     94.7    193.9    810.2    118.2    126.5    034.6
C..Cot of AdditonlPon_egee
(1 980-20003                                                                                          0.5      0.9       1.4       1.9       2.6      3.1       3.6      4,2       4.7       5.3       5.9      6.4       7.2       7.7       8.3      9.0       9.6      00.1      10.9      11.7
Total lost With Plan                     720.1     691.4    728.6    748.1    503.9    413.0   418.8   424.6    430.6   436.8   443.3   449.8    456.4   463.2   470.0    477.5    484.7    492.1    500.1    502.9    516.0    525.9    522.8    541.3   550.4    589.3
COSPS WITHO00T TOE PLAN (BENEFITS)
11. Opertion ,ithont plan 1975-80              339,4     339.7    339.4    338.5   036.1    335.8    335.8    330.8    335.1    335.0    330.8   335.0    335.6    335.6    335.8    335.8    335.8    330.8    335.8    335.8    335.8    335.8    335.8   335.8    335.8    355.8
12. Dep-c. of Eninting Equipn-nt                31.5      31.5      30.5      31.5      31.5     30.5      31.5     31.5      31.5      31.0      30.3     31.5      31.3      31.5     31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5     31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5     30.5      31.5      21.5
83. Bighuias Coat of Nov01 Rail
Freight West                              24.9      45.5      71.8      96.0    110.7    126.1    110.1    122.1    126.7    031.3    130.0    024.8    128.9    133.6    137.7    142.4    028.6    032.9    137.0    040.6    145.7    152.4    154.9    159.5    164,2    168.8
B4. Bighoay Cost of M-oing Roil Peon
West                                       3.6        6.4      9.4      01.1      12.8     04.7      03.2      13.2     03.2      03.2      13.2     13.2      03.2      13.2     13.2      03.2      13.2      13.2     13.2      13.2      13.2      13.2      15.2     03.2      13.2      13.2
85. High-oy Cost of P,eight last                28.4      52.9      78.6      91.1    118.6    043.1    034.1   040.2    146.4    033.5    059.6    148.0    154.4    160.7    167.8    J74.1   158.5    065.3    070.5    178.4    185.2    192.8    199.6    287.2    205.4    223.6
86. Oigh-sy Cost of Pas.-  East                  3.2        5.7      1.2      10.2      02.1     14.4      13.6     14.1      04.7      13.4      16.1     14.9      05.4     06.0      16.6      17.1      15.7     16.2      16.9      17.4      18.1      18.6     19.3      09.8      50.5      21.2
87. Cost of Deloy                               30.6      30.6      50.6      30.6     30.6      30.6      30.6     30.6      30.6      30.6      30.6     -         -         -          -       -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -
88. Roe Paid Rood Use-  Chergee                  1.5        8.3     12.2      16,0     19.5      22.8      23.7     24.6      20.6      26.7      27.7     20.1      29.9     31.0      32 .1     33.3      34.5     35.0      37.0      58.4      39.8      41.2     42.7      44.3      45.9      47.6
Totol Coets Without the Plan
(Benefits)                            466.1     520.6    573.7    624.6    670.9    709.0    700.6    702.1    724.5    738.0    700.5    697.2    709.1    721.8    734.7    747.5    718.6    730.7    742.9    756.3    769.3    785.5    797.0    801.3    826.5    941.7
Net Banfits  of the Plan               -204.0    -370.8  -154.9   -023.5    160.0    356.0    281.0    287.5    253.9    301.0    307.2    247.4    252.7    251.6    264.6   220.0    233.3    238.6    242.9    248.5    253.2    259.6    264.2    269.9    276.1    282.4
leorce, MisBier Estieate
Febs-nry 1975






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT.                                                                                     TABLE 7
Income Proiections 1975-1979 (Wqest and East Lines)
(with actuals 1971-1973 and tentative figures 1974 for conmparison)
($b million)
1968     1969       1970       1971        1972     1973      197t4 i/            1975               1976                  1977      \          1978                  1979
B-'      A-/       B 21       A 3/       BY A/       /        B /        A  /       B2        A 3
OPerating Revenues
Passenger                                            24.1       25.1       26.9      27.7        29.1      30.2       42.E      49.6      49.6      53.3       53.3       58.6       58.6      61.0       61.0       62.7       62.7
Freight                                              95.2      113.2      103.1      104.5       118.6    150.0      231.0      242.5    412.0    255.4       432.7      266.7      450.8     279.7      471.6      295.2      493.6
Miscellaneous                                          6.6       9.4        8.9       6.9         12.3     13.8       14.9       13.5      14.0      14.0      14.8       14.8       15.7       19.2      16.5        16.0       17.0
Total Operating Revenues                      125.9      147.7     138.9      139.1       160.0    194.0       288.5     305.6    475.6    322.7        500.8     340.1      525.1      355.9      549.1      373.9      573.3
Operating Costs (under new accounting system)
Administration and general                                                                                            52.S                 56.8                57.9                  58.2                  59.5                  62.0
Maint. roadway telecommunication & signals                                                                            85.1                 91.1                93.2                  96.6                  98.7                 103.1
Maint. of equipment                                                                                                   49,5                 56.5                58.1                  59.6                  60.1                  63.8
Traffic and coemmercial                                                                                               f2,1                  9.7                71.8                  73.4                 74.3                  76.5
Traction                                                                                                              38.8                 70.0                80.3                  84.1                 84.2                  83.8
Miscellati ous                                                                                                        16.1                 17.1                18.0                  15.3                  12.0                  11.5
Loss on subsidized food                                                                                               43A3                 43.7                44.4                  45.6                 46.7                   47.7
Total Working Costs                           136.9      138.7     142.5      162.6       179.8    23G.0       349.5               404.9                423.7                432.8                 435.5                 448.4
Depreciation                                          0.5        5.8        7.5        7.0        31.5     40.4       40.4                 51.8                54.1                  66.2                  80.0                  91.8
Total Operating Costs                         137.4      144.5      150.0     169.6       211.3    276.4       389.9               456.7                477.8                499.0                 515.5                 540.2
Net operating revenue (loss)                        (11.5)       3.2      (11.1)    (30.5)       (51.3)   (82.4)   (101.4)                 18.9                23.0                  26.1                  33.6                  33.1
Non-operating receipts                                4.2        7.4        5.2        3.9 )           )               0.2                  0.1                 0.1                   0.1                   0.1                   0.1
Non-operating expenses                                3.9        4.0        8.6        4.8 )       1.2 )    1.4        0.1                  0.2                 0.2                   0.2                   0.2                   0.2
Net revenue (loss) before interest                  (11.2)       6.6      (14.5)    (31.4)       (50.1)   (83,0)   (101.3)                 18.8                22.9                  26.0                  33.5                  33.0
Loan interest                                         3.6        6.8        6.1        5.5         5.9       6.2       5.3                 15.4                18.2                  35.2                  73.8                 101.0
Net revenue (loss)                                  (14.8)      (0.2)    (20.6)    (36.9)        (56.0)   (85.2)    (55.0)                  3.4                 4.7                  (9.2)                (40.3)                (68.0)
Ratios
Working ratio 7.                                       109        93        103        117         112       12'        Zl                  85                   85                  82                     79                    78
operating ratio %                                                                                  132       142       -.35                  96                  95                   95                     94                    94
Time interest earned                                                                                                                        1.2                 1.2                  0.7                    0.5                   0.3
Debt service coverage                                                                                                   -                   1.7                 1.7                  1.6                    1.2                   1.1
Return on net fixed assets                                                                                              -                    -                  1.9                  1.7                    1.8                   1.5
Op.rating costs under old accountinR system
Labor                                                89.2       99.7      101.3      109.9       118.1    147.7    19;,6                  215.6               220.8                 227.2                 233.3                 245.9
Fuel and lubricant                                    18,0      14.5       15.0       19.5        19.7      19.9     27.2                  50.0                60.0                  61.5                  59.0                  56.1
Materials                                             14.7      13.6       15.8       14.6        14.6      15.3     28 4                  35.9                37.5                  38.8                  39.0                  41.2
Contractors                                           2.0        1.5        2.1        2.6         1.4       3.1      8.9                   9.7                 9.8                   9.9                  10.0                  10.2
Freight car rental (net)                               5.3       4.9        5.0        5.8         9.5       7.6     24,0                  25.0                25.7                  23.8                  21.0                  20.0
Loss on subsidized food                                7.7 )     4.5 )      3.3)       4.6        16.5)    16.6      43,3                  43.7                44.4                  45.6                  46.7                  47.7
Miscellaneons                                        -                 ) -             5.8            )    25.8      23.1                  25.0                25.5                  26.0                  26.5                  27.3
Total                                         136.9      138.7      142.5     162.6       179.8    236.0    349.5                  404.9                423.7                 432.8                435.5                 448.4
R Pevenues are 12 months actual; Expenses are 10 months actual and 2 months forecast
2/ Revenues before tariff increase
3/ Rtevenues after tariff increase in January 1975
Source: ENFE and mission estissates






TABLE 8
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheets (West and East Lines)
as dE December 31. 1970-1973 Actual:  1974 Tentative: 1975-1979 Forecast
(in $b million)
1970         1971          1972           1973           1974            1975           1976           1977            1978           1979
------------ (Actual) --------------
(Tentative)       ----------------------- (Forecast) ------__________________
ASSETS
1.   Fixed Assets - Gross                         764        543             619            621            932          2,451           2,664          3,095           3,527          3,896
Less accumulated depreciation               (17)        (24)            (56)           (96)          (136)        (1.308)        (1.362)         (1.428)        (1508)         (1.600)
Net Fixed Assets                      747         519            563            525            796          1,143           1,302          1,667           2,019          2,296
Work in progress                             -           -                6              7              6              3               3              3               3              3
2.   Current Assets:
Cash                                    4           4             11             11             11              14             30             30              30             30
Sundry debtors                         64          65            101            122            143             100             80             80              70              60
Stores - Railway                       52          39             42             44             39              35             35             50              45             30
- Pulperia                     17           6              6               3              5              6               6              6               5              5
Total                                 137         114            160            180            198             155            151            166             150             125
3.   Suspense                                      -           19             34             29             11               -             -              -               -               -
4.   Cargos Diferidos                              19           5             -              -               -               -
Total Assets                          903         657            763            741          1,011           1,301          1,456          1,836           2,172          2,424
LIABILITIES
1.   Current liabilities:
Conmercial                             38          40             78             95            115              90             73              65             57              55
Social                                 30          32             25             19             22              20             18             16              14              12
Total                                  68          72            103            114            137             110             91             81              71              67
2.   Long Term Debt                               115         80             112             96            228             214            320            692           1,059          1,382
3.   Reserves - Social                              6          11             16             15             15              15             15              15             15              15
- Assets Revaluation                -           -              14             14            138            489             489            489            489             489
4.   Equity                                       666         480            551            571            676             738            845            919             984          1,030
Less accumtlated deficits                    -           -             (56)           (91)          (193)          (265)           (304)          (360)           (446)          (559)
5.   Suspense                                       -           5             23             22             10               -              -               -              -
6.   Abonos Diferidos                              48           9              -               -              -              -
Total Liabilities                     903         657            763            741          1,011          1,301           1,456          1,836           2,172          2,424
RATIOS
Current Assets/Current liabilities         2.01        1.58           1.55            1.58           1.45           1.41           1.66            2.05           2.11            1.89
Current Assets less Inventory/
Current Liabilities                      1.0         0.96           1.09           1.17            1.12           1.04           1.21            1.36           1.41            1.34
Debt/Equity                               15/85       14/86          18/82          16/84           27/73          18/82          24/76           40/60          50/50           59/41
Note: 1975-1979 figures include estimated revaluation of fixed assets
Source: ENFE and mission estimates
May 1975






TABLE 9
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Cash Flow - 1970 to 1973 Actual: 1974 Tentative: 1975-1979 Projected
(in $b million)
Total
1970       1971       1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978         1979          1975-1979
-----------Actuals--------------)    (Tentative)   -----------               Forecasts---------------------
Funds Required
A.  Investment - Local                    2.8         1.1        0.5         2.0        35.0         42.0        86.9        53.5        42.5        34.2             259.1
- Foreign                  -           -        5.1         16.5      151.9           6.2      126.0       392.5        388.7      334.8           1.248.2
- Total                   2.8         1.1       5.6        18.5       186.9         48.2       212.9       446.0       431.2        369.0          1.507.3
B.  Debt Service - Interest               6.1         5.5        4.6         6.2         5.3         15.4        18.2        35.2        73.8       101.0             243.6
- Repayment           21.0        15.1       19.5        20.3        20.0         20.0        33.6        23.4         21.8        11.8            110.6
- Total               27.1        20.6       24.1        26.5        25.3         35.4        51.8        58.6        95.6       112.8             354.2
C. Increase/(decrease) in
working capital,
excluding cash                     (18.1)      (11.4)    (16.2)        9.0        (5.0)       (19.0)        (1.0)       25.0        (6.0)      (21.0)           (22.0)
D. Retirement benefits                     -           -         -           6.7         7.4         10.0         5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0              30.0
Total Funds Required                 11.8       10.3       13.5        60.7       214.6          74.6      268.7       534.6       525.8       465.8           1.869.5
Funds Available
From Railways:
- Cash generated from
operation (deficits)           (3.6)      (23.5)    (19.8)       (42.0)      (61.0)        70.7        77.1        92.3       113.6       124.9             478.6
- Net non-operating
revenue (loss)                 (3.4)       (0.9)       1.2         1.4         0.1         (0.1)       (0.1)       (0.1)       (0.1)        (0.1)            (0.5)
- Total                           (7.0)      (24.4)    (18.6)       (40.6)      (59.9)        70.6        77.0        92.2       113.5       124.8             478.1
Borrowing - IBRD proposed loan                                                       -           2.0       116.0       392.5          5.0          -             515.5
- IDA Credit                                                           146.0           4.0        10,0         -            -           -               14.0
- Other                                                                                 -           -          -378.7                334.8            713.5
- Total                                                                146.0           6.0       126.0       392.5       383.7       334.8          1,243.0
Government contribution             18.8        34.7       26.5        84.8       122.6            -        82.2         49.9        28.6         6.2            166.9
TJNDB grant                            -           -         5.6       16.5          5.9          0.2          -           -           -           -                0.2
Total Funds Available               11.8        10.3       13.5        60.7       214.6          76.8       285.2      534.6        525.8       465.8          1,888.2
Cash at beginning of year                                                    11.3        11.3         11.3        13.5        30.0        30.0        30.0             114.8
Cash at end of year                                                          11.3        11.3         13.5        30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0             133.5
Increase/(decrease) in cash                                                                -           2.2        16.5          -           -           -               18.7
Note 1:  Figures for 1975-1979 are in 1974 constant dollars
2:  Foreign exchange rate between 1970 and 1972 was $b 12.00 = US$1.00;
from 1973 it changed to $b 20.00 = US$1.00
So'urce: ENFE and mission estimates
May 1975






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
International Financing in the Transport Sector
Railroads
Japan     1966 $10 million    purchase of rolling stock
Germany   1966 $1.1 million   purchase of rolling stock
IDA       1972 $8 million      miscellaneous parts, tools,
rolling stock
Brazil    1974 Cr$10 million  study of Santa Cruz-Cochabamba
connection
Pipelines
IBRD      1971 $23.25 million Gas pipeline
New York
State
common
Retirement
Fund           $14 million    Gas pipeline
IDB            $19 million    Gas Pipeline
Gulf           $1.4 million   Gas Pipeline
Highways
(i)  1DB            $.530 million  feasibility study - Oruro-Cochabamba
$1.70 million  feasibility study - La Paz-Puerto
Salinas
$0.92 million  feasibility study - New Santa Cruz-
Cochabamba road
$35 million    construction - 105 km of Oruro-
Cochabamba
$14.7 million  construction - La Paz-El Alto
$10 million    construction - 8 small roads



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(ii) USAID           $51.2 million  construction - Cochabamba to
Puerto Patino and Villa Tunari to
Puerto Villarroel
$2.4 million   construction - Bridge at Yapacani
$1.5 million   construction - Paving -
Cochabamba-Santa Cruz
$10.7 million  construction - El Alto-Oruro
$7.2 million   construction - Guabira-Puerto Banegas
and Yapacani-Chane
$2.7 million   construction - Caranavi-Alto Beni
$57.6 million  miscellaneous projects
(iii)  Brazil          $17 million    road building and maintenance
equipment
N.A.            feasibility and final engineering
Santa Cruz-Corumba road
April 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Highway Plan - Principal Projects for the Primary Road System
The most significant expected changes in the primary road system
are the following:
(i) East-West Axis connecting the ports of Arica (Pacific)
and Santos (Atlantic)
-    Arica-Tambo Quemado (Chile).  There is a good gravel road on
most of the distance, which turns into an esrth road close to
the border.
-    Tambo Quemado-Patacamayo (Bolivia).  Final engineering is being
done with CAF financing (CAF: Corporacion Andina de Fomento).
A gravel road is expected to be in traffic by the end of the
decade.
-    Patacamayo-Oruro.  Existing paved road (asphalt).
-    Oruro-Cochabamba.  This section is all gravel paved, through very
difficult mountainous terrain. A first section of 105 km will
be improved, relocated where necessary and paved, at an estimated
cost of $43.8 million, of which IDB is financing US$35 million.
-    Cochabamba-Santa Cruz.  There is a road, paved except for a
section of some 40 km, which has practically been destroyed by
mountain slides. A new road through Villa Tunari and Montero
will provide a better connection, Part of the road is built
and paved. Work is in progress in the missing Puerto Grether-
Villa Tunari central sector.
-    Puerto Banegas-Puerto Suarez (Brazilian border).  No road exists.
The feasibility and final engineering studies of this road are
being financed by the Brazilian Government. N
-    Puerto Suarez-Santos (in Brazil) is paved except for the Corumba-
Campo Grande section.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(ii) North-South Axis
-    La Paz-Puerto Salinas (Beni region) 250 km.  The road now goes
as far as Sopecho. The final engineering for the Sopecho-Puerto
Salinas section is being prepared with IDB financing. Construction
is scheduled to start in 1975. The road to San Borja and Trinidad
(to the east) is under construction. In the future, a connection
between Puerto Salinas, Riberalta and Guayaramerin at the border
with Brazil is contemplated. It will connect with the Guayaramerin-
Manaus Road.
-    Oruro-frontier with Argentina, via Potosi and Tarija.  Only small
improvements are foreseen before the end of the decade.
(iii)  Santa Cruz - frontier with Argentina is a track passable only
in dry season. Some sections will be realigned and graveled, but
no substantial improvement is foreseen before the end of the decade.
The map at the end of the report, shows the projects for highway
construction and improvement.
April 1975



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Road User  Charges Paid
by a 12-ton Diesel Truck
Total     Commercial                        Care of a 12t Diesel Truck
Cost        Tax       Tax - %       User Charge          AssuMptions  User Charges
US$/Liter       %           l%             US$/titer                      US$/Veh/Km
Diesel Oil                  0.0365       3.0         5.0    -2.0
Motor Oil                   0.3720       7.3         5.0       2.3      o.oo86          .02L/Km         0.000172
Import Tax 30.5%               -         5.0         5.0        -
Tires       8.5%               -         5.0         5.0
spare Parts 9.5%                         5.0         5.0
Tolls                          _          _           -         -     .0Ol/veh/Ki          _            0.001000
Travel License          |         _                    - |      -     0.10/trip   | 400E/trip           0.000250
0.001422
Notests )   General Sales Tax is 5%. Only tax in excess of 5% is considered as a User Charge.
/ On these three items, tax exemptions to importers are frequently granted.  Therefore,
they are not considered as contributing to user charges.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of the Marginal Maintenance
Costs of Road Use per Type of
Vehicle
1.        Considering the deficiencies in information regarding highway
maintenance costs in Bolivia, this estimate is based on costs developed in
World Bank Staff Occasional Paper No. 15, "Road User Charges in Central
America".
2.        Bolivian roads are uncongested; therefore, the only marginal cost
generated by road use is the one due to increases in highway maintenance
related to variations in traffic.
3.        The variation in highway maintenance cost per km with average daily
traffic has been estimated to be approximately between:
US$0.34 and 0.48 for paved roads
US$2.4 and 4.0 for gravel roads.
4.        We will use an average of US$0.41 for paved roads and 3.2 for gravel.
The maintenance costs for an average vehicle/km will be US$0.0011 on paved
roads and US$0.0088 on gravel roads.
5.        These figures are for average vehicles and should be corrected in
order to estimate the marginal costs of heavy trucks, which are much higher than
those of cars and light trucks. To make this correction we assume the
following composition of traffic: 1/
73% cars
21% light trucks and buses
6% heavy trucks
6.        We assume also that, from the standpoint of the marginal increment
in maintenance cost, one heavy truck is equivalent to 15 cars and one light
truck or bus is equivalent to four cars. As a result, the number of equivalent
car units in a unit of ADT is (0.73 + 4 x 0.21 + 15 x 0.06) or 2.47. The
marginal maintenance cost per vehicle/km will therefore be:
1/   In Panama, for instance, as an average,interurban traffic is composed of
73% automobiles, 13% buses, 8% light trucks and 6% medium and heavy trucks.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
---------US$ per vehicle/km ------
Paved               Unpaved
Cars                           0.000445               0.003563
Light trucks                   0.00178                0.01425
Heavy trucks                   0.00668                0.05344
7.        Our estimate, presented in Annex 3, of the contribution of heavy
trucks to road user costs is US$0.001422 per vehicle/km.  Therefore the
uncharged marginal cost of road use by heavy trucks can be estimated to be:
US$0.005258 per vehicle/km on paved roads
US$0.052018 per vehicl,/km on gravel roads.
In Bolivian pesos:
$b 0.105160 per vehicje/km on paved roads
$b 1.040360 per vehi4le/km on gravel roads
8.        Assuming a load factor of 8 tons per velhcle, the uncharged value
per ton-km is:
$b 0.013145 per tQn-km on paved roads
$b 0.130045 per ton-km on gravel roads
9.        These values should be compared with the average-existing fare per,
ton-km of $b 0.733 per ton-km.
February 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Brief Description of Railway Property
A.   Track and Structure
1.        Track is uniformly 1-m gauge.  Rails vary in weight from 25 to
37 ks/meter. Sleepers are wood, a high percentage of which (+ 70%) are
rotten and must be replaced.  Graded ballast Is practically non-existent.
There are some sharp curves (65 m) on th&e Wesi:ern System; they are much
easier on the Eastern System (minimum radlus c,f 300 im on the Sta-Cruz-Cochabamba
Line).  About 85 bridges need replacemext on t he Uyuni-ullague Line.  Track,
structures and budildings, although not im gooG condition, should carry the
levels of traffic foreseen until 1980. The most critical item is the high
percentage of bad ties. Se:ond on the list of critical items is track
materials (especially fishp..Lates).  Rails are .,enerally in reasonable shape,
with two exceptions:  (a) a 68-km sector close to Robore, on the Eastern
System, where railsi are of a variety of weights and profiles, all underweight;
and (b) a 150-km sector clos,m to Uyuni, where rails have been corroded by
the salinity of the eart-i. Old timber bridges on the Uyuni-Ollague line are
being replaced under the First 1Lailway Pregram.  The present project contem-
plates the substitution .wf 30 s.teel bridges, dating from the days when the
line had a 0.75 m gauge, which,, besides being under strength for a 1-m gauge
line, are badly corroded by the. salinity of the environment.
2.        Due to the very high cost of any realignment on the Oruro-
Cochabamba line, and to the lo-A den.3ity of its traffic, the least uneconomic
solution is to accept the fact that the line may be interrupted every year
for a few weeks. The Investment PJ.an therefore contemplates the purchase
of earthmoving and stone quarry eqijipment to reopen the line after each
interruption and to improve the defenses against the river floods.
3.        A time-phased program tcj upgrade the track from the present condi-
tion to a level adequate to permit the execution of periodic maintenance was
prepared; the crews were trained in periodic maintenance techniques; however,
actual full implementation of the new procedures can start only in April 1975,
when the 1975 rainy season is over and tools and parts financed by the IDA
Credit have arrived. Procurement of sleepers proved to be most difficult;
however, ENFE is making contracts which will provide adequate amounts in the
second semester of 1975.
4.        Train control is made by token system or by line order system, which
are adequate for the light level of traffic to be carried.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The very poor condition of the telecommunications system is a major
obstacle to the improvement of ENFE's operation and administration.  It's
complete requirement was given top priority in the proposed Second Railway
Project.
B.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
6.       As of March 1, 1975, the composition of the fleet is as follows:
1,860 freight cars, 98 passenger cars, 10 ferrobuses, 8 rail cars, 19 mainline
diesel electric locomotives (1,850 hp), 5 mainline diesel hydraulic locomotives
1,100 hp), 4 diesel hydraulic shunters (550 hp) and 75 steam locomotives
of various types and power. The diesel fleet and 100 wagons were acquired
from Japan and 10 railcar sets were acquired from Germany in 1968. Two
diesel trainsets purchased from Japan (4 elements each), because of their
low reliability and high maintenance costs, will be converted into coaches
in 1975 in the Uyuni workshop and used in the international trains.
7.        Diesel locomotives and railcars were supplied in 1968-1969; no
adequate conversion of steam locomotive shops into diesel workshops followed.
This lack of shop facilities, the scarcity of skilled personnel in diesel
repair and the long delivery delays of spare parts and equipment financed
with the first IDA credit caused a breakdown of the motive power fleet in
1973-1974. Only in the second half of 1974, with the valuable support of
the technical assistance, did the situation change. With the first arrival
of spares and equipment and the conversion of the Viacha and Guaracachi
workshops, to be completed in 1976, there are good reasons to expect that the
situation will improve and that the availability of motive power and rolling
stock will increase late in 1975 and early in 1976.
C.   Workshops
8.        The concentration of workshops following the dieselization of the
fleet is in progress, but it has been delayed, mainly by social reasons and
by a lack of authority of the Railway Management. With recent changes in the
Government, a more decisive action of ENFE is expected in moving excessive
personnel and assigning them where needed according to the workshop concen-
tration plan. The continuance of the workshop operation at Tupiza, Cochabamba,
Sucre and La Paz have been justified for keeping in service more steam
locomotives than expected by the plan. They will be converted into running
sheds since the diesel fleet will enter completely into service.
9.        The workshop at Guaracachi (Santa Cruz) will be upgraded to cope
with the essential repairs of the deisel fleet on the Eastern System. The
time involved in passing locomotives from Santa Cruz to Viacha (more than
one month and a half per round trip) justifies this upgrading with the
investment involved.
May 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
New Lines Under Construction or Proposed
A.   Under Construction
1.        The Argentine and Bolivian Governments agreed in 1967 to extend
the Yacuiba-Santa Cruz line northward to a navigable point on the Rio Mamore
in order to encourage the economic development of northeastern Bolivia and
to strengthen links between Bolivia and Argentina. A joint mixed Argentine-
Bolivian commission is supervising the construction. The finance is supplied
by Argentina with repayment guaranteed by the sales of Bolivian gas to
Argentina. The 102-km section to Santa Rosa has been completed, and construc-
tion is in progress on the second 104-km section from Santa Rosa to
Rio Yacapani. Final design has been completed for the third 104-km section
ending at Rio Mamore; this 310-km line is being built to lower standards than
most of ENFE's network and its cost is estimated at about US$30 million. The
two Governments have also recently agreed to study an extension of a further
140 km to the town of Trinidad.
2.        The potential of the country to be opened up by the line has not
been established by any economic study. Further, the possibility of other
transport modes, particularly the construction of roads, seems to have been
ignored in the decision to promote economic integration of this area. The
Government appears determined to proceed with the project as agreed with
Argentina.
3.        Presently there are no regular commercial operations on the section
that has been completed. However, rather than allowing the track and facili-
ties to deteriorate through lack of use (as happened to much of the Eastern
System lines), potential traffic should be sought and operations should
start. If ENFE is required to manage these operations, which are likely to
result in deficits in the early stages, the resulting losses should be compen-
sated by specific reimbursement and the finances of this line should be
separated from those of ENFE, until such time as the line becomes viable.
B.   Proposed
4.        The linking of the Eastern and Western Systems within its own
territory is a longtime Bolivian aspiration. It is also a part of a longtime
Brazilian aspiration to see the Atlantic and the Pacific Ports linked by rail.
Three alternative routes have been considered:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(a) from Aiquile to La Florida (about 250 kmi);
(b)  from Tarabuco to Cuevo (200 km), the 50-km section
Cuevo-Boyuibe having already been built for that purpose; and
(c) the connection of Cochabamba with the new line under construc-
tion from Santa Rosa to Rio Yapacani at a point near the
Rio Mamore.
5.        The DMJM Transport Survey of 1969 concluded that this rail link
had no economic justification. In 1974, the Government of Brazil allocated
Cr$ 10 million to make a feasibility study of the proposed link.
i'ebruarv I`75



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Time-Phased Action Programs (1975-1979)
A.   Rehabilitation of Track
The rehabilitation of the track requires (i) the upgrading of the
present track conditions to a level at which periodic maintenance becomes
possible; (ii) the substitution of rails in two sectors (68 km and 150 km);
(iii) the replacement of a few bridges in the Uguri area; and (iv) the
execution of periodic maintenance work.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B.   Diesel Motive Power and Rolling Stock
1.   Diesel Motive Power
Number of units in fleet to be in running condition /1
by end of
1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979
Main Line Diesel Locomotives
in fleet                     24    24    24    30    37    37
in running condition         16    22    24    30    37    37
Shunting and Light Diesel Locomotives
in fleet                      4     4     4     4    13    13
in running condition          1     4     4     4    13    13
Diesel Railcars
a.   Ferrobuses
in fleet                     10    10    12    12    14    14
in running condition          4    10    12    12    14    14
b.   Automotors
in fleet /2                   2     2     2     2      2     2
in running condition          -     -     -     -      -     -
The units contemplated in the Investment Plan are expected to enter
service as follows:
a)   Mainline Diesel Electric Locomotives:  6 in 1977 and 7 in 1978
b)   Shunters and Light Diesel Electric
Locomotives                                          9 in 1978
c)   Ferrobuses                              2 in 1976 and 2 in 1978
/1 In running condition means available for service. The units unavailable
because of major accidents and extensive delays in obtaining spare parts
are not included. Units undergoing scheduled repair work are included.
/2 The two automotor units comprise four cars each. They are considered to
be uneconomic to repair. The mission has suggested that they be stripped
of their motors, transformed into first class passenger cars, and be used
as a unit on the international train to Buenos Aires. To complete this
unit, the Investment Plan contemplates two sleeping cars, one diner, and
two baggage cars.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
2.   Rehabilitation Program and Modernization of Workshops
(i) Viacha Workshop: In 1975, this main diesel workshop has to
repair the five damaged and cannabalized D.E. locomotives and to
do the intermediate overhaul of seven locomotives that have
reached 24,000 hours of service.
For 1976, it has to do the intermediate overhaul of the seven D.E.
locomotives that have reached 24,000 hours of service, and the
overhaul of ferrobuses scheduled for the 4,800 hours of service
inspection.
(ii)  Uyuni Workshop:  In 1975, it has to (a) perform the general
overhaul of 12 steam locomotives, (b) rehabilitate 140 freight
cars and 13 passenger cars, and (c) convert into passenger cars
the eight elements of the two Japanese diesel automotors.
For 1976, it has to (a) repair six steam locomotives with general
overhaul and eight with light overhaul and (b) rehabilitate 230
freight cars and 16 passenger cars.
Target labor requirements for repairs of rolling stock (in
man-hours per unit) are as follows:
1972     1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Steam locomotive
general overhaul          46,500   38,000  28,000  20,000  16,000  12,000
Passenger car
general repair            28,400   28,400  20,000  11,000   9,000   7,500
Freight car
general repair             3,500    3,000   2,000   1,700   1,400   1,200
(iii)  Robore Workshop:  In 1975, it has to repair five steam loco-
motives with general overhaul and three with intermediate overhaul,
and rehabilitate 70 freight cars and three passenger cars.
In 1976, it has to repair four steam locomotives with general
overhaul, 70 freight cars and four passenger cars.
(iv) Modernization: The conversion of the Viacha workshop into
ENFE's diesel workshop will be completed in 1976, to the extent
that the first general overhaul of diesel electric lotomotives
may start at the end of the year.
The upgrading of the Guaracachi shop will be completed in 1976.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
C.   Staff Redeployment and Reduction
A preliminary study has indicated a present requirement of about
6,300 employees. This figure will be revised when the detailed study of
ENFE's manpower requirements is completed.
D.   Reorganization of Operations
The reorganization of operations was based on the following main
actions, which have all been started and should be pursued:
(i) The implementation of a Transport Plan, which determines
the trains required to carry out the forecast traffic (composition,
routing, timetable).
(ii) The creation of train control offices.
(iii) The setting up of a car allocation system adapted to ENFE's
requirements, and
(iv) The reorganization of marshalling yards.
E.   Planning Unit
ENFE should complete the organization of a Planning Unit, directly
under the General Manager, and to be responsible for (i) the formulation of
Company Policy; (ii) long-range planning, updating and carrying forward of
the Investment Plan; (iii) setting up and monitoring of management controls;
(iv) statistics; and (v) traffic costing.
F.   Financing and Accounting
Accounting
ENFE's 1975 balance sheets will be improved by:
(i) Clearance of suspense accounts.
(ii) Clearance of long standing sundry debtors which are now
bad debts.
(iii) Clearance of those inventory items which are obsolete.
(iv) Completion of revaluation of fixed assets, together with
realistic depreciation schedules.
May 1975



Action Program 1975-1979
Quantitative Targets
1975           1976            1977             1978             1979
Operations
1.  Working ratio (%)                      85             85               82              79               78
2. operating ratio (%)                     96             95               95              94               94
3. Availability of mainline                70             75              80               85               85
diesel locomotives (
4. Average daily run of diesel           400             410             425              440              440
mainline locomotives (Km.)
5. Availability of freight car (%)        68              74              80               82               85
W       E       W      E       W       E       W      E       W        E
6. Average net load per car (tons)!/  21.0  17.2    21.0  17.4    21.0  17.5    21.1   17.7    21.2    17.9
7. Average daily run per car           45.0   70.0   46.0  74.0    47.5  77.0    48.0   79.0    49.0    81.0
in service (Km.)
8. Net ton-km. per wagon-day            650    850      670    910     690    950      700    985     720    1020
in use
9. Wagon turnaround time (day))2/    10.9  10.2    10.9  10.0   10.8    9.9    10.7    9.7    10.6             9.6
10.  Number of staff (end of yr.)/         6.300           6.300          6.300           6.300           6.300
Rehabilitation
11.  Km. of track                           24           105              84               50               75
12. Number of freight cars                 210            300             140               -                _
13.  Number of coaches                     16              20              12
14. Number of diesel locomotives            6               2               _
15. Number of ferrobuses                     5              1
1/ Respectively for Western and Eastern Systems.
2  Targets to be revised after study of ENFE's manpower requirements is completed.
3/ 1975 - Work includes only 24 km. of rehabilitation since the completion of the 100 km. already
contracted has first claim on available materials.  Work also includes the consolidation of earth
fills in the Robor6-Naranjos section of the Eastern System.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJRCT
Main Items of the 1975-1979 Investment Plan
1.   Way and Works (33% of total expenditure).  Investment in this category
contains:
1.1  Track Renovation Material:  This item includes basic track materials
such as ties, fastenings, fish plates, turnouts, 68 km of rail for Robore
(to replace light and heterogeneous rails) and 150 km of rail for the Uyuni
region, where the salinity of the soil severely corroded the track. This
material is essential to upgrade the'track to a level compatible with the
traffic to be carried and to permit the implementation of periodic maintenance
schemes.
1.2 Ballasting Works: Ballasting is an essential part of the rehabilita-
tion of the track. Under the First Railway Project, ballast was supplied by
the contractor doing the rehabilitation of 106 km of the Oruro-La Paz line.
In the future, ENFE wishes to produce its own ballast. The volume of ballast
required by ENFE's ballasting program (about 3,000,000 m3) justifies the
investment in two quarries, one in each region, and in ballast cars.
1.3 Tools and Equipment: Includes gang trollies, small track materials,
miscellaneous hand tools, small mechanized tools, measuring devices, two
tamping machines.
1.4 Structure Reinforcement: The 115 bridges on the Uyuni-Ollague line
were built when the line had a 0.75 m gauge. When the track was widened to
a 1.00 m gauge, the bridges were merely reinforced, not replaced. Under
the IDA Credit, 30 steel bridges were purchased to replace 30 wooden bridges.
Under the Second Bank Loan, another 30 steel bridges are to be purchased to
replace 30 steel bridges severely corroded by the salinity of the region.
1.5  Reconstruction of Earthfills and Protection Works:  Normally, during
the rainy season, certain lines (particularly the Oruro-Cochabamba line) are
interrupted by floods and traffic is resumed within a few days, after the
track has been cleared and restored. The January 1974 floods were the worst
in 15 years and did devastating damage to the Viacha-Oruro and the Oruro-
Cochabamba lines; 20 km of the Oruro-Viacha line were flooded by an artificial
lake created by the overflow of the Desaguadero River, and a 24 km detour
had to be built (consequently, the line was interrupted for one year). Whole
sections of the Oruro-Cochabamba line were washed away and several bridges
destroyed. Since relocation of the line is considered to be uneconomic because
of its excessive cost, earth-moving equipment is being purchased to replace the
overaged present one, in numbers sufficient only to reopen the line rapidly
after a normal year interruption and to rebuild the defenses of the line



ANNEX 8
Page 2
against floods and avalanches. The defenses of the bridge at Puerto Paila
(Eastern System) will 'tie studied and executed as part of the hvdroelectric
plant to be built some 30 km up river.
1.6 Building: When the track maintenance sections were reorganized to be
of a uniform length, some crews quarters could no longer be used, and new
quarters will have to be built at proper locations.
1.7 Telecommunications: Are a high prioritv item. They are presently in
very bad shape, with scarce and obsolete equipment and poor line materials.
A complete new installation is being considered which will allow proper
transmission of information and orders and will also allow the Command Posts
to effectively control the progress of trains.
1.8 Station Facilities: Include the construction of sidings, as well as the
purchase of some goods-handling equipment and a few scales.
2.   Motive Power (11% of total expenditures).
It includes provision for: - 13 main line diesel locomotives
- 9 shunters and light diesel locomotives
- 4 diesel railcar sets (2 units per set)
- spare parts
considered to be indispensable to handle the forecast freight and passenger
traffics and to complete the dieselization of the fleet in 1979. Shunters
and light diesel locomotives should be of the same power to simplify spares
and maintenance requirements. The new fleet is expected to enter service
as follows:
General
1975   1976  1977  1978  1979  Total  Total
Mainline diesel electric
locomotives    West             -      -      3     3     -    6 )
East            -      -      3     4     -    7       13
Shunters and light diesel
electric
locomotives    West             -      -      -     9     -    9)       9
East                   -      -        -    - )
Railcars
(ferrobuses)   West            -       1     -      1     -    2 )
East            -      1      -     1     -    2)
3.   Rolling Stock (25% of total expenditure).
3.1  It includes provision for:  - 770 freight cars
-  40 ballast cars
- 29 passenger coaches
- 20 cabooses
- spare parts



ANNEX 8
Page 3
3.2 Out of the present fleet of 1,860 freight cars, 1,020 are being rehabil-
itated, with 40 of them assigned to internal service, 300 new or in good
condition and 770 to be purchased to cope with the 1979 traffic forecast
requiring 2,050 freight cars. The freight cars to be ordered are to be box
cars (550), flat cars (100) and gondola cars (120). The new acquired stock
is expected to enter the service as follows:
General
1975  1976  1977  1978 1979  Total  Total
Freight cars         West         -    200    -    250   -    450)
East         -    100    -    220   -    320)
Cabooses             West         -     -      -     13   -      13)    20
East        -         -          7   -       7)
Ballast cars                      -     -    40      -    -      40     40
Total             830
3.3 Taking into account the old passenger cars to be scrapped (59), and
the cars to be rehabilitated (48) in order to cope with 1979 forecast traffic
demand, 29 units must be purchased and entered into service as follows:
General
1975  1976  1977  1978 1979 Total   Total
Passenger cars       West         -     -      -     9    -    9)       24
(1st & 2nd class)   East          -     -     -    13    2   15)
Sleeping cars        West         -     2      -     -    -    2)        2
East        -      -                 -      )
Dining cars          West         -     1      -     -    -    1)
East         -     -     -                  )
Baggage cars         West         -     2      -     -    -    2)        2
East        -      -     -                  )
Total             29
4.   Locomotive and Car Rehabilitation (3% of total expenditure)
This item includes the procurement of spare parts for rehabilitation
of (a) 11 diesel locomotives and 6 railcars now out of service and for the
overhaul backlog of those now in operation; (b) 48 passenger cars and 650
freight cars. It also includes the procurement 6f a basic stock of spare
parts for diesel locomotives, railcars, passenger and freight cars totally
lacking at present, in view of the exceptionally long lead time experienced
for these materials.
5.   Workshop Modernization (2% of total expenditure)
It comprises the purchase of facilities and essential machine tools
for the repair and maintenance of modern equipment of the following workshops:



AN4EX   .
Page 4
Viacha for diesel locomotives and railcars on the Western
System;
Uyuni and Robore for passenger and freight cars for the
Western and Eastern Systems, respectively.
Guaracachi for diesel locomotives and railcars of the
Eastern System.
February 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Scope of Technical Assistance Services to ENFE (October 1975-December 1976)
The UNDP, up to the end of Phase II on September 30, 1975, will
have granted US$2.3 million for technical assistance services to ENFE, with
the Bank acting as Executing Agency. As described elsewhere in this report,
positive results have been obtained, and ENFE has taken long strides on its
way to its rehabilitation. However, these strides have been mostly in the
administrative, organizational and operational fields. Progress in the
improvement of its fixed and rolling plants has been greatly delayed by the
long lead times between ordering and receiving the materials, parts, tools
and equipment, financed by the IDA Credit, which started to reach Bolivia
only in the last quarter of 1974, exactly when the ongoing technical assist-
ance was coming to an end.
With the arrival of the goods purchased with the IDA Credit funds,
and more so, with the arrival of the greater amount of goods to be purchased
under the second Bank loan, technical assistance services will be indispensible,
at least for 1975 and 1976, and possibly later, although on a reduced scale.
The nature of the technical assistance services, however, will have to be
different. During Phase I, the purpose of the technical assistance was
basically to diagnose ENFE's ills and to recommend solutions for its problems.
During Phase II, the same goal was pursued in certain sectors, while, in
other sectors, where the recommendations were beginning to be implemented,
the technical assistance needs changed from the conceptual to the execution
level, and a certain number of experts were of the shop superintendent and
track inspector levels. For Phase III, this trend toward assistance at the
execution level and toward systematic on-the-job training of personnel will
be further enhanced, and the emphasis should be placed on implementing
existing recommendations.
The technical assistance services to be provided can be summarized
as follows:
1. Track Maintenance and Improvement: to assist ENFE in organizing and
carrying out field work with the materials and the tools received at the end
of 1974, and with those which will be purchased through the second Bank loan;
to supervise the work of contractors; to complete the training of the 150
track crews; and to review the existing work programs, adapting them to the
actual necessities of ENFE, as the work progresses and conditions vary.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
1.   Maintenance of Rolling Stock
(a) Motive Power: the Viacha main workshop will become fully operational
only late in 1976, when the machine tools and equipment to be paid from the
second Bank loan have been received and put into service. With the machine
tools purchased under the First IDA Credit and with the conclusion, in 1975,
of the civil works now in progress, Viacha will be able to perform inter-
mediate overhauls of diesel locomotives. Assistance is needed to help
install and organize the new shop, to establish work procedures and quality
standards, to train personnel at all levels, and to prepare Viacha's work
program for the 24,000 hours general overhaul of locomotives to be started
in 1977. The present expert, who has been very successful, should be retained
throughout the year 1975-1976, with residence at Viacha and occasional visits
to Guaracachi.
(b) Guaracachi: the shop will be upgraded to a higher capacity than
originally considered, because of the extremely long time needed to send a
locomotive from Santa Cruz to Viacha and back via Argentina (45 days).
(c) Oruro: will have to improve its plant and work procedures to
handle current maintenance of locomotives.
A second diesel expert should assist in reorganizing these two
shops. His presence should be coordinated with the availability of spares
and tools.
(d) Uyuni and Robore: are working well, in spite of great difficulties.
However, services of the expert who organized the chain-type repair procedures
for cars at both sites should return for a short period to review the work
performed since he left and to improve other sectors of the shops.
3.   Operations
(a) With the installation of the new telecommunications network, the
efficiency of the Train Control Offices should improve considerably. Assist-
ance will be needed to bring these Train Control Offices to full efficiency;
to improve procedures in the stations and at the marshalling yards, in the
car distribution system and in the turnaround time of rolling stock; and to
effect the installation of a subtraffic control office at Uyuni.
(b) to assist ENFE improve diesel traction operations by improving
driver and engine utilization, by improving the professional capacity of
drivers and inspectors, and by improving the efficiency of the running sheds.
4.   Tariffs - Commercial Policy
(a) to help ENFE implement the new tariff structure and the cost
accounting system; to train personnel at different levels in these disciplines.
(b) to assist ENFE in developing an aggressive commercial spirit by
training its staff.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
5.   Procurement and Warehousing
(a) to help ENFE implement the recommendations of the expert regarding
the setting up of modern stores and warehouse systems and an efficient
procurement mechanism;
(b) to assist ENFE in preparing lists of spare parts and materials
required for the rehabilitation and the periodic maintenance programs.
6.   Accounting:  to help ENFE implement the new accounting system inaugurated
on January 1, 1974 and, particularly, to modernize its balance sheets, adopt
more realistic figures for fixed assets and depreciation, eliminate bad debts,
and complete the training of the personnel.
7.   Statistics:  to help ENFE implement the statistical plan prepared by
the consultants and to train the personnel.
8.   Costing:  to help ENFE implement the new costing system and extend its
application throughout EiFE.
9.   Computer:  to assist ENFE in deciding whether it should keep or replace
its present computer, and in selecting the most suitable type of computer.
10. Telecommunication: to help ENFE install the equipment, organize its
telecommunication system, and train the personnel.
11. Training: to help ENFE organize and start its railway school for the
systematic training and recycling of its staff in all sectors (track,
operations, shops and administration).
May 1975



BOLIVIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Proposed Bar Chart
1 9 7 5                      1 9 7 6                              Total
Position                                     O   N   D    J   F   M   A         J   J   A   S   0   N   D    Man Aonth
Supervision                                                                         A _                            1.5
Head of team-track                            _   _   _    _   _   _   _                                          10.0
Track rehabilitation                              -             -   -   -   - _                                   12.0
East. Region
Track rehabilitation                              -             -                                                  5.0
West. Region
Telecomzunications                                                                                                 2.0
Shop expert - Viacha                         _                 - !      - _          - _     - _   _              13.0
Shop-expert - Oruro-                                                                -   -   -   -   -              5.0
Guaracachi
Diesel traction                                   -   -             -                                             10.0
instructor
Procurement - Ware-                                        _   -   -   _   _                                       5.0
housing                                      -   -        -
Operations                                    _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _11.0
Accounting                                                                                                         2.5
Statistics                                                                                                        2.0
Costs                                             i      _                                                         5.0
Computer                                                                                                           2.5
Training                                            1              -6.o
Shop expert -Uyuni-                                                                                                3.0
Roborel
Total       95.5       c
_ . . .   rs~'



AI! TX 10
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Program of First Railway Project (1973-1977)
Evaluation of Progress Realized as of 31 December 1974
Schedule 3                                  Progress as of 31 December 1974
1.  Extension to the whole network        All track maintenance crews have been trained
of the track rehabilitation           in proper working methods.  Results will
scheme.                               improve with the arrivtl of materials and
tools purchased under the IDA Credit.
2.  Rehabilitation program of diesel      Number of Locomotives or Rail Cars:
mainline locomotives, shunters
and ferrobuses.                       In fleet   To be in running condition by
by end      end      end     end     end
1972      1972    1973    1974    1975
Diesel Locomotives:
(a) mainline
planned                           24         18      22      24       24
real                              24         18      13      16
(b) shunting diesel
planned                            4          4       4     ,          4
real                               4          4       0       1
Diesel Rail Cars:
(a) ferrobuses
planned                           10          8       9      10       10
real                              10          8       4       4
(b) automotors  /
planned                            2          0       2       2        2
real                               2          0       0       0
Spare parts ordered under the IDA Credit only started to arrive late in 1974,
(ferrobuses) and the bulk has arrived early in 1975. This explains the low
performance in this sector.
/ In running condition means locomotives and rail cars available for service. It
includes units undergoing scheduled repair work (but excludes, for instance, units
unavailable due to such causes as major accidents and extensive delays in obtaining
spares).
/ Eight automotor units will be converted into passenger cars in 1975.



ANNEX 1Q
Page 2
Schedule 3                                   Progress as of 31 December 19Th
3. Rolling stock rehabilitation program                  Implementation as follows:
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976
Passenger cars
planned   3    22    23    -      -
real   3    12    15
Freight cars
planned  60   140   300   300   220
real   2   148   220
Ihere again,shortage of materials
explains the shortfall.
4. (a) Workshop concentration program
to be completed by December 1975
Viacha workshop:                                 40% completed;  will be partially
operational by December 1975, and
fully operational bv December 1976
when equipment to be purchased under
the second loan has arrived.
Uyuni and Robore workshops:                      Completion expected by December 1976,
for the same reason.
(b) Closure of Cochabamba, Sucre and                 Decreasing activity.  Main problem
Potosi workshops                                 is reallocation of personnel.
(c) Conversion of Oruro, Tupiza workshops            The Oruro shop conversion is under
into running sheds by December 1976              way; of Tupiza,not yet started.
5. (&) By April 1973, to complete the order-            Completed in December 1973.
ing of spares and components required
for the project (1973-1974)o
(b) By December 1973, to complete the                Completed in December 1973.
listing of components required for
the rest of the plan period.
(c) By December 1973, to set up an                   In 197h, ,the organizational part has
organized stores and supply system               been accomplished. The implementation
and a centralized supply office.                 is difficult for lack of skilled
personnel in the s'tores department.
6. (a) To make effective the new car                    Implementation only partial because
allocation system by March 1973                  of telecommunication inefficiency and
mainline interruption by flood.
(b) By mid-1973, to make effective a                Not implemented because of tele-
train control sub-office at Uyuni                communication inefficiency.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Schedule 3                                     Progress as of 31 December 1974
7. (a) By M1arch 1973, prepare a new tariff                Implemented in November 1973 and
structure for passenger traffic and                 February 197h.
to introduce it by riid-1973
(b) To have the commercial department                   Implemented in June 1973.
fully operational in MIarch 1973
8.  To complete the reorganization of the                  Implemented in December 1973.  The
Superintendency of Personnel and Welfare               Superintendency was suppressed in
by March 1973.                                         January 1975.  Each department will
have its own Personnel Division, a*aci
all Personnel Divisions will be
supervised by a Department of
Industrial Relations.
9. To achieve operating targets as follows:
1973  1974  1975  1976  1977
Working                                                Sharp increases in costs and
ratio %                                                insufficient tariff increases did
not allow ENFE to meet the target,
planned    101    97    90    89    79                but,,after the January 1975 tariff
real    122   121                                  increases,ENFE will surpass the
targets of 1975.
Operating
ratio %
planned    116   112   104    98    92
rea'    142   137
10.  To enable staff entitled to retire by virtue           In course.  About 60%  of the
of age or infirmity to do so, and to redeploy          employees eligible have been retired.
staff as necessary, so as to reach a target            A revised target of 6,300 employees
of about 5,500 by 1977.                                was agreed as a result of manpower
requirement studies.
May 1975



ANNEX 11
BOLIVTIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PAILhiAY PROJECT
Tentative Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year           Disbursement             Cumulative
and Semester             (US$ million)          (US$ million)
FY-1976
12-31-75                   .100 -                   .100
03-31-76                   .150                     .250
06-30-76                 1.661                     1.911
FY-1977
09-30-76                 1.689                     3.600
12-31-76                 3.838                     7.438
03-31-77                11.4Oo                    18.838
06-30-77                10.092                    28.930
FY-1978
09-30-77                 3.070                    32.000
May 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BOLIVIA,
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Investment Plan
1.  Procedure used and rate of return obtained
To evaluate the Investment Plan, an estimate has been made of the
costs of transporting the freight and passengers projected for the railroads,
with and without the Investment Plan. Separate estimations have been made
for the Eastern and Western Systems.
The cost with the Plan has been divided into five items:
(1) Cost of the Investment Plan.
(2) Extra repairs and maintenance of track and equipment
after 1979.
(3) Difference in the operating costs of the railroad with
and without the Plan.
(4) Additional railroad operating costs for the increase in
freight after 1980.
(5) Additional railroad costs for the increase in passengers
after 1980.
The costs without the Plan have been divided into four items:
(1) Extra repairs and maintenance of track and equipment
needed if the Plan is not implemented.
(2) Cost of moving by road the freight lost by the railroads
and economic loss due to the reduction in tonnage moved.
(3) Cost of moving by road the passengers lost by the railroad
and economic loss due to the reduction in passengers moved.
(4) Cost due to the delay in moving the freight if the Invest-
ment Plan is not implemented.
For each of these cost and benefit items, a value was estimated foF
each year of the program and the summary of the cost and benefit streams are
shown in Table 1 of this Annex. Separate estimates of most items were made
for the Western and Eastern sections of the railroad. Items for which
separate estimates were not possible were assigned between east and west
on the base of operational and traffic characteristics. In order to assess
the risks of the Investment Plan, a probability distribution for each



ANNEX 12
Page 2
one of the values was estimated. These probability distributions were
later used in establishing a probability distribution of the rate of
return of the project. A sensitivity analysis with respect to each
one of the components of cost and benefits and with respect to traffic
and the estimate of road costs was also made. Finally, a separate analysis
of the economic justification of the acquisition of locomotives and of the
reconstruction work in the way between Oruro and Cochabamba was performed.
The overall rate of return of the project is 24.3%. The rate of
return for investment in the West is 20.9% and in the East 28.5%.
2.   Estimates of costs and sensitivity of the rate of return to their
variation
2.1 Cost of the Investment Plan
The cost of the Investment Plan, including physical contingencies but
no price contingency, has been taken from Table 2 of the report.  An analysis,
item by item, was made to distribute this cost between the Eastern and Western
Networks.
The sensitivity of the estimated rates of return to 10 and 20%
increases in this cost is:
Rate of Return
West      East        Total
10% increase                 18.55     25.85        21.85
20% increase                 16.65     23.75        19.75
2.2 Extra repairs and maintenance of track and equipment after 1979
After the investment plan is finished, additional expenses, not
normally included in operating costs, will be needed to rehabilitate equip-
ment and track. The amount to be expended for this purpose has been calculated
on the basis of the depreciation allowance for equipment and installations
existing before the plan. The distribution between the Eastern and Western
Networks was made proportional to the projected volume of traffic in 1980,
i.e., 62% West, 38% East.
The sensitivity of the estimated rates of return to 10, 20, 50 and
100% increase in this cost is:



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Rate of Return
West       East          Total
10% increase                 20.75       28.35        24.15
20% increase                 20.55       28.25        23.95
50% increase                 19.85       27.85        23.45
100% increase                 18.75       27.15        22.55
2.3  Difference in the operating cost of the railroads with and
without the Plan
This difference has been estimated on the basis of a projection of
railroad operating costs between 1975 and 1979.  That takes into full consider-
ation the effect on costs of traffic increases and of the improvements in
efficiency that the rehabilitation program will generate and an estimate
of the operating costs of the railroad without the Plan. In this last estimate,
consideration has been given to the fact that a decrease in traffic will take
place with respect to the level prevailing in 1973. A revision of this esti-
mate made on a post-appraisal mission shows it is conservative. This cost was
assigned between East and West in proportion to the difference in traffic
units with and without the Plan in each system.
The difference in operating cost with and without the Plan is
considered constant after 1980 because it refers to the differences in traffic
until 1980. The operating costs generated by increases in rail traffic
after 1980 are considered in cost items 2.4 and 2.5.
The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to 10, 20, 50, 100%
variation in this cost is:
Rate of Return
West       East         Total
10% increase                20.65      28.25        24.05
20% increase                20.35       28.05       23.75
50% increase                19.35       27.25       22.25
100% increase                17.85      25.95        21.45
2.4  Additional railroad cost for the increase in freight after 1980
It has been estimated that, after 1980, freight traffic will increase
at 3% a year on the Western Network and at 6% on the Eastern one.  To calculate
the cost of this additional freight, an estimate was made of the marginal cost
of a ton-km, including depreciation, in order to move this traffic. The esti-
mate of $b 0.70 per ton-km is based on an analysis of the variability of
different cost items; it is for average freight and assumes that 51% of the
total cost is variable.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
The sensitivity of the estimated rates of return to 10, 30, and
50% increases in this cost is:
Rate of Return
West      East            Total
10% increase                20.75     28.35           24.15
30% increase                20.45     27.85           23.75
50% increase                20.05     27.45           23.25
2.5  Additional railroad cost for the increase in passengers after 1980
No increase in pass-km transported was considered for the Western
System assuming, conservatively, that, after 1980, all the increase in pas-
senger traffic will be absorbed by cars and buses. For the Eastern System,
a yearly rate of growth of 2% was assumed. This is a conservative estimate
when compared with the rate of 6.1% yearly increase projected for 1973-1980.
To estimate the increase in costs over the 1980 level, an estimate
was made of the marginal cost of transporting a pass-km in trains (first and
second class) and in ferrobuses. These costs were weighted by the estimated
percentage of passengers to be transported in each class in 1980. As a
result, a marginal cost for the average passenger transported was obtained.
This cost is $b 0.181 per pass-km. The rate of return shows almost no
sensitivity to the estimate of this cost.
2.6 Extra repairs and maintenance of track and equipment needed if
the Plan is not implemented
In the absence of the Investment Plan, in order to maintain service,
even at a decreasing level, expenditures in rehabilitation of sections of the
track, in repair of bridges and buildings and in rehabilitation and replace-
ment of rolling stock and motive power will be needed. The basis for projecting
these expenditures are quite weak since no careful analysis has been made of
this alternative. The calculation of this cost has been based on the analysis
of existing railway property and assumptions on what can be considered a
reasonable rate of yearly replacement consistent with normal criteria for the
estimate of depreciation in railroads. The total yearly cost estimated is
$b 652 million. This cost is assigned between East and West in proportion
to 1980 traffic.
The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to 10, 20, 50 and
100% decreases in this cost is:



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Rate of Return
West      East       Total
10% decrease                    20.25      27.85     23.65
20% decrease                     19.55     27.25      22.95
50% decrease                     17.55     25.35      21.05
100% decrease                     14.45     22.65      18.15
2.7  Cost of moving by road the freight lost by the railroads and
economic loss due to the reduction in tonnage moved
Separate estimates were made for the Western and Eastern System.
2.7.1     Western System
Two basic estimates were used to calculate the cost: the
ton-km of freight lost when the Plan is not implemented and the cost per
ton-km of the displaced cargo. For estimating the loss of freight by the
railroads when the Plan is not implemented, an analysis was made of the
transport equipment, including rental, that can be expected to be available
between 1975 and 1980. It was considered that the sharp decreases in capacity
shown by this analysis can be reduced at least partially by keeping in service
for a longer time equipment that should be scrapped. Projected traffic in
this case is, for 1976, 2% higher than 1973 traffic. From 1976 to 1981, a
decrease of 6% a year was calculated, and, for 1981 to 1986, a decrease of 3%
a year was considered. After 1986, traffic remains constant.
2.7.2     Eastern System
As a result of the lack of reasonable alternatives to railroads
for moving the production of Eastern Bolivia, in the absence of the Investment
Plan, part of the production that the railroads will not be able to move
will be lost (not produced), and the rest will have to be transported at
a higher cost by road. It was estimated crude4y that, of the freight lost
by the railroad when the Plan is not implemented, 30% will not move at all
and 70% will use alternative means of transport.
For estimating the loss of freight by the railroad when the Plan
is not implemented, an analysis was made of the transport equipment, including
rentals, that can be expected to be available between 1975 and 1980.
As for the west, it was considered that the sharp decreases in capacity implied
by these figures can be reduced. As a result, it is assumed that, without the
Plan, 1976 traffic will be 13% higher than 1973; between 1977 and 1981, traffic
will decrease at 6% a year. After 1981, a constant level of traffic is
considered.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
To estimate the cost of moving by road that part of the lost rail
freight that will continue to move, an average cost between the only two
alternatives available was used. The estimated cost is $b 1.42 per ton-km.
For the freight lost that will not move because it is unable to afford the
higher road transport cost, benefits lost should vary between 0, for the
marginal cargo, and the difference between the average existing rail rate
per ton-km and the alternative road cost. The average rail rate per ton-km
is $b 0.540, and the estimated alternative road cost is $b. 1.42. Half of
the difference between these two values, or $b 0.44, is considered to be the
benefit lost.
As a result, the economic cost for the average ton-,in of freight
lo3t by the re.ilroads is estimated as:
0.70 x 1.42 + 0.30 x 0.44 = $b 1.13
To consider the impact that the improvement in the road system will
have on highway costs, we have assumed that these lost benefits will decrease
by 10% between 1981 and 1985, by 20% between 1986 and 1990 and by 30% from
1991 onwards.
The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to 10, 20, 30 and
40% decrease in the cost of moving by road the displaced freight is:
Rate of Return
West        East         Total
10% decrease                  18.75       26.15        22.05
20% decrease                  16.55       23.55        19.65
30% decrease                  14.15       20.85        17.05
40% decrease                  11.45       17.65        14.15
2.8  Cost of moving by road the passengers lost by the railroads and
economic loss due to the reduction in passengers moved
Separate estimates were made for the Western and Eastern Systems.
2.8.1     Western System                          N
Estimates were made of the pass-km lost when the Plan is
not implemented and of the cost of transporting those passengers in buses.
Pass-km transported without the Plan were projected
assuming that,in 1976, pass-km will remain at the same low level prevailing
in 1973. Between 1976 and 1981, pass-km transported will decrease at 3%
annually. No variation in pass-km transported is expected after 1981. To
estimate the cost of transporting the passengers lost in buses, average fares



ANNEX 12
Page 7
charged by different type of bus services (pullman, special and standard)
weighted by the proportion of 1977 rail passengers in ferrobuses, first and
second class, were used. Considering that rail passengers will move mainly
where there are no paved roads, we assume that the relevant bus cost is on
a route 40% paved and 60% unpaved. The resulting weighted average fare per
pass-km is US$0.156.
2.8.2     Eastern System
The same basic assumptions used for the Western System
were used to estimate passenger traffic without the Investment Plan. Part
of the traffic lost by the railroads will have to move in more expensive or
uncomfortable ways, and part will not move at all. For those displaced to
other means, a cost 50% higher than the interurban fare for pullman bus services,
i.e., $b 0.330, is considered. For those not moving, half of that amount, i.e.,
$b 0.165, is estimated. Assuming that 50% of the traffic uses alternative
means and 50% does not move, a cost of $b 0.2475 per pass-km lost is o,btained.
To consider the impact that the improvement in the road system will have on
costs, it has been assumed that the cost will decrease by 10% between 1981 and
1985, 20% between 1986 and 1990 and 30% from 1991 onward.
The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to 10, 20,
30 and 40% decreases in the estimated cost of moving the displaced passengers
by road is:
Rate of Return
West      East    Total
10% decrease                   20.75      28.25   24.05
20% decrease                   20.45      28.05   23.85
30% decrease                   20.25      27.75   23.65
40% decrease                   20.05      27.45   23.35
2.9  Cost due to the delay in moving the freight if the Plan
is not implemented
One of the most undesirable consequences of the shortage of transport
capacity and the frequent interruption of normal routes in Bolivia is the
delay in the movements of freight, especially imports and exports.  The
appraisal mission was able to verify several instances in which delays reached
three, four or even five months.  One of the main purposes of the Plan is
to reduce delays to more normal standards. If the Plan is not implemented,
the existing situation will certainly worsen. A crude approach for estimating
this benefit has been followed.
The assumption is made that, if the Plan is implemented, it will
speed the transport time of import and export cargo, excluding oil, gas and
smuggling by 10 days with respect to the situation that will prevail with



ANNEX 12
Page 8
no plan. An interest rate of 15% a year or 0.0393% a day is assumed. Total
exports and imports, without oil, gas and smuggling were US$524 million in
1973. For the purpose of the estimate, only US$400 million are considered.
The interest per 10 days is US$1.53 million, or an equivalent of $b 30.6.
This benefit is considered only until 1985 when the improvement in the road
system may change the situation.
The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to 10, 20, 50 and
100% decreases in this cost is:
Rate of Return
West       East       Total
10% decrease                   20.65       28.25      24.05
20% decrease                   20.35       27.95      23.75
50% decrease                   19.55       27.05      22.85
100% decrease                   18.15       25.75      21.55
3.   Sensitivity of the rate of return to the joint variation of correlated
costs and benefit streams
There are three sets of cost or benefit streams whose variation
may be expected to be correlated.
3.1 Difference in the operating cost of the railroads with and
without the Plan and extra repairs and maintenance of track
and equipment if the Plan is not implemented
It can be expected that the larger the amount spent in extra
repairs and maintenance without the Plan (Bi, B5), the larger will be the
difference in operating cost with and without the Plan (C3, C7). A sensitivity
analysis has been made to 10, 20, 30, 100 and 200% decrease in the value of
(C3 + C7) - (Bi + B5). The result is:
Rate of Return
West      East        Total
C3-B1     C7-B5       (C3+C7)-(BI+B5)
10% increase                   20.55      28.15       23.95
20% increase                   20.15      27.75       23.55
30% increase                   19.75      27.35       23.15
100% increase                   17.15      24.95       20.65
200% increase                   14.05      21.95       17.65



ANNEX 12
Page 9
3.2  Railroad cost of moving the additional passengers and freight
after 1980. C4, C8, C9
The estimates of all these costs are based on the estimated value
of long run marginal costs. A sensitivity analysis has been made to 10, 20,
30 and 50% joint increases in C4, C8, C9. The result is:
Rate of Return
East               Total
C8+,C9             U4+C8+c9
10% increase                         28.35              24.15
20% increase                         28.05              23.85
30% increase                         27.85              23.65
50% increase                         27.35              23.25
3.3  Costs of moving by road the displaced freight and passengers
B2, B3, B6, B7
The estimates of these costs are correlated because they all depend
on the estimate made of road transport costs. The sensitivity of the estimated
rate of return to joint 10, 20, 30 and 50% decreases in the estimated values
for B2, B3, B6 and B7 are:
Rate of Return
West          East         Total
B2+B3         B6+B7        B2+B3+B6+B7
10% decrease              18.55          25.85        21.85
20% decrease              16.05          23.05        19.15
30% decrease              13.45          19.95        16.25
40% decrease               6.85          11.95         9.05
4.   Sensitivity to a reduction in projected traffic
4.1 Projected traffic with the plan
A special analysis was made of the sensitivity of the estimated
rate of return for the Western Network Investment Plan to a 10% decrease in
the projected traffic. On this alternative, the traffic projected for 1978
will materialize between 1981 and 1982. Considering this fact the projected
investment in new locomotives and rolling stock for 1977 and 1978 will have
to be postponed until 1980 and 1981. The analysis shows that with this
postponement, the rate of return of the Plan remains practically the same,



ANiEX 12
Page 10
going down from 20.95 to 20.75%. Taking into consideration this low sensiti-
vity, no analysis was made for the Eastern System and the total network. This
analysis reflects the conservative criteria used for dimensioning the acqui--
sition of motive power and rolling stock during the first two years of the
Plan.
4.2 Projected traffic without the Plan
A special analysis was made of the alternative of an increase i.
the capacity to carry traffic without the Plan, assuming that the same costs
will prevail. The only exception considered is a reduction in the benefits
due to the displacement of traffic to roads (B2 and B3). The assumptions made
imply that, in 1976, traffic carried without the Plan will be 14% higher than
the actual traffic carried in 1973 and that, in 1980, it would be 7% lower tihan
1973 traffic. These figures imply an increase of approximately 15% in the
traffic projected without the Plan. In this case, the estimated rate of return
for the Wliestern System would decrease to 18.65%.
5.   Risk Analysis
In order to determine the probability distribution of the estimated
rate of return, a risk analysis, based on probability distributions for each
one of the cost and benefit streams, taking into consideration the cor-
relation among streams, was made. The distribution used and the probabilities
assigned are the following:



ANNEX 12
Page 11
Correlated
Streams                  Distribution                   Values
C1, C5                     Discrete             % variation   0,5,10,20
Probability   .5, .25, .15, .10
C2, C6                     Discrete             % variation   -20, -10, 10, 20
Probability   .2, .3, .2
C3, C7, B1, B5             Discrete             % variation   -100, -50, -20,
20, 50, 100
Probability   .15, .15, .2,
.2, .15, .15
B2, B6, B3, B7             Discrete             % variation   -50, -40, -20,
-10, 10, 20
Probability   0.05, -1, -15,
.2, .4, .1
B4, B8                     Uniform              % variation   from -30 to 50
The probability distribution of the estimated rate of return is the
following:
Rate of return                                        Cumulative
of the overall Plan          Probability                Probability
Less than 6%                    0.00                     0.00
6.1 to 10%                    0.04                     0.04
10.1 to 15%                    0.11                     0.15
15.1 to 20%                    0.15                     0.30
20.1 to 25%                    0.27                     0.57
25.1 to 30%                    0.29                     0.86
30.1 to 35%                    0.12                     0.98
Over 35%                       0.02                     1.00
Mean rate of return 23.1



A.NNEX 12
Page 12
6.   Special analysis of the dieselization program
A special analysis was made of the economic consequences of the
dieselization program, taking into consideration the operating and cost
characteristics of the diesel and steam locomotives being used by ENFE.
It was found that the rate of return of replacing steam traction by diesel
traction varies between 19% a year, if the existing low price of fuel is
used, and 31% a year, if fuel prices are increased by 100% to reach more
realistic values. These estimated rates of return show very little sensitivity
to variations in the assumed lifetime of the locomotives.
7.   Special Analysis of the Investment in the line between Oruro and Cochabainba
Considering that this is the only branch line where major rehabili-
tation work is considered in the plan an economic analysis of the return of
the investment in it was made. This section of the railroad generates or
receives approximately 32% of the total ton-km moved on the Western System,
This line suffers yearly interruptions during the rainy season; in 1974, due
to the heavy rains, it was interrupted from January to May. Because of the
extremely high cost of relocating the line out of the reach of the floods
and of the low traffic density, only indispensable work to consolidate recent
repairs and the construction of some stable works to avoid lengthy inter-
ruptions in the future are considered for the period 1975-1976; 30% of the
investment in this line is to buy earth-moving equipment to replace old
equipment in poor shape and to shorten the period of interruptions. Taking
into consideration that interruptions may be reduced from six to two weeks, and
making the assumption that, during these interruptions, traffic will be
displaced to more expensive road alternatives, a rate of return of 13% has
been estimated for this investment.
May 1975



ANNEX 1
TABLE 1
aimxary Identification of Costs and Benefit Streams
(in millions of Bolivian Pesos)
Cl - Cost of the Investment Plan, West:
Years 1 to 5, Total: 914.88.
C2 - Extra repairs and maintenance after 1979, West:
23:30 per year, from years 6 through 26.
C3 - Difference in the operating cost of the railroad with and without
the plan, West:
13.16 in year 2, increasing to 18.35 in year 6 and remaining
constant up to year 26.
C4 - Additional railroad operatiig c,-c+. for the increase in freight after
1980, West:
3.88 in year 7, increasing to 104.48 in year 26.
C5 - Cost of the Investment Plan, East:
Years 1 to 5 - Total: 573.53
06 - Extra repairs and maintenance, East:
Years 6 to 26 - 14.9 per year.
C7 - Difference in the operating cost of the railroads with and without
the plan, East:
Years 2 to 5, Total: 35.79. Years 6 to 26: 13.85 per year.
C8 - Additional railroad operating cost for the increase in freight
after 1980, East:
Years 7 to 26 - Total: 1,706.60
C9 - Additional railroad cost for the increase in passanger after
1980, .&st:
Years 7 to 26 - Total: 114.04
Bl - Extra repairs of track and equipment if the plan is not
implemented, West:
Years 1 to 26 - 31.70 per year.
B2 - Cost of moving by road the freight lost by the rail, West:
Years: 2 to 26 - Total: 4,549.48.
B3 - Cost of moving by road the pass lost by rail, West:
Years 2 to 6 - Total: 50.23. Years 7 to 26: 14.66 per year.



ANNEX '.2
d...L. . -
B-4 - Cost of delay, West:
Years 2 to 11 - 18.05 per year - 0 thereafter.
B-5 - EKtra repairs and maintenance if the plan is not implemented, East:
Years 1 to 26 - 20.28 per year.
B-6 - Cost of moving by road the freight lost by rail, East:
Year 2 to 26 - Total: 5,893.42.
B-7 - Cost of moving by road the passengers lost, East:
Years 2 to 26 - Total: 3h7.42.
B-8 - Cost of delay, East:
Years 2 to 11 - 12.55 per year.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Cost of Transport of Freight by Road
Based on Data Collected on Bank Mission in March 1975
1.   Basic Assumptions
Volvo - Diesel 12-ton capacity
3 axles - 10 tires
Movement in route 60,000 km a year
Movement other route 9,000 km a year
Route examined La Paz - Santa Cruz - La Paz
Number of round trips 30
ton-km of capacity 720,000 a year
2.   Cost estimates without unpaid road user charges                per year
2.1  Depreciation of capital                                     86,400
2.2  Interest on capital                                         82,650
2.3  Taxes and License fee                                        3,000
2.4  Labor, driver and helper                                    27,300
2.5  Per diem                                                    20,160
2.6  Insurance                                                   17,500
2.7  Garage rental                                                2,400
2.8  Fuel (2.47 km/It, $b 0.73 lt)                               20,367
2.9  Oil and normal service                                      28,290
2.10  Tires                                                      117,456
2.11  M{aintenance and repairs                                    57,867
2.12  Tolls                                                        1,200
Total                                      464,590
100% increase in price of fuel             20,367
Total with readj. price of fuel            484,957



ANNEX 13
Page 2
3.   Cost per ton-km without unpaid road user charges
70% utilization           504,000 ton-km       $b 0.96 per ton-km
75% utilization           540,000 ton-km       $b 0.90 per ton-km
80% utilization           576,000 ton-km       $b 0.84 per ton-km
85% utilization           612,000 ton-km       $b 0.79 per ton-km
4.   Estimated unpaid road user charge per ton-km
(See Annex 4)
$b 0.105160 per veh. km on paved roads
1.040360 per veh. km on gravel roads
Assuming movement 60% on paved and 40% on unpaved roads.
$b 0.479240 per veh. km
$b 0.039937 per ton-km of capacity
70% util-ization     $b 0.0571      per ton-km
75% utilization         0.0532      per ton-km
80% utilization         0.0499      per ton-km
85% utilization         0.0470      per ton-km
5.   Total cost with cost of road use
$b per ton-km
70% utilization                             $ 1.02
75% utilization                               0.95
80% utilization                               0.89
85% utilization                               0.84
A utilization of 75% is considered reasonable for Bolivian standards.
-lay 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Methodology Used In Traffic Forecast and Analysis
of Future Traffic by Major Commodities
A.   Methodology Used in Traffic Forecast
1.   Freight Traffic
A traffic forecast for freight services up to 1980 was prepared by
SOFRERAIL and ENFE. This forecast considered all commodities that represented
more than 1% of total traffic in 1973; it was reviewed and revised by the Bank.
It shows that traffic will grow at a riate of 4.3% p.a. on the Western System
and 9.9% on the Eastern System, resulting in an overall growth of 6.3% p.a.
for the total network.
The projected growth rate in the west is higher than the 3.5% observed
in the period 1960-1973, but past traffic growth had been hampered in the
recent past by deterioration in railway equipment as well as increased road
competition. The restructuring of railway rates in late 1972 had, as one of
its objectives, the discouraging of short-haul traffic. The effect of the
new rate structure is now fully absorbed. The arrival of the equipment ordered
under the first railway project, together with current and future rehabilitation
of lines and equipment and the impact of the recently created Commercial
Department, should enable ENFE to reach its traffic targets. It should be
considered also that there is now a backlog of unfulfilled transport require-
ments due to the lack of equipment.
Traffic has been growing on the Eastern System since its creation at
an unusual rate of about 20%. The eastern part of Bolivia is the main center
for exports of wood, cotton and sugar, which have registered dramatic gains in
recent years. Further large increases are expected in exports of these
commodities, and the nearly 10% growth per year mentioned above is quite
realistic considering the complete monopoly enjoyed by the railway for export-
import traffic.
2.   Passenger Traffic
Even though passenger traffic shows a steady, long-run tendency to
decrease on the Western System, pass-km increased at an average of about 6.6%
a year between 1963 and 1970. Between 1970 and 1973, there was a decrease in
pass-km moved (9% total), due mainly to the lack of equipment. In 1973, the
average occupancy ratio was 87% in rail cars and 68% in normal trains. To
project traffic to 1977, it was assumed that pass-km would grow at 6.1% a year
over the 1973 level, considering that this traffic can be served using the
equipment now in operation and the one to be rehabilitated. Between 1977 and
1980, a rate of growth of 2.5% a year in pass-km was assumed for the purpose
of determining the qquipment required in the five-year plan. Nevertheless,



ANNEX T
Page 2
the acquisition of new equipment for transporting passengers on the Western
System should be conditioned to a more detailed analysis of the competitive
advantages of the railroad in this service.
For the Eastern System, where bus service is virtually non-existent,
regular train passengers are expected to grow at about 3.4% a year to 1980.
Railcar traffic is expected to increase sharply after the large drop in traffic
from 1970 to 1973 (when only one out of three railcars was in service). This
overall future traffic growth is estimated at 5% annually, a conservative
rate compared with the long-run rate of about 10% a year.
B.   Analysis of Future Traffic by Major Commodities
1. Minerals
The projection of production and transport of minerals offers
serious problems. Production fluctuates substantially according to the
variation in world market prices. Transport is, in addition, affected by
the variations in the pure mineral content of exports brought about by
expansion in facilities to concentrate and refine minerals. For this pro-
jection, an analysis has been made of long run trends in the physical
production of minerals in order to determine what can be considered a normal
tonnage to use in the base year of the projection (1973) and a reasonably
long run rate of growth. Normal tonnage for 1973 has been estimated at
307,000 tons, 19,000 tons below the actual tonnage exported. The long run
rate of growth has been estimated at 4.4 percent a year, using a weighted
average of long run rates of growth of different minerals.
Using these basic figures, total tonnage exported would be 365,000
tons in 1977 and 414,000 tons in 1980. It has been considered that, as a
result of existing programs to increase capacity to refine and concentrate
minerals, these total tonnages will be reduced by approximately 25,000 tons
in 1977 and 60,000 tons in 1980. As a result total exports are expected to
reach 340,000 tons in 1977 and 354,000 tons in 1980.
The share of ENFE in the exports of minerals was 59% in 1973.
This share was affected by the lack of equipment and the relatively high fares
charged for the transport of minerals. We assume that this share will not
change in the future, allowing, in this way, for the increased competition
from trucks and the larger percentage of concentrates and metals in exports.
Average haul is assumed to remain at the level observed between 1971-1973.
As a result, traffic is expected to grow as follows:
1973       1977        1980
Tons (103)                    190.8        201         209
Ton-km (106)                   53.1         58.3        60.6
Average haul (km)             281          290         290



ANNEX 3i
Page 3
2.   Iron and Steel for Construction
Railway traffic in this category is virtually all imports. This
traffic is related to the construction activity in the country. The five-year
plan prepared by CONEPLAN (Consejo Nacional de Planificacion) envisages a
6% annual growth in the construction industry. Noting the higher rate of
growth in imports of construction of materials for the eastern part of Bolivia,
a 10% rate of growth has been assumed for this traffic on the Eastee-n System
and 5% for the Western System, resulting in a weighted average growth rate of
6.1%. For the Western System, it is assumed that in 1980, the average haul will
reach the average level observed in the years 1971-1973 (344 km). On the
Eastern System, it was assumed that average haul will increase from a level
of 590 in 1973 to a level of 600 in 1980. The expected traffic in this category
is summarized below:
Western System                Eastern System
1973      1977       1980     1973      1977    1980
Tons (10 )             36.4       44.4      51.4      10.2     14.9    19.9
Ton-km (10 )           11.7       14.8      17.7       6.0      8.9    11.9
Average haul (km)    321         333       344       590      595     600
3.   Petroleum Products
The Bolivian Railways are moving refined products and liquified gas,
mainly in the Western System. The traffic is made of movements of fuel from
the refineries in Cochabamba and Sucre to the consumption centers (the
majority served by the railroads), of imports of fuel for aviation, and of
liquified gas from Cochabamba to the consumption centers. Between 1968 and
1973 tonnage moved increased from 47,800 to 80,400 tons (13.9% yearly), but,
in 1973, there was a substantial decrease to 55,000 tons. This decrease
is due partly to the displacement of imports of jet fuel to pipelines, the
elimination of imports of liquified asphalt, a decrease in the demand of
aviation gas, and the replacement of rail tanks by truck tanks for movement of
liquified gas as a result of the lack of tractive power in the railroads. It
seems reasonable to take a tonnage of 65,000 tons in 1973 as a base for
projection on the Western System. Taking a rate of increase of 6.4% a
year, corresponding to the growth in production of refined petroleum product
between 1967 and 1973, and assuming a slight increase in the average distance
to 290 km in 1977 and to 300 km in 1980, the traffic in the Western System
would be as follows:



ANNEX 14
Page 4
1973       1977        1980
Tons (in '000)                       55          83.3       100.3
Ton-km (in million)                  15.7        24.2        30.1
Average haul (km)                   285         290         300
4.   Cement
The cement factories in Bolivia are located in Viacha, Sucre and
in the vicinity of Cochabamba. The last factory was completed in late 1972
and resulted in the termination of cement imports to Bolivia. In 1973,
Bolivia exported about 6,000 tons of cement with the bulk of exports (4,000
tons) to Chile. The main transport by rail is from the Cochabamba area to
La Paz on the Western System, while tran.sport to the east is carried by
trucks due to the lack of rail connections. While local transport should grow
only moderately at about 6% annually, further proiress in exports of 1,000 tons
annually is likely, which will also result in an increase of the average haul
by the railways. The forecast for cement traffic on the Western System is
as follows:
1973       1977        1980
Tons (in '000)                  14.7        19.5       25.1
Ton-km (in million)              5.8         7.9        10.6
Average haul (in km)           395        405         422
5.   Wood
Bolivia is rich in wood resources, the greatest potential being in
the area of eastern Bolivia, which exported about 50,000 tons in 1973 compared
to about 30,000 tons in 1971 and 1972, mainly from the Santa Cruz area.
Bolivia expects to export over 60,000 tons of wood in 1974 and over 110,000
tons in 1980. For this analysis, an estimate of 95,000 tons for 1980 was
taken, assuming that all wood is transported to Argentina. Growth between
1973 and 1980 is assumed to be at a constant rate (6.8% ). On the Western
System, all traffic is internal, mainly from the Cochabamba area to the
various mines. This traffic averaged 23,400 tons between 1969 and 1973, showing
a slight tendency to decrease. The main reason for the stagnation and decrease
was the lack of rail cars to serve this traffic adequately. It is reasonable
to assume that this deficiency will be corrected in the future. On the other
hand, the improvement in the road between Cochabamba and Oruro will increase
competition for this traffic. We assume for this traffic a rate of increase
of 3% annually, inferior in 1.4% to the rate of increase of the internal market
of wood between 1969 and 1973. On the Western System, we assume that the
average haul remains the same as in 1973; on the Eastern System, we assume an
increase in average haul to reach a level of 515 km in 1977 and 1980.



ANNEX Ji
Page 5
Western System             Eastern System
1973     1977    1980    1973    1977       1980
Tons ('000)                22.3      25.1    27.4    60.1    78.0       95.0
Ton-km (in million)         6.9       7.8     8.5    29.5    40.2       48.9
Average haul (km)         310       310     310      490     515       515
6.   Chemical Products
The volume produced by the chemical industry has increased at 9.4%
a year between the triennium 1966-1968 and 1969-1971.  Rail transport of these
products has increased substantially during the last three years (41% annually).
This sector is likely to remain quite dynamic in the future. The development
of the rubber industry, of metal refining and treatment of byproducts (e.g.
the zinc and copper refining plant at Calacoto, expected to produce approximately
50,000 tons of sulphuric acid by 1977-1978, and the expected construction, in
the last years of the decade, of the Uyuni Salt Complex) will generate substan-
tial amounts of traffic. In the projection, we have assumed a yearly increase
in rail tonnage of 20% to 1977 and a more conservative rate of 10% a year from
1978 to 1980. Average haul is expected to increase from the level of 241 km
in 1973 to 300 km in 1980, still below the average distance observed in 1971
and 1972. The expected traffic for the Western System is summarized below:
1973       1977        1980
3
Tons (10 )                      32.3       67.0        73.7
Ton-km (10 )                     7.8       18.1        20.7
Average haul (in km)          241         270         281
7.   Lime and Gypsum
The production of lime and gypsum evolves together with the activity
of the construction industry. Therefore, a growth rate of 6% has been assumed,
equivalent to the growth rate for cement and other construction materials
mentioned in this analysis. This transport is limited to the Western System
because the requirements of eastern Bolivia are satisfied by road transport,
since the sources of supply are in the West.
8.   Sugar
Sugar production in Bolivia is concentrated in the areas of Santa
Cruz in the east and Bermejo in the south.  Total production and consumption
of sugar are summarized below:



ANNEX 14
Page 6
------- Tons (10 3)------------
1971              1972               1973
Production in Santa Cruz             67.7             101.2              141.9
Production in Benmejo                17.4              21.5                31.6
Total production                85.1             122.7              173.5
Total consumption              116.9             123.9              132.3
Surplus (deficit)        (31.8)             ( 1.2)              41.2
Exports                    10.3               _                 41.9
Imports                   40.0               -                    -
Stock variations          -2.1              -1.2                -0.7
The recent trend of large increases in production is expected to
continue both as a result of the increase in sugar prices in world markets and
of the existing plans to increase refining capacity. The Government agency in
charge of sugar production (CNECA) foresees a doubling of output by 1978. In
this projection, we assume conservatively total exports of 118,000 tons by
1980. A decrease in rail transport of sugar for the internal market, from
7,300 to 5,000 tons is also assumed.
The principal areas of expanded production will be Santa Cruz and
Alto Beni. Exports are now made mainly via the Western System to the Pacific.
It is expected that, in the future, the Eastern System will have a greater
participation in this traffic, with exports via Argentina. Present average
haul on the Western System is expected to remain the same, while average haul
on the Eastern System is expected to reach 539 km by 1977. Thus, sugar
traffic forecast is as follows:
Western System          Eastern System
1973     1977    1980  1973    1977       1980
3
Tons (10 )                  48.5      52.6    52.6   0.7    28.3       70.8
Ton-km (10 )                31.6      34.3    34.3   0.3    15.2       38.2
Average haul (km)          652       652     652   429      539       539
9.   Wheat and Flour
Bolivia has been importing annually about 220,000 tons of wheat
equivalent (1 ton wheat = G.72 ton flour), and estimates made by the Bolivia
National Institute for Wheat project the same requirements for the foreseeable
future. These import requirements are calculated assuming a 15% growth of
national production, which is concentrated mainly in Potosi, Cochabamba,
Tarija and Santa Cruz. Thus, transport of wheat and flour by rail was assumed



ANNEX 14
Page 7
to stay constant at its 1972 level, a year in which about 240,000 tons of wheat
equivalent (136,000 tons of flour and 52,000 tons of wheat) were transported.
10. Other Construction Materials, Eastern System
For the projection of traffic on the Eastern System, the tonnage
moved of cement and other construction materials was assumed to grow at the
same yearly rate as iron and steel for construction. Average haul is
assumed to remain at the same level as in 1973.
11. Cattle
Cattle raising takes place mainly in the Chaco (Department of
Tarija) and in Santa Cruz. Imports were small and have disappeared since
exports are now developing, the main potential markets being Brazil, Chile
and Peru. Rail transport of cattle takes place mainly in the Eastern Region.
The projection assumes a growth rate of 2.5% a year between the average
transported in the triennium 1971-1973 and 1977 and a rate of 3.0% between
this triennium and 1980. Average haul is expected to increase from 381 km in
1973 to 462 in 1980.
12. Cotton
Cotton, cultivated mainly in the area of Santa Cruz, has in recent
years been the most dynamic new export development. The cultivated area has
expanded from 5,000 hectares in 1967-1968 to 63,000 in 1973-1974 at a yearly
rate of 52.5%. Exports increased from a level of 600 tons in 1968 to 31,500
tons in 1973. This fast increase in production and exports is not expected
to continue in the future. World prices, which more than doubled between
1970 and 1973, decreased substantially in 1974. As a result, it is becoming
much less interesting to incorporate new land for this crop, especially
considering the higher attraction of alternatives like sugar. It is expected
that tonnage moved will increase at 5% a year. Average haul is expected to
remain constant at the 1973 level.
13. Other Products
Western System
Tonnage moved has decreased at a rate of 36.8% a year, from 389,000
tons in 1971 to 155,000 in 1973. The decrease is fairly coitsistent in the
various items with some few exceptions such as mining materials and electrical
items. The decrease in ton-km transported is smaller, but still substantial,
15.6% a year. Average haul has increased from 190 km in 1971 to 338 km in 1973.
The transport of "other" products has suffered most from the deterioration in
railway services resulting from the lack of equipment and the increased compe-
tition of road transport. It is expected that, with the improvement in rail
services, the rate of decrease in tonnage moved will be reduced substantially,
while ton-km are going to experience a slight increase as average hauls keep
growing. It should be considered that the short haul movements have already



ANNEX 4
Page 8
been captured by trucks and that the decrease of the last years has been greater
for those products in which the railroad has more problems in competing.
In the projection, it has been assumed that tonnage will decrease at 4.4% a
year, while average haul will increase from 338 km in 1973 to 488 km in 1980.
The development of traffic is expected to be as follows:
1973       1977        1980
Tons (10 )                               155.3      129.7       113.3
Ton-km (10 )                              52.5       54.1        55.3
Average haul (km)                        338        417         488
Eastern System
On the Eastern System, instead of a decrease in tonnage, there are
substantial increases. A sample of 20 articles shows an increase of 26%
between 1972 and 1973. During the first semester of 1974, there was an
increase of 18% with respect to the same semester of 1973. In the projection,
a conservative rate of 6% increase a year has been assumed, and it was also
assumed that the average haul will increase from its level of 516 in 1973 to
530 in 1980. The development of traffic is expected to be as follows:
1973       1977        1980
Tons (10 )                                80.8      102.0       121.5
Ton-km (10 )                              41.7       53.4        64.4
Average haul (km)                        516        524         530
February 1975



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Operating Accounts 1975 to 1979
Notes and Assumptions
1.   Traffic
Increases in freight traffic are taken from mission forecasts.
Since the composition of traffic is showing variations during 1975 to 1980,
the revenue forecast is calculated for various commodities separately for the
Western and Eastern Systems of ENFE. For passenger service, a similar
procedure is adopted. Detailed calculations are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of
this annex.
2.   Tariffs and Revenues
Revenues for 1975 to 1979 are forecast based on freight tariff in-
creases implemented by ENFE on January 15, 1975 as follows:
(a) 67.96% increase in general cargo and minerals.
(b) 67.96% increase followed by another 52.16% on basic
food commodities.
No increase was assumed in passenger fares.
3.   Average Revenue per Unit-km
Average revenue has been calculated for freight on a per ton-km
basis for each major commodity, and for passengers on a per pass-km basis
for ferrobuses and conventional trains separately (Tables 1 and 2 of this
annex). Revenues for 1973 have been increased to show a full year's effect
by applying approved increases in November 1973 and February 1974. These
revenues were then divided by 1973 ton-km and pass-km. The resulting average
revenue per unit-km was applied to the forecast traffic of 1975 to 1979. These
revenues were then increased by the new tariff raise mentioned in item 2
above. Since the costs were estimated in terms of 1974 constant dollars while
revenues in terms of early 1975 dollars, a minor adjustment was made in
revenues to compensate for the difference in dates.
4.   Costs
(a) Due to the installation of a new accounting system from
January 1974, new headings are used for operating costs.
However, for comparison purposes, these costs are also
shown under the old headings at the bottom of the page.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(b) Constant prices
Revenues and costs are expressed in the constant prices
(1974 level), except that an estimated 200% increase in
diesel fuel, to be effective around the middle of 1975, was
incorporated into the forecast. It is also assumed that
1975 revenues will absorb any increase in labor cost in
that year.
(c) Operating Expenses
The results of the long-run variable cost studies conducted
by SOFRERAIL experts were used in forecasting operating
costs. Variable costs were then related to traffic forecast.
The costs were then adjusted with the following factors:
(i) Labor
It is assumed that variable labor costs would increase
in proportion to traffic increases. The regular annual
bonuses due every year were calculated and added to
regular salaries. It is also assumed that savings in
labor costs due to retirements of over-age staff will be
passed as selective improvements to workers' salaries.
(ii) Material and Other Working Costs
Based on information supplied by ENFE, it is assumed
that diesel fuel costs will go up by 200% from the
middle of 1975. The total fuel costs were directly
related to the increase in traffic. An adjustment was
made, however, to the extent that the fuel and locomotive
costs would decline with increased dieselization beginning
1978.
(iii) Rented Freight Cars
Based on information supplied by ENFE that the rental
rates will go up in early 1975, it is assumed that the
annual rental cost of freight cars from Brazil, Argentina
and Chile (particularly for the Eastern System) will
be increased, but that, from 1977, it will start de-
creasing as new freight cars will be bought by ENFE under
the new Investment Plan.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(iv)  Depreciation
Depreciation pertaining to the proposed Investment Plan
is added to current depreciation costs. Also, since
revaluation of existing assets was expected to be completed
and incorporated into the 1975 balance sheet, an estimated
extra allowance is added to the total depreciation.
(v)  Contractors
There is a fixed cost every year because repetitive road
maintenance work will be done annually on certain lines
of the railway.
May 1975



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL, OF A SECOND RAIWAY PSOJICT
Fr.ight Revesee For-a.t 1975   1979
(t.   b 6 gllion)
1975                       1961977                                                1978197
1973           1973           1973          Revenue.         1974 R.venue.         Before        After        Befo-e        After        Before         After        Befor         After        Before         After_
Ten-k.         Act,al      Noenlijed           T.o-km           Boned on            T-riff        T-riff       T-riff        Tariff        Tariff       Tariff        Teriff        T.riff        Tariff        Tariff
indli ).    Revasee         Revenue.       fnaenMle.d)        1973 Traffic        ioee Increase inncreaso i          ncrease    I         ncrenee Increa     se increase    I      nc_r.e L..eoB  increase    increase
Ind..tri.1 Produte
1.  Minoral                                        53.1            30.511       39.1             0.717              37.2                40.6         67.2          41.2         69.2          41.8          70.2          42.3          71.0         42.9          72.0
2.  Ieen nod Steel for CeBetrution                 11.7             4.680        8.0             0.684               7.8                 9.9         14.7          10.1          16.9         10,1          17.0          17.7          19.0         11.5          19.3
5.  Patraeol-  prodate                             15.7             9.915       16.1             1.025              15.7                21.          36.1          23.2          39.1         24.           41.6          26.7         44.9          29.0          4898
4.  Cemnt5.                                                         I:.92        3.1             0.534                3.0                3.5,          5.4          3.0           0.4          4.2            7.0          4.7           7*9           7.2          0.7
S.  W  ed                                           6.9             2.366        3.9             0.565               3.                  4.1          6.B           4.3           7.2          4.4           7.4           4*3           7.3          4.9            0.1
6.  Chemical Product.                 ~~~~            ~~~7.8  3.028  4.9            0.628               4.8                 7.5         12.4           9.3          15.6         11.4          19.2          13.0          21.9          14i8         24.9
7.  .- &.d Gype-                      ~~~~3.9         0.860         1.6             0.410               1.6                 1.9          3.1           2.0          3.3           2.2           3.7           2.4          4.0           2.6           4.3
Sebtatal;                                194.9            3342         7.                .2                 5989.1                         145.7          9.           13.7          98.9    _ 166.1             0415.                     10.8          186.1
Axricelt.ral Produet
8.  0u6ar                                          31.6             8.539       14.4             0.455               8.5                15.6         25.0          15.6          76.2         15.6          76.2          15.6          26.2          15.6         26.2
9.  Flour                                          36.2            11.491       11.5             0.317              11.3                13.7         34.5          13.7          35.0         13.3          35.0          13.7          35.8          13.7         35.0
10.  Vhost                                          16.7             4.918        4.5             0.269               4.5                 7.9         19.9           7.9          20.2           7.9         28.2           7.9          29.2           7.9         20.2
S.bt.ta1                                 945             24.538       _0.4              0.359              24.5                                              2___ 8..  42.1.4$Th.37.237.24
Other Products
11.  Food                                           16.0             3.380        3.              0343                 5.                 3.6         14.            56           14.3           37          14.6           5.7          14.6           5.7          14.6
12.    neel3.                                                       22.900       36.5             1.00                 5.:6              56.9         61.           37.3          62.6          37.:6         63.1         37.9          63.           3636.
Sobtotal                      52.~     ~     ~~~~~~~~5 28.411  42.0                               .1 ___Z. 9                                                 6954l43.3.77.7.4342  773.
TOTAL WB5TU951 NqjTWI5K                             241.9           1641          4810623936,6                                                        301.1         174.0         316.0         179.4         323.2        105.0         334.7         191.9         346.3
EASTERN 6U1gr8L
Ind.strie1 Produt.
1.  Iro -    d Steel for Conetr-tion                6.0             2.629        4.3             0.717               4.2                 5.2          8.6           5.0           9.7           6.4         10.7           7.8          11.9           7.7          12.9
2.  WBond                                          29.3       ___.0298           32049                                291.                           26.1          16.9          28.4          19.0         30.2          19.2          32.2          20.5          34.4
Sabtotal                                 35.5            10o.65 6      17 .3            0.493               17.1               21.0         34.7          72.7 -       34.1          -24.4         40.9          26.2          44.0          28.2          47.3
Aaricn1turel Produot
S.  Supxr                                           0.3             0.69         0.1             0.333                0.1                2.0           3.3          3.7           6.2           3.1           8.7          6.4          10.7          10.5          17.3
4.  Floor                                           5.4             1.674        1.7             0.314                1.7                1.7           4.2          1.7           4.2           1.7    .     -4.2.          1.7          4.2           1.7           4.2
5.  Cerle4.0                                                        1.533        2.3             0.625                2.5                2.8          4.6           2.9           4.9           3.1           5.2          3.3           3.3           3.4           5.7
6.  Cotton                           ~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~20.3  7.150  11.6       .9                11.5               13.0          21.3         13.7          23.0          14.3          74.8          15.7          26.4          15.7         26.4
Subtotal                                  30.0           10.447        16.1             0.537              15.8                19.3         33.6          22.0          38. 3        24.2          42.1          27.1          46.8          31.1          53.6
Other ~Praduet
6.  Food                              ~~~~            ~~~~~~       ~~~~3.  .400  1.4  036               1.4                 1.4          3.5           14            3.6           15           3.            1.6           4.1           1.7           4.3
2.Gene                                                                                                                                              4                  ral  45.17 -21.:100  34.7  00.759  33.9  313.13.53.  59.3  37.2  6.3986942370
S.btota1                                 49.352.7                      36.1             0.729               33.2               34.4         59.0          36.7          62.9         38.7          66.3          41.4          70.0          44.0          75.3
TOTAL EASTERN  aNEWORK1                             115.8_        _43.579           970666.                                               74.9         126.3         91.4         139.3          87.3         149.3          94.7        161.7         153.3         176.2
GRAN9D TOTAL                                        369              50.00O      217.8             0.628              207.6              242.3      _ 427.4          255.4        455.5         266.7         474.3         27.         _     .   __295.2            522.5
Adjwted to 1974 doll-                                                                                           ~~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~412.0  4.32.7     450O.8                      47n.6                      493.6
1/  1973 Re-en.. mere .oenelled by spplying rate i-oeaeee to sho  foIl year'. effect.
SO 5RCB:  ENIFE Cod Mi.eioo Entloeta 



BOLIVIA
APPRAIfAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Revenue Forecast for 1975 to 1979
(in $b million)
1973       1973        1973
Pass. km    Actual   Normalized  Rev. per        1975        1976        1977        1978       1979
(million)   Revenue   Revenue    pass. km    Revenue    Revenue    Revenue    Revenue    Revenue
WESTERN NETWORK
Railcarg            34.0        4.1        6.0        0.176        8.8        10.0        10.0        11.4        12.3
Trains             148.0       15.4       22.6       0.152        23.6        24.0        26.5        26.1       26.3
Total          182.0        19.5       28.6       0.157        32.4        34.0        36.5       37.5        38.6
EASTERN NETWORK
Railcars            11.0        2.0        2.9        0.263        4.2         5.8         7.9         8.4         8.9
Trains              76.0        8.7       12.7       0.167        13.0        13.5        14.2        14.7       15.2
Total           87.0        10.7       15.6       0.179        17.2        19.3        22.1       23.1        24.1
GRAND TOTAL          269.0       30.2       44.2        0,164       49.6        53.3        58.6        60.6        62.7
Source:  EaFE and Mission Estimate
February 1975



BOLIVIA
BOLIVIAN RAILWAYS FREIGHT TRAFFIC DENSITY (1969)
(in ton-km per line-krn)
EL ALTO
)ERU       VIACHA      LA-PAZ
BRAZIL
COCHABAMBA
CHAHANA        ) _    \                         SANTA CRUZ
*  AIQUILE
SUCRE *    * TARABUCO                                                              RUMBA
X        X    ~                  ~ ~~/       I                                                     /OUB
RIO MULATO     -          POTOSI
CHILE                                  NI
OLLAGUE                       UPIZA
\   < F     \  VILLAZON  |YACU MA 1   SCALE:  (I thousands of ton-Km per linem-Km)
ARGENTINA                                              20
WrdBa.k-6359128)



BOLIVIA
BOLIVIAN RAILWAYS
ORGANIZATION CHART
|BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
I~~~~~                           INTRA
'SECRETARIAL  |1 -                         -        AUDITOR
.
GENERAL MANAGER
MANAGDMENTIS                                          LEM,NI    I
SECRETARIAI     D                                    ADVISOR 
RETABILITATION AND                ACCHNIN         A  ADVSR
INVESTMRAIT MANAGER                 TIII NICALAW  IDV                           N
OPERATIONS MANAGER                                                ADMINISTRAT]IVE MANAGER |
| AREA      1
I NSPECTO;]|                                              MA2NAGEMENT
I    ASTERN SYSTEM    I
DEPATMEN                        I .RAI ,li    TLCMNICI.            ,1  ,              AIO,NS,1
| OPERATIONS CHIEF                                              |Ak%TINISTRAT S\7 CHIIEF   |
CTION   WORKSHOPS    ITRAFFI  ND|WAY WORKS &  1  A   UTN,IrIDERA                              UPLIE 1ICMRCAI
DIVISION    DIVISION      JOPERA ION DIV !TEEM  DIo||ISION                      RELAT. DIV, LoIVSO            I  D E        J






PA CI/FI/C   OCEAN
--W-        +4,>.    t     X          w      0 E      ,( 
I '.  T ay = c i                           T t      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c 
ii,           C    i  t
3n '       00?                   o b
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
-v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  111K 
0c    - 96  >
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r4c



