Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cg4 /9' -6 _ QJ/
Report No. 7249-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 16, 1988
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Tbis document mas a restlcted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the perfomnimaoe of
their official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be dLsclosed without World Bank authodzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEPÎTS
Curroncy Unit m Guineon Franc (CF)
t%Stl1. O OF 618
US8l.28S6ô = SOR l
FISCAL YEAR
January       c --   Doco ber 81
SYSTEU OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 mater (a)               u      8.28 tfet (ft)
1 squaer aster (<2)       =      10.76 square tfet (aq ft)
1 cublc aster (a")        *      86.8 cublc feet (cu ft)
1 kileeter (ka)          =      0.82 eile (ai)
1 square kilofeter (ko2)  *      0.89 square aile (xq ml)
1 *etric ton (t)                 2,20S poundx (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS
Items      Enplish                                    French
adt        average dxTly traffic                      Trafic journalier moyen
AfDB       Afrlcan Dev-lopment Bank                   Banque Africaine de Développement
BADEA      Arob Bank for Economlc Dev-lopent          Banque Arabe de Développement Economlque en Afrlque
ln Afrtea
CCOE       French Bilateral Fund                      Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
DGT        Central Dlactorate for Transport           Direction G6nérale aux Transports
DOlTP      Cneral Directorate for Public Works        Direction Générale aux Travaux Publics
FAC        French Bliateral Assiotance                Fond Aide et Coopération
GTZ        Socloty for TechnTcal Cooperation          Soclité pour la Coopération Technique,
Federal Republlc of CGrmny                 République Fédérale d'Alloagne
KfW        Geraan BTlateral Aid Agency                Agence Alleaxnde Blatérale d'Aide au Développement
MARA       Mlnistry of Agriculture end Ani-al         Minlatère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources
Resource                                   Anls les
MTTP       Minlstry of Transport end Public Works    Mlnlstre des Transporte et des Travaux Publiles
ONCFG      Guinean Ralilwy Company                    Office NatTonal du Chemin de fer de Gui6e
PAC        Port Authorlty of Conakry                  Port Autonome de Conakry
USAIO      United States Agency for Internatlonal
Developent



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA          w     DR. JAL L L bJIL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE                   ..                       i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....... ................                     il
I.    INTRODUCTION ................................................      1
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........................................      2
A.  The Transport System ...................................       2
B.  Roads and Road Transport ................................      2
C.  .ailways and Rail Transport ...................                2
D. Ports and Shipping ...... .................                     3
E.  Airports and Civil Aviation ...............                    3
F.  Transport Sector Administration .................              4
G.  Transport Sector Investment ...................                5
H.  Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector .... ......     5
III.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ....... ................                     6
A.  The Network  .............................................     6
B.  Road Construction and Maintenance Activities ............      7
C.  Road Planning and Policy Framework ......................      7
D.  Road Administration ......      ...............................    10
E.  Traffic and Road Transport        ..............................   il
F.  Construction Industry              . ........    il
G.  Highway Engineering Road and Construction         ...    12
IV.   THE PROJECT .................................................   12
A.  Objectives ...... . ................    ........................   12
B. Description                 ....12
C. Cost Estimate...                                               15
D. Implementation. . .....                                        16
E. Procurement                   . . .. 17
F.  Financing and Disbursements         .. .          .18
G. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting        ....19
H.  Impact on Environment and Employment....                      19
This report was prepared by Messrs. Jean-Claude Sallier (Task Manager),
Henri Beenhakker (Principal Transport Economist), and John Schwartz (Senior
Project Officer), on the basis of an appraisal mission in January 1988.
Typing vas done by Ms. Nga Nguyen.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients onby in the performancen
|of their of ficiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Worid Bank authorization.|



Table of Contents (continued)
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...........................................   20
A.  The Paved Road Component .............. .. ................   20
B.  The Spot Improvement Component .....   .....................   21
C.  Project Beneficiaries ....................................   21
D.  Project Risks ............................. * ......... .    21
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......  ................    22
ANNEXES
2-1  Administration of Public Works
2-2  Public Investment Program (87-89); Transport Sector
3-1  National Highway Network
3-2  Highway Network Characteristics
3-3  Ongoing Construction/Maintenance Activities
3-4  Road Network Development Policy
3-5  Characteristics of the Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
3-6  Price Structure of Petroleum Products
3-7  Local Investment and Maintenance Costs (Routine and Periodic) - Ten-Year
Average
4-1  Dubreka-Kolaboui Road
4-2  Kouroussa-Kankan Road
4-3  Spot Improvement Component
4-4  Routine Maintenance Component
4-5  Consulting Services
4-6  Detailed Cost Estimate
4-7  Implementation Schedule
4-8  Financing Plan
4-9  Schedule of IDA Disbursements
5-1  Agricultural Production in Zone of Influence of Dubreka-Kolaboui Road
5-2  Agricultural Production in Zone of Influence of Mamou-Kankan Road
MAP: IBRD 21019



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Guinea has undertaken an ambitious program of
economic reform aimed at reversing the difficult situation it inherited
from the First Republic. Under the ongoing Structural Adjustment Program,
the Government aims at decontrolling and liberalizing economic activity,
encouraging private sector participation, reducing direct state involvement
in productive and service sector activities, and improving macro-economic
management through major institutional reforms. The Government, with
technical assistance from IDA, has begun the process of public sector
disengagement from industrial and commercial activities in order to reduce
inflated civil service rolls and eliminate substantial state subsidies.
Re-establishing reasonably dependable communications among the main
production, consumption and export centers, and opening up Guinea's rich
hinterland are part of the requirements for the success of Guinea's
structural adjustment program.
1.02     After 25 years of neglect, Guineats transport sector is among the
least efficient in the region and one of the main obstacles to accelerate
development. Most of the transport infrastructure is barely operable. The
Government has accorded the highest priority to the creation of a sound
policy framework and the re-establishment of essential transport services.
In support of this strategy, the Government's investment program focuses on
the elimination of four major bottlenecks: (i) the heavily deteriorated
road system; (ii) the serious congestion in the port of Conakry; (iii) the
unreliable and unsafe air transport system; and (iv) the difficulties of
transforming a transport industry historically dominated by inefficient
parastatals into an efficient private service industry. IDA, the African
Development Bank (AfDB), French bilateral aid (FAC and CCCE), German
bilateral aid (GTZ and KfW), the Saudi Fund for Development, the Islamic
Development Fund, the OPEC Fund and the Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA), have been supporting the Government's strategy through a
series of projects financing priority investments and supporting reform
measures in the transport sector. The Transport Sector Project (Cr.
1815-GUI) signed in August 1987 and co-financed by AfDB, GTZ, KfW and FAC,
vas designed to ensure the establishment of an appropriate sector policy
framework and to cover the essential needs of the ports and aviation sub-
sectors. It vas envisaged at the time that important additional
investments vere required in the road sub-sector, but that these needed
further preparatory work. Accordingly, the proposed project will help
finance these urgently needed investments. It also constitutes the initial
phase of a long term investment program in the road sub-sector.



- 2 -
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Transport System
2.01     Guinea has a land area of 246,000 km2 and a population estimated
at about 5.8 million, which grows at the rate of 2.8Z per year. About 75Z
of the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agriculture for
their livelihood. Heavy rainfall and high mountain ranges make transport
infrastructure difficult to build and maintain, and costly to operate.
2.02     When the First Republic ended in April 1984, Guinea was left with
some of the most rundown infrastructure and least efficient transport
operations in Africa. The efforts made under the First and Second Highway
Projects (para. 2.15) were limited to priority road sections and could not
prevent the overall deterioration of the road network as maintenance was
generally neglected throughout the country (para. 3.04). Today, a
classified road system of some 14,000 km has shrunk to about 10,700 km of
which 1,300 km are paved roads in poor condition, 4,400 km are unpaved
roads in very poor condition, and 5,000 km are barely passable rural
tracks.  The country's estimated fleet of 27,000 vehicles is among the
smallest and most overaged of the region. The rail system tctals 1,047 km,
comprising three mining railways (385 km) operating satisfactorily, and a
deteriorated public railway linking Conakry to Kankan (662 km) which has
virtually ceased to function. Guinea has two major deep-water porte: one
in Conakry serving commercial and mining traffic, and one almost
exclusively bauxite-related in Kamsar. The international airport in
Conakry has been modernized recently but still lacks equipment to ensure
safe operation in conditions of poor visibility; nine secondary airfields
are marginally operab±a with substandard air safety and navigation
equipment. The national carrier's (Air Guinea) financial situation is
precarious and provides a poor transport service.
2.03     The present capacity of all transport modes is insufficient to
meet current levels of demand, much less to serve the increased demand
expected as economic reform measures take hold and productive sector
activities revive. Rehabilitation and maintenance of core infrastructure
and restructuring of sector agencies form the center of Governnent's near
and medium-term strategy. The ongoing Third Highway Profect (Cr. 1457
GUI), the already completed Conakry Port Project (Cr. 1382-GUI) and the
Transport Sector Project (Cr. 1815-GUI) have begun and strengthened the
Government's reconstruction efforts, but much more is needed in
infrastructure rehabilitation.
B.   Roads and Road Transport
2.04     The road sub-sector and its administration are discussed in detail
in Chapter III.
C.   Railways and Rail Transport
2.05     Office National du Chemin de Fer Guineen (ONCFG) is the parastatal
responsible for running the Conakry-Kankan public railroad constructed
before World War I. Services have been interrupted for several months on a



-3-
number of occasions and ONCFG's financial situation ls dismal, with
revenues not even covering operating expenses. Under the Transport Sector
Project, it has been agreed with the Government to severely limit
investments to those required for clear safety reasons, and to keep budget
transfers covering operational expenditures from exceeding present low
levels. The road investments to be carried out under the proposed project
will help improve overland transport services to the areas currently served
by the railway.
D.   Ports and ShipDinR
2.06     The port of Kamsar, constructed as part of the Bank-financed Boké
Bauxite Project, has been in operation since 1975.  It  currently handles
about 11.3 million tons of bauxite exports annually and a small amount of
imports for the account of the mine.  Conakry, the main commercial port,
handles all general cargo :imports and exports, fuel and clinker imports, as
vell as bauxite (3 million tpy) and alumina (500,000 tpy) exports. General
merchandise imports incressed from 215,000t in 1983 to 586,000t in 1987, an
increase of about 1731, reflecting both the liberalization of the Guinean
economy since mid-1984 and improvements in port installations and
operations financed under the satisfactorily implemented Conakry Port
Project (1382-GUI). To handle the anticipated growth in traffic, the
Transport Sector Project will assist in expanding the capacity of Conakry
Port and further improving its operational efficiency.
2.07     The Port Autonome de Conakry (PAC), established in 1982, has
evolved into a credible managing entity with foreign technical assistance
financed by GTZ. PAC's financial performance has been on the whole
satisfactory; a new tariff structure has been introduced in connection with
the Transport Sector Project. Privatization of port-associated services
replacing inefficient state monopolies is progressing satisfactorily.
2.08     Guinea's involvement in shipping is currently limited to part
ownership of a joint-venture company, GUINOMAR, set up with Norwegian
partners (Torvald Klaveness) in 1979 to handle some four million tons of
bauxite shipments annually from Kamsar.  The company at present owns only
one ore-carrier (65,000 tdw) and charters another eleven, at very favorable
rates due to today's depressed shipping markets. Coastal shipp5ng is
limited to smail-scale barter trade of little importance, with annual
volumes handled less than 4,000 tons. It may, however, grow in importance
as agricultural production revives. River transport is possible for about
four monthe during and after the rainy season on the Milo (Kankan-Siguiri)
and Niger (Kouroussa-Siguiri-Bamako) rivers; it is used mainly to transport
agricultural products over short distances with traditional river barges.
E.   Airports and Civil Aviation
2.09     Guinea has ten airports:  an international airport at Conakry, and
nine domestic airfielde of which three--in Faranah, Labé and Kankan--have
paved runways. The existing secondary airfields provide good coverage of
the country; however, the runways of the aforementioned three domestic
airports are in such poor condition that, like the laterite airfields, they
can accormodate only short take-off and landing (STOL) aircraft.
International air passenger traffic has increased from a modest level of



around 10.000 passengers p.a. in the early 1980s to 118,000 in 1983 and to
229,000 in 1986.  In contrast, domestic air passenger traffic, vhich had
attained 90,000 passengers p.a. in the early 19809 (including about 40Z
Government officials flying free of charge), dropped to about 28,000 in
1986, as a result of the deterioration of the airports and the precarious
condition of the national carrier, Air Guinée.
2.10     Faced with mounting losses, the Government requested in 1985 a
study aimed at restructuring Air Guinée. The study recommended
transforming Air Guinée into a new company limited to domestic services, at
lesst for the initial years. To stem foreign exchange losses, the
Government suspended all international operations in 1986 and sold two of
its three jet planes. Domestic services are provided with a DHC-7STOL
aircraft obtained as a grant from the Canadian Government. A second study
of Air Guinde undertaken during preparation of the Transport Sector Project
in 1986/1987 developed definitive proposals for reorganizing the company.
The recommendations of the study vill be implemented beginning June 30,
1988 following a detailed timetable agreed under the Transport Project.
2.11     A significant improvement of air transport operation is expected
to occur under the Transport Sector Project which provides financing for
technical assistance, studies, a training program, supply of critically
needed equipment and civil vorks. It vas also agreed with Government that
important actions vould be taken to reorganize the administration of the
sub-sector through the creation of a new Air Navigation Agency (ANA) by
June 30, 1988. ANA would be responsible for maintaining normal operations
and safe conditions at Conakry and secondary airports.
F.   Transport Sector Administration
2.12     In january 1988, the former Ministry of Equipment and Urbanism vas
restructured and divided into two ministries. Administration of the
transport sector is nov the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works (MTTP) and more particularly of its two General Directorates
(a) the General Directorate for Transport (Direction Générale aux
Transports, DGT) which is responsible for the for._ lation and monitoring of
sactor policies, programs and regulations covering public and private
sector organizations, vehicle licensing and registration, road safety, and
for overseeing public sector agencies in ports, shipping, air transport,
road transport and railways; and (b) the General Directorate for Public
Works (Direction Générale aux Travaux Publics, DGTP), which deals with the
planning, programming, construction and maintenance of highways, as vell as
airfield infrastructure. DGTP carries out these responsibilities through
its central services and its four regional directorates and 36 sub-
divis ons, and through the Road Project Office (Office du Projet Routier,
OPR), a:' autonomous entity responsible for road maintenance and supervised
by DGTP. The Secretariat of State for Commerce (Secrétariat d'Etat au
Commerce, SEC) under the Ministry of Finance and Economy oversees the
company responsible for the supply and distribution of fuel, while the
Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation (Ministère du Plan et de la
Coopération Internationale, MPCI) allocates investment resources to the
sector.



- 5 -
2.13     DGTP and DGT have inherited large numbers of inadequately
qualified staff, including many locally-trained civil and mechanical
engineers and technicians, as vell as economists and accountantr.
Streamlining administrative structures is therefore a high priority. To
help accomplish tnis restructuring, organizational studies of both DGTP and
DGT vere completed under a Transport Plan Study being carried out as part
of the Third Hig'.way Project. On the institutional reform and manpower
development fronts, the Transport Sector Project supports training and
technical assistance to transform MTTP into an organization capable of
formulating and monitoring sector policy as vell as planning, preparing and
supervising investment and maintenance programs and projects. The full
implementation of the reorganization vas scheduled under the '?ransport
Sector Project to be carried out by October 1988. However, the January
1988 government reshuffle and adminiitrative restructuration delayed the
implementation of the reorganization by several months. Annex 2.1 provides
details of the envisaged reorganization of DGTP. Promulgation of the new
organizational structure of DGTP is a conditjon of credit effectiveness.
G.   Transport Sector Investment
2.14     A three-year Public Investment Program (PIP) has been established
for 1987-89 vith technical assistance financed under IDA Credit 1559-GUI.
Given the massive and urgent needs for transport infrastructure
rehabilitation, the 1987-89 PIP 1or the transport sector (Annex 2.2)
currently shows annual average investments of US$60 m equivalent in the
road and road transport sub-sector, US$15 m equivalent in the ports sub-
sector, and US$6 m equivalent ir the aviation sub-sector. 'While
insufficient to meet the overall needs of all sub-sectors, particularly
roads, they are realistic and therefore endorsed by IDA regarding both
financial and administrative constraints. Provided, however, that
financing is found on acceptable terms, and that adequate provisions are
made by Government to ensure correct project implementation (mainly by
contractors) and supervision of vorks, high priority transport sector
investments in Guinea should be allowed to take an increasing share of
public investment over the next decade. On the other hand, to ensure that
nev transport investments and expenditures vill be in accordance vith
strict priorities in the sector, the Government and the Association have
agreed under the Transport Sector Project to review annually by December 31
of each year, (a) the three-year rolling investment and expenditure
programs for the entire transport sector for the period 1989-1994; and (b)
the annual maintenance budgets resulting from these programs, for the
roads, ports, railways and aviation subsectors, submitted by the
Government.   Only projects vith an economic rate of return of at least 10Z
vould be included In the program.
H.   Bank Grour' Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.15     The Bank Group has been among the principal sources of external
financing for transport development in Guinea. Since 1966, it has made
three loans and five credits in the sector. The former (Lns 51-GUI, 1966;
577-GUI 1968 and 766-GUI, 1971; US$75.2 m total) financed the mining town
site at Boké and related port and rail infrastructure for the export of
bauxite from the mining development and vere successfully completed in
1975. The latter have funded the First (Cr. 596-GUI, 1976 US$14 m) and
Second Highvay Projects (Cr. 953-GUI and EEC-33 GUI, 1979 US$17 m) and are



funding the Conakry Port Project (Cr. 1382-GUI, 1983 US$38 m), the Third
Highway Project (Cr. 1457-GUI, 1983, US$73.2 m), and the Transport Sector
Project (Cr. 1815-GUI, US$55 m). The first two highway projects financed
extensive road rehabilitation and maintenance programs. The Pirst Highway
Project was satisfactorily completed in 1980 by a virtually autonomous
project unit, (PCR No. 4358, March 1983). The Second Highway Project was
to achieve a wider institution building impact by incorporating the unit
into the Ministry of Public Works organization.   This objective proved
premature and resulted in diversion of project resources and disappointing
work outputs. Nevertheless, the project was completed in mid-1984 after
strong remedial action, and yielded a satisfactory rate of return (PCR No.
5653, May 1985). The Conakry Port Project has fully realized its physical
objectives and most of its institutional goals.
2.16     The ongoing Third Highway Project was prepared during the previous
regime and designed for a different institutional and economic environnent.
To circumvent political interference and compensate for the ineffectiveness
of the public works administration, an autonomous Road Project Office (OPR)
was created. Following the creation of the Second Republic, this
institutional set-up needed to be adapted to the policy orientation of the
new Government which emphasizes retrenchment of the public sector in favor
of pri-atization. Accordingly, the project has been redesigned to re-
orient OPR's structure towards that of a commercially-based contracting
enterprise. The road rehabilitation and maintenance program under the
Third Highway Project includes the rehabilitation of part of the country's
main paved road network and the maintenance of priority gravel roads. The
Transport Sector Project provides the pclicy framework to ensure efficiency
and effectiveness throughout the sector. In addition, it supports a major
rehabilitation in the ports and civil aviation sub-sectors, and provides
additional funds for strengthening existing paved roads in the country.
III. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A.   The Network
3.01     Guinea has a road network totalling about 10,l 0 km under  DGTP's
jurisdiction. The Fational Road network (Hap IBRD 21019, Annex 3.1) has
recently been defined in connection with the preparation of this project.
It consists of (a) a primary road network of about 4,600 km (of which 1,300
are paved) which connects the main economic center, and most prefectures
among themselves and with the seaports; and (b) a secondary road network of
about 1,500 km that linke isolated remaining prefectures to the primary
network. The Regional (or tertiary) road network of 5,000 km comprises
rural tracks which link sub-prefectures to the primary and secondary
network and provides access to isolated regions. Annex 3-2 shows that in
terms of road density Guinea is one of the worst served countries in West
Africa. Thus, Guinea has merely 4.3 km of roads per 100 km2 and 1.8 km per
1,000 inhabitants, compared to ll..9 km/100 km2 and 2.3 km/1,000 inhabitants
for Ghana, 13.6 km/100 km2 and 6.5 km/1,000 inhabitants for Cameroon, and
14.8 km/100 km2 and 4.8 km/1,000 inhabitants for Côte d'Ivoire.



-7-
3.02     Moreover, the condition of the road network is extremely poir.  As
a result, transports of products such as rice, bananas, and smoked fish
from the coastal area to Conakry and coffee and other agricultural products
from the interior to the capital have either been reduced significantly, or
take place at very high costs.  In some instances these flows have stopped
altogether and large areas of the country have been isolated making
economic exchanges scarce and expensive. These conditions constitute a
major obstacle in the Government'e efforts to develop a productive market-
oriented agriculture sector in the newly liberalized economy. In order to
improve these conditions, several road links (Conakry-Mamou linking the
capital with the center of the country and Mamou-Lebé towards the north)
are being rehabilitated under the Third Highway Project. The road between
Mamou and Kissidougou in the South-east vill be rehabilitated under the
Transport Sector Project. Other main roads such as the coastal track
connecting Conakry with Kolaboui and the Mamou-Kankan section in the
eastern part vill be reconstructed and upgraded under the proposed proje't.
B.   Road Construction and Maintenance Activities
3.03     Over the 1967-87 period, the paved netwcrk increased from 200 km
to 1,300 km corresponding to an average annual increase of about 55 km, or
about one third of the expansion in similar countries of the region. The
only new road vorks undertaken since 1982 have been the construction of
part of the link between Gueckedou and N'zerekore (126 of 280 km) - the
provincial capital of the south-eastern region - financed by the Saudi
Fund, Islamic Development Fund and OPEC Fund.
3.04     Maintenance of the road network was severely neglected until the
mid-1970s. Due largely to the IDA financed First and Second Highway
Projects. the situation improved somewhat since 1977. Under these
projects, regravelling of 1,800 km vas carried out, but as a result of the
severe rainfall conditions (over 4 m p.a.) in large parts of the country,
and lack of periodic maintenance capabilities, these improvements vere only
short-lived. This experience has led the Government to adopt a strategy
consisting of two main components, i.e., construction and rehabilitation of
the most trafficked paved roads, and spot improvements on other roads.
Rehabilitation of paved roads has started under the Third Highway Project,
and vill be completed under the Transport Sector Project. The spot
improvement program, which is to be initiated under the proposed project,
consists of drainage vorks, limited regravelling, correction of eroded
sections, and repair and replacement of metallic bridges and ferry boats.
The latter is being partly financed by the CCCE. In addition, in order to
provide Guinea with a minimum, dependable all-weather access road network
to the main centers of agricultural and economic activity, a program of new
construction of about 1,900 km of paved roads is required.  The proposed
project, which envisages construction to paved standards of about 600 km,
vould be the first phase of this program. Annex' 3.3 details the ongoing
road construction and maintenance activities.
C.   Road PlanninR and Policy Framework
3.05     Under the Third Highway Project, in late 1985, a small transport
planning unit vas created vithin the former Ministry of Transport to begin
establishing a data base required for a medium-term transport plan. During



-8
the last two years this unit has carried out traffic counts and
origin/destination surveys. Moreover, the Transport Sector Project
provides funds for assistance to DGTP in civil works supervision, the
preparation of a priority program for road rehabilitation, and improvement
of the organizational framework. However, transport planning is still in
an embryonic state. Until very recently, there vas no specific and
functional classification of the country's road system, which vas
established in preparation for the proposed project. The basis of a data
collection system to procesa traffic and pavement ronditions would be
developed further under the proposed project.   Alse, a compatible approach
between the Ministry of Transport and Public Works and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA) is being developed to avoid
duplication and improve coordination (paras. 3.10-3.11). More
fundamentally, there has not been a sound, comprehensive and coherent road
investment and maintenance development program for the country based on the
sub-sector's priorities required to support overall economic development.
3.06     In order to arrive at a more rational and coherent road
development program, medium and long term indicative investment and
maintenance plans were agreed upon at negotiations. In the medium term,
that is, for the next 5 to 8 years, the pricrities for the road network
ares
Ci)   rehabilitation of the paved road network;
(ii)   spot-improvement program for the National Road Network;
(iii)   a rural roads improvement program in order to ensure access to
main agriculture areas and to achieve a balanced development of
national and regional roads;
(iv)   construction of paved roads between important centers of economic
activity; and
(v) a gradual build-up of routine maintenance capabil4ties.
Many roads are presently beyond routine and periodic maintenance due to the
limited maintenance capabilities of MTTP. With the ongoing road
improvements and those proposed under the project, the need for
capabilities in routine and periodic maintenance vill further increase and
cannot be met by the inadequate force account capacity of MTTP. Therefore,
rehabilitation of paved roads and spot improvement vill, to the maximum
extent possible, have to be contracted out while routine maintenance vill
be carried out by village workers (lengthmen) and petty contractors. MTTP
will supervise all vorks on the National Road Network and MARA will
supervise the rural roads improvement program on the Regional Road Network.
3.07     Concerning the lonR term, an indicative road network development
plan has been prepared which comprises the investments required to build,
upgrade and improve the paved, gravel and earth roads as well as tracks,
which are considered likely candidates to make up the National and Regional
Road Networks (Annex 3.1). MTTP plans to introduce simplified screening
procedures to sort out these roads. Those selected will be subjected to
economic feasibility studies and detailed designs. Also, MTTP will ask
consultants to be engaged in these studies to supplement existing traffic



data with traffic counts and origin/destination surveys on the roads under
study. These surveys and studies vill provide the bases for preparing the
long-term road investment plan. The list of selected roads defined in
Annex 3.1 vas aRreed to during negotiations. In addition to providing a
basis for future investment programs, this list should provide a sound
basis for improving aid coordination.
3.08     The aforementioned indicative road network development plan is
based on the preliminary assumption that 25Z of the Government's total
capital and recurrent expenditures over the next two decades vill be
allocated to the road sub-sector, which would imply an average of US$55
million per year, in 1987 prices. While ambitious when compared vith
historically low investments, these figures are considered feasible (other
African countries have achieved similar or larger targets) and needed to
raise Guinea from its present backward condition. Details of the analysis
underlying the development plan are shown in Annex 3-4. The development
plan thus provides an indication of funds necessary during the next 20
years for each of the five sets of priority areas defined in paragraph
3.06.  Implementation of the road improvement program has been spread over
the period 1988-2004 so as to remain approximately vithin the above yearly
average expenditures as follows:
(a) Paving about 1,880 km of the primary National Road Network over a
fourteen-year period (1989-2000);
(b) Upgrading an additional 1,010 km of the primary National Road
Network to the level of geometrically vwll-designed, all-veather
gravel roads (Routes en Terre Moderne, RTM) over a ten-year period
(1993-2002);
(c) Rehabilitating about 1,510 km of existing tracks of the secondary
National Road Network to the level of gravel roads (Routes en
Terre, RT) over a ten-year period (1994-2004);
(d) Upgrading about 5,000 km of feeder roads of the Regional Road
Network over a sixteen-year period (1989-2004);
(e) Developing periodic maintenance by contract vith an initial
emphasis on the elimination of critical points on the primary
National Road Network and continuation of emergency vorks on the
rest of the National Road Network during a nine-year period
(1992-2000); and
(f) Developing a systematic policy of contracted routine maintenance
on the rehabilitated or newly reconstructed road network, to be
carried out during the next two decades.
3.09     The physical and financial targets of this indicative medium and
long term road network program are in line vith the Government's three-year
rolling investment and expenditure program of the road sector for the
period 1988-93. If undertaken as conceived, over the next two decades,
about 86Z vould be spent on national roads, and 14Z on regional roads.



- 10 -
While the initial emphasis is on the construction/rehabilitation of the
basic networks at the national and regional levels, this emphasis would
gradually shift to maintenance, and from the national to the regional
systems. It is tentatively estimated that during the first five years
(1988-92) capital expenditures for rehabilitation and new construction
would represent about 86Z of total expenditures, while recurrent
expenditures for maintenance and spot improvements would amount to 112 and
3Z respectively. By the year 2005 maintenance expenditures would have
increased te about 571 of the total. Upgrading to the level of gravel
roads is noL recommended before the required capacity to maintain gravel
roads - expected by 1993 - has been established. All specific investments
will be subject to economic feasibility studies.
D. Road Administration
3.10     MTTP is responsible for all road construction and maintenance
activities, which are carried out through its five Directorates and 36
field sub-divisions. The routine maintenance activities carried out by
sub-divisions have been almost negligible, and the central services have
concentrated on a few emergency operations around the capital, and
supervision of ongoing construction projects (Conakry city streets,
Gueckedou-Seredou) by contractors. IDA-financed reconstruction and
periodic maintenance activities on parts of the priority road network are
being planned, executed and supervised by OPR (para. 2.16). Under the
Transport Sector Project it vas agreed that the Government would privatize
OPR's construction division. This could be done by transforming it into a
joint-venture contracting firm. The possible alternatives for OPR's
privatization are currently being studied by a consultant financed under
the Third Highway Project. All planning, supervision, maintenance and
training activities would return to MTTP. MTTP will thus reassume full
responsibility for the planning, and control of all road construction and
maintenance activities. Since the creation of a satisfactory capacity to
carry out this responsibility will take at least five years, HTTP vill
focus its activities, during the project period, on the National Road
Network. In subsequent phases of the road development program, MTTP's sub-
divisions should become more effective in their collection of data on road
conditions and the supervision of simple maintenance operations. To ensure
that the equally important upgrading of the Regional Road Network (rural
roads) will not be neglected, it was aRreed at negotiations that MTTP will
transfer itL responsibilities over the Regional Road Network to MARA before
March 31, 1989.
3.11     A Rural Infrastructure Project, includirig the reconstruction of
about 1,500 km (out of 5,000 km) of priority regional roads branching out
of the National Road Network, is under preparation by MARA with IDA
assistan .e. Construction and mechanized maintenance of these rural roads
would be carried out by contract and the works supervised with the
assistance of consultants. Routine maintenance would be organized through
local communities. Coordination and consistency of acticns between DGTP
and MARA will be ensured through an interministerial committee, that will
hold monthly meetings. Moreover, the additional responsibility of MARA for
the Regional Road Network will require intensive training of management and



- il -
staff in construction supervision and maintenance of rural roads. Measures
to address this issue vould be elaborated during project implementation and
preparation of the Rural Infrastructure Project.
E. Traffic and Road Transport
3.12     Due to inadequate data it is difficult to determine the size of
Guinea's overaged and extremely heterogenous vehicle fleet. The
operational vehicle fleet is estimated at about 27,000 (less than a fifth
of that in Côte d'Ivoire and about half of that of Senegal) of which about
19,000 are passenger cars, 3,000 station wagons, 4,000 trucks and 1,000
buses (Annex 3.5). In 1982 the fleet vas estimated at 21,000 vehicles;
imports have almost doubled to over 7,000 vehicles (many of them second
hand) p.a. in 1985 and 1986. The present fleet is adequate to meet present
transport demand, but when economic activity picks up, a considerable
increase in transport capacity vill be required. Major new investment in
vehicles by private Guinean operators can, however, only be expected after
better operating conditions have been re-established on the country's main
road network.
3.13     Despite the recent increase in vehicle imports, traffic volumes on
the inter-urban network have changed little from the 1980182 levels,
indicating that vehicles are mostly used for city traffic (Conakry).
Traffic on the main axis from Conakry to Mamou varies from about 3,000 vpd
near the capital to some 800 vpd near Kindia and about 400 vpd near Mamou.
Annex 3.5 shows that interurban traffic flows of about 228 million vehicle-
kms, 64Z of which is on paved roads, is about one fourth of those in
Senegal.  Traffic data for most of the country's roads are scarce; however,
the DGT planning unit has started vehicle counting campaigns and
origin/destination surveys. Preliminary results show erratic variations
but also dramatic traffic increases (up to 50Z p.a.) on recently improved
road sections that indicate a great sensitivity of traffic to road
condition.
3.14     The road transport industry has undergone significant changes
since the advent of the Second Republic. Freight traffic is nov handled
mostly by private operators, the majority being owner-operators of one or
two vehicles.  Access to the industry is free and tariffs have been
deregulated. Road passenger transport is handled by small private
transporters. Some 7,000 vehicles are estimated to be licensed for public
transport with over two thirds operating in the capital. Facilities for
vehicle maintenance and repair are few and those that exist are poorly
equipped. As a result of a January 1988 increase in the fuel price from
GF 14011 to GF 250/1, pump prices are nov well above border prices
(Annex 3-6).
F. Construction Industry
3.15     In the past, road construction works were carried out by foreign
contractors, and road maintenance vorks by force account. Domestic
construction contractors had no opportunity to develop the4r capacities in
the road sub-sector. A handful of large foreign contractors have been



- 12 -
involved in road construction and are still operating in the country.
After the new regime established a new economic framework, medium-scale
competitors appeared in the market, coming mainly from neighboring
countries.  These firms have expanded their operations in Guinea to the
building sector, and have started competing for road rehabilitation and
maintenance works. Although previous government polity vas not conducive
to the development of small domestic contractors, in particular for road
maintenance works, some capacities do exist, at a modes-. level, for labor
intensive routine mai.atenance works through the cantonnape scheme, either
for petty contractors or for village workers (lengthmen). Moreover, the
spot improvement component of the project vill provide incentives to
develop the local construction industry.
G.  Highway Engineering and Construction
3.16     MTTP has not developed geometric design standards for new roads or
for road upgrading. In addition, it has no consistent policy for pavement
design, construction specifications and quality standards adapted to the
specific conditions of the country's various regions. The technical
assistance team hired under the Transport Sector Project vill be required
to prepare appropriate design standards and policies. Meanwhile, detailed
engineering and construction supervision will be carried out by qualified
international consulting firms that generally follow accepted engineering
practices.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
4.01     The main objectives of the project, which vill be carried out over
a period of five years, are to (a) gradually increase the National Road
Network and enhance its level of service (para. 3.06); and (b) further
strengthen MTTP's capability for managing the National Road Network (para.
3.10). The project vill be the firat phase of the long-term program
described in para. 3.08, which is essential to improving the country's
economy.
B. Description
4.02     The project consists of:
(a) Construction and improvement to paved road standard, and
supervision by consultants, of two sections of the National Road
Network totalling about 600 km.
(b) Elimination of critical points on about 1,500 km of the primary
National Road Network to ensure year-round accessibility.
(c) Development of a routine maintenance policy for all rehabilitated
portions of the National Road Network.



- 13 -
(d) Studies by consultants of the feasibility of improving about 600
km of the National Road Network followed by a further 200 km of
detailed engineering and miscellaneous economic and technical
studies related vith the transport sector.
(e) Provision of fellowships for training MTTP's staff and provision
for technical assistance.
(a) Reconstruction and Imprevement Including PavinR
4.03     Two rcad links of the primary National Road Network, (the Dubreka-
Kolaboui coastal road, 200 km, and a section of the main road to the east
Mamou-Kankan, 400 km) will be reconstructed and improved, including
bituminous paving. Reconstruction vill generally follow present alignment,
with improvement of horizontal and vertical alignments. These road links,
whose locations are indicated on Map No. 21019, and whose characteristics
are described in more detail in Annexes 4-1 and 4.2, will have 2 lane
pavements (of 7 m for Dubreka-Kolaboui and of 6 m for Mamou-Kankan) and
shoulders betveen 1 m and 1.50 m. Design speeds will vary from 50 km/h to
100 km/h according to terrain. Maximum gradients vill normally be below
10Z, though some short sections in mountainous areas vill reach up to 122.
Pavements vill be double surface treatment and shoulders, normally of
gravel, vill be protected on the Dubreka-Kolaboui road. The base course
vill be of granular lateritic material, stabilized with cement or made of
crushed-run material in the case of part of the Dubreka-Kolaboui road. New
small bridges vill be constructed where necessary for reasons of alignment
or hydraulic capacity. Existing one-lane bridges vill be maintained and
specific signalization vill be issued in case of insufficient structural
strength. DGTP vill be responsible for legal procedures to free the right
of way, borrow pit and quarries. The contractors vill be exempted from
paying taxes for the extraction of construction materials used for the
project.
4.04     A feasibility and detailed engineering study for the Dubreka-
Kolaboui road vas carried out in 1976 by the US consultants Louis Berger
International vith financing from the Kuwait Fund; updated final design
documents for two bidding lots were prepared early 1988 under IDA financing
(Third Highway Project). For the Mamou-Kankan road, the feasibility study
vas carried out by the French consultants SEMA in 1980 and the detailed
engineering by a Philippine firm Teckniks vith local financing. The
updated final design for five bidding lots of this road vas carried out in
early 1988 by a consortium between Teckniks and Ingeroute, the latter a
French consulting firm, vith financing under the Third Highway Project.
For both roads, bidding documents have been prepared and only minor
corrections are needed to adapt them to specific co-donors' requirements.
(b) Elimination of Critical Points
4.05     The project will finance the engineering, supervision, and
construction of spot improvement works (para. 3.04) on about 1,500 km of
the unpaved National Road Network. This program will consist of building
drainage systems, rehabilitating bridges, and repairing ntd gravelling
impassable sections with such earthworks as necessary to eliminate the



- 14 -
critical points (Annex 4.3). Initially, during a trial period of about 12
months, the concept of spot improvement will be developed through
simplified final design carried out with the assistance of consultants,
which will permit identification of the works and preparation of the first
technical specifications and bidding documents. Works will be carried out
by contract. This trial period will provide the necessary foundation for
the preparation of model technical and standard documents, which will
constitute the basis for further implementation of the spot improvement
program. Bidding documents for the initial works will be fully reviewed by
IDA. Accordingly, it was agreed during negotiations that DGTP will (i)
each year before October 31, starting in October 1988, submit to IDA for
its review and commenta the annual plans and the related detailed action
plan for implementing the spot improvement component; (ii) before December
31, 1989 present to IDA for approval model technical and standard bidding
documents; and (iii) not later than December 31, 1990, circulate - after
consultation with IDA - guidelines for the identification, selection and
execution of spot improvement works.
(c) Road Maintenance
4.06     Periodic Maintenance.  As a result of the ongoing works of
rehabilitation of the existing paved network, and of the proposed paving
and spot improvement components, periodic maintenance needs to be
undertaken only as of about five years from project inception.  The project
provides for a policy to contract out periodic maintenance in order to
limit force account operations and to focus the institutional build-up on
the training of a reduced number of maintenance engineers who would manage
periodic maintenance by contract. During negotiations, it was agreed that
before December 31, 1991, DGTP will submit to IDA for its review a program
for the periodic maintenance of the National Ro&a Network.
4.07     Routine Maintenance.  At present, routine maintenance of the
National Road Network is the responsibility of DGTP's 36 sub-divisions.
However, due to the lack of organization, technical capabilities, and
insufficient financial resources these sub-divisions are inactive. Under
the Third Highway Project, DGTP has developed a methodology of labor-
intensive "cantonnaRe" to handle routine maintenance that will be tested
by a pilot project under the Transport Sector Project. Under this
"cantonnage" methodology, local villagers are employed to clear vegetation
and maintain drainage systems (Annex 4.4). DGTP will finance the
contracting of such workers (about $250 per km per year) to carry out
routine maintenance on designated road sections, on average 4 km long. In
addition, a group of petty contractors will be trained to carry out works
in some regions. It is expected that by 1992, some 200 "cantonniers" would
be working to maintain about 800 km of paved roads. To establish the
technical criteria and procedures to contract, supervise, and pay for the
works, technical assistance will be provided to the DGTP, financed
initially under the Transport Sector Project. The project will finance the
purchase of hand tools, some vehicles to supervise the implementation of
this component, and bicycles for workers and foremen. During negotiations
MTTP confirmed the implementation of routine maintenance by independent
cantonniers and petty contractors.



- 15 -
td) Feasibility Studies and Final EnRineering Design
4.08     The project includes a provision to build-up a limited portfolio
of about 600 km of feasibility studies, and about 200 km of final
engineering design (Annex 4.5). The feasibility studies, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, vill be selected in agreement with IDA from
the list of the National Road Network (Annex 3.1). The project will
finance up to US$1.0 million of additional economic or technical studies of
the transport sector, to be defined by common agreement between the
Government and IDA. After (i) review and selection by DGTP of new road
vorks and agreement by IDA; (ii) the economic rate of return of these
planned vorks has been proven to exceed lOZ; and (iii) prospects indicate
that these vorks vould begin vithin a period of three years, final design
of proposed new road investments vill be carried out for implementation
under the next phase of the road development program. These thresholds
vere confirmed during negotiations.
(e) Provision of Fellovships for TraininR DGTP's Staff. and Technical
Assistance.
4.09     The project includes fellovships for training Government staff in
neighboring countries, in particular at the Ecole Nationale Superieure des
Travaux Publics (ENSTP) in Côte d'Ivoire.  During negotiations, it vas
aRreed that, not later than March 31, 1989, the Government vill submit to
IDA for its approval the training program to be undertaken by the
candidates selected. The project also includes a provision to continue
technical assistance support to DGTP already initiated under the Transport
Sector Project. This technical assistance consisting of four high level
experts is crucial for DGTP's planning, supervision, and management of
construction vorks.
C.   Cost Estimate
4.10     The total cost of the project, including contingency allovances,
is estimated at about US$200 m equivalent (Annex 4.6); it is Governnent
policy that the project be exempt from taxes and duties. The foreign
exchange component amounts to about US$173 m or 86.4Z. Costs have been
estimated at June 1988 prices, using the exchange rate of US$1 - FG 513.
Physical contingencies of 8.5Z on average have been added. Price
contingencies for foreign expenditures are 2.7Z for 1989-90, and 1.2Z for
1991-93; for local expenditures, annual price increases of 15Z vere use-d
for 1989, 8Z for 1990 and 52 for 1991-1993 to reflect current inflation
trends in Guinea. Annexes 4-1, 4-2, 4-3 & 4-4 give detailed cost estimates
for each component. The estimated average costs per km, excluding
contingency allowances (including contingency allowances shown in
parentheses), are (a) for paving of roads, US$220,000 (US$263,000); (b) for
supervision by consultants, US$9,900 (US$12,200); (c) for elimination of
critical points US$12,000 (US$15,600); (d) for annual routine maintenance
US$250 (US$430); (e) for feasibility studies US$430 (US$580); and (f) for
final design US$4,000 (US$5,380). The estimated costs per man-month of
technical assistance, excluding contingency allowances, foreign and local
travel and local subsistence allowances are US$12,000; including foreign
and local travel and local subsistence allovances the cost per man-month is



- 16 -
US$14,300. The estimated cost for one man-year fellowship for training
staff is US$l8,000 including travel. The cost estimate is summarized as
followst
-------- FOC () ---------   --- un () --------
Local   Forclon   Total    Local   Forolsn   Total
A. Civll Works
Constructlon Dubreka-Kolaboul    8,181   28,827   33,146  6.47    68.14      64.61
Construction Maou-Kankan      8,470   81,808   84,781     6.70    61.62      07.80
Spot Ilprovements               928    0,811    9,284     1.80    16.20      18.00
Routine maintenance            267        -      267       .62     -          0.62
I. Purchase of Toolu                    -       si       81      -        6. 6       0. 6
C. Consultant Services
Supervision Dubreka-Kolsboul    174     052    1,026      0.84     1.6        2.00
Supervision Mamou-Ksnkan        844    1,678    2,622     6.67     8.27       8.94
Studies/Superv. Spot Improvements  281    1,123    1,864  0.45     2.19       2.64
Supervislon Routine Maintenance    189  880      519      0.27     0.74      1.01
Studios end Engineering         154     903    1,067      6.86     1.76       2.06
Technical Aasiatance           108      662      770      0.21     1.29       1.60
D. Training                             -       Is8     189      -        0.27       0.27
E. Total Bas. Cost                   9,186   75,209   84,846    17.81   146.66    164.41
F. Contingency Allowances
(i) Physicel                       016    4,841    7,167     1.69    12.86      18.96
ili) Price                       8,906   7,116   11,101      7.77    13.87      21.64
Total Project Coot              18,988   88,s66  102,608     27.17   172.88    200.08
4.11     Cost estimates for paving were updated by the consultants Louis
Berger International and by TecknikslIngeroute after completing detailed
engineering. Since only limited works of this kind have recently been
carried out in Guinea, particularly for pavement strengthening and
resealing, unit prices vere generally derived from similar works obtained
from international competitive bidding in Cote d'Ivoire, a neighboring
country. The other cost estimates have been prepared by DGTP with OPR's
and IDA's assistance on the basis of previous contracts. For spot
improvement, detailed simplified engineering and final cost estimates will
be sent to IDA for review and agreement before bide are invited.
D. ImDlementation
4.12     MTTP, with technical assistance hired under the Transport Sector
Project, will be responsible for implementation of the project. During
negotiations, it was agreed that employment of the teamleader of the
technical assistance team on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association is a condition of credit effectivess.   MTTP will be assisted
in supervising the paving program by the same consultants who carried out
the engineering studies. Main project works (road construction) are
expected to be completed by late 1991. The project will cover spot
improvement works, studies and engineering until late 1993. The
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 4-7.



- 17 -
E. Procurement
Amounts and Methode of Procurement a/
(US$ m equivalent)
Cateaory                        ICB    LCB      Other    Total
1.  Civil Works                      132.9    12.0   37.7       182.6
(33.0)  (10.8)  (--)      (43.8)
2.  Purchase of Tools                  --       --     0.1        0.1
(--)    (--)   (0.1)      (0.1)
3.  Supervision of Works               --       --    12.3       12.3
(--)    C-->   (6.1)      (6.1)
4.  Consulting Services.               --       --     5.0        5.0
Technical Assistance and         (--)    C--)   (5.0)       (5.0)
Training
5.  Total (incl. continRencies)      132.9    12.0   55.1       200.0
m          ==1 :===Q=
(33.0)  (10.8) (11.2)    (55.0)
ai Amounts in () indicate IDA credit shares in totals.
4.13     Unless othervise indicated, procurement vill be in accordance vith
Bank Group guidelines for all components financed by IDA. For items
financed by cofinanciers procurement vill be in accordance vith
cofinanciers guidelines. Civil vorks contracts for the paving program
financed by IDA vill be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance vith Bank Group Guidelines.   Civil works contracts
for the spot improvement program in excess of US$1.5 million equivalent
vill be avarded on the basis of ICB including prequalification. The normal
margin of preference to eligible domestic contractors vill be granted.
Contracte for spot improvements under US$1.5 million equivalent, but not
exceeding US$12 million in aggregate, may be awarded on the basis of LCB.
These procedures have been reviewed and found satisfactory. This use of
LCB is justified because of the difficulties associated with spot
improvement works, which vill be dispersed over several areas in Guinea
with ditficult access due to the poor state of repair of the road network.
Consequently, foreign contractors would not be interested in contracts
below $1.5 million unless they are already established in Guinea. LCB vill
be advertized locally and foreign contractors will not be precluded from
participation. Contracts vith village workers and petty contractors for
routine maintenance will be financed directly by MTTP. A limited number of
vehicles not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000, needed for
implementation of the routine maintenance program, will be procured under
the consultant contract for this component, following at least three
quotations. Hand tools and equipment for routine maintenance vill be
procured folloving international or local shopping vith a minimum of three
quotations from at least two different countries. All consultants and
experts for technical assistance financed by IDA would be recruited in



- 18 -
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines under agreed terms of reference. IDA
financed contracts for more than US$250,000 would be subject to IDA's prior
review of documentation; this would cover over 90Z uf the total value of
such contracts. These arrangements vere confirmed during negotiations.
F. Financing and Disbursements
4.14     The Project will be externally financed Dy the proposed IDA credit
(US$55.0 million equivalent), CCCE (US$35.3 million equivalent), AFDB
(US$34.8 million equivalent), USAID (US$23.0 million equivalent) and the
Republic of Italy (US$17.4 million equivalent). The remaining gap (US$15.3
million equivalent) will be financed either by official development aid yet
to be identified or, should this not be forthcoming, by an already
identified private investment group on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. The Government will finance US$19.2 million equivalent, in local
currency. The detailed financing plan is presented in Annex 4-8.
4.15     The Government's financial contribution to the project will be
provided (i) through the yearly investment budget for major road
construction and rehabilitation contracts, and (ii) through a Road Fund for
spot improvement and routine road maintenance works. Both of these will be
funded from the general treasury. Yearly allocations will be based on
annual workplans and cost estimates of works prepared by DGTP, which will
be submitted for review to the Government and IDA each year before October
31, to permit timeJ, agreement on working capital and budget funding.
These arrangements were a2reed during negotiations. To ensure rapid
payments from the Koad Fund to suppliers and contractors, a revolving
account, to be replenished regularly from the Fund, will be established in
the Central Bank and operated by the DGTP. Establishment of the Road Fund
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.16     The proposed IDA credit of US$55 million is to be made to the
Republic of Guinea. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1993, against the categories as shown in paragraph 4.17. A
Special Account with an amount of US$ 1 million representing about 4 months
of project expenditures (except civil works which will be paid for
directly), will be established in the Central Bank or a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association. Disbursements will be fully documented
except for some expenditures under Category 2, for which statements of
expenditure will be used. Documentation for the latter will be kept by the
DGTP. Disbursement applications against contracts would not be for less
than US$10,000.
4.17     Disbursements for civil works and consulting services will be on
the basis of contracts approved by IDA; lt is estimated that a maximum of
about 53 contracts would be signed.   The following table indicates credit
categories and disbursement percentagest



- 19 -
Z of Expenditure
CateRjry                 Amount (US$ m)      to be financed
1.  Civil Vorks by Contract          43.8              902
2.  Tools for Routine Maintenance    0.1              1002
3.  Supervision of Works              6.1             1OO0
4.  Technical Assistance and          5.0             100o
TraininR
TOTAL           55.0
The detailed disbursement profile is given in Annex 4.9. It differs from
the standard West Africa Region profile for transport projects (6 years)
mainly because preparation of the paving program is already at the final
design stage and mplementation of vorks should, therefore, proceed faster.
In addition, the standard profile reflects the experience of more complex
highvay maintenance projecte.
G. Accounting. Auditina and Reportin2
4.18     Accounting, costing, and budgeting systems vill be prepared and
managed by DGTP. External auditors acceptable to IDA will carry out annual
audits that vill be submitted to IDA vithin four months of the end of each
fiscal year. Auditors will provide separate opinions on the use of
Statement of Expenditures as vell as the Special Account. DGTP vill submit
quarterly progress reports on project implementation and expenditures to
IDA and the cofinanciers, as appropriate. A draft Project Completion
Report (PCR) vill be submitted to IDA one month before the Closing Date.
These auditing and reporting arrangements vere cenfirmed during
negotiations.
H.  ImDact on Environment and Emnlovment
4.19     The construction or rehabilitation works vill not cause any
significant ecological probleme. The alignments follow the existing track
corridors as far as economically practicable, reducing deforestation and
property disturbance to a minimum. The new road surfaces, when paved,
eliminate unpleasant conditions for traffic and for the population living
near the road, due to dust in dry season and mud during rainy season.
4.20     The civil works component vill generate employment opportunities
during the construction stage for some five thousand unskilled workers and
hundreds of skilled operators and drivers. The project vill alo generate
about 200 permanent additional jobs through petty contractors carrying out
routine maintenance.



- 20 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  The Paved Road Component
5.01     The benefits of the construction of the Dubreka-Kolaboui and
Mamou-Kankan road links coiisist of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC)
from normal traffic plus diverted traffic in the case of the Mamou-Kankan
link. The construction of these two links will be well timed since a
number of agricultural projects are being implemented and planned in the
zones of influence of these roads. Given the paucity of available
statistics and the major change in transport characteristics and costs
between the without-project situation (poorly maintained earth road
connections) and the with-project situation (well-engineered paved roads),
the economic benefits of the Dubreka-Kolaboui and Mamou-Kankan road links
have been based largely on present and future agricultural and industrial
production in the roads' zones of influence. Since, in the case of the
Mamou-Kankan road, the future agricultural production (rice) in the Siguiri
ares will be primarily destined for consumption in Conakry and, therefore,
wil! be transported over this road link, it has also been considered in the
economic analysis. Annexes 5-1 and 5-2 give the agricultural and
industrial production over the period 1991-2011 (expected life of the road)
for the Dubreka-Kolaboui and Mamou-Kankan links, respectively.
5.02     Based on field observations and available statistics on vehicle
ownership, it is assumed that 82Z of the above-mentioned without-project
production will be transported by 5 ton-trucks and the remaining 18Z by
il-ton trucks. The with-project production is assumed to be transported by
5-ton trucks (702), il-ton trucks (22Z) and 20-ton trucks (82), given the
much improved road conditions. The production figures of Annexes 5-1 and
5-2 are the bases for the truck related ADT estimates used in Highway
Design Model <D)M) in order to arrive at economic rates of return (ERRs).
It is noted that (i) the Pnalysis was done for individual road sections
rather than the entire links, and (il) available ADT data were used also to
take into account bus and passenger cars, which are conservatively assumed
to grow at 3 percent per year. The ERRs obtained for the Dubreka-Kolaboui
and Mamou-Kankan road links amount to 13.1Z and 11.2Z, respectively. A
sensitivity analysis carried out shows that for a given International
Roughness Index used by the HDM model, the ERRe are primarily significantly
sensitive to the price of a new vehicle; the higher this price, the higher
the ERR.
5.03     The above ERR estimates are very conservative since the production
forecasts of Annexes 5-1 and 5-2 only include ongoing projecte and projects
for which a feasibility study has been carried out and funds have been
committed. Future projects not considered in the economic analysis of the
Dubreka-Kolaboui road link are (i) an agricultural project ne'r Koundara to
be implemented by Compagnie Francaise de Textile (CFDT) with financing from
Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique, (ii) the development of a large



- 21 -
ranch north of Boke to be implemented with bilateral aid from Italy, and
Ciii) a joint Common Market/European Development Fund project (US$46
million equivalent) callinr for variou' investments in the zone of
influence of the road. Future projects not considered in the economic
analysis of the Mamou-Kankan road link are (i) an agro-industrial project
for jute production near Kanken and (ii) a joint Common Market/European
Development Fund project (US$34.5 million equivalent) calling for various
investments in areas near Dabola, Kankan, and Siguiri. Finally, benefits
of potential time savings related to passengers and capital tied up in
vehicles stranded on the roads in the without-project situation, have not
been considered.
B. The Spot Improvement Comnonent
5.04     The analysis of the spot improvement program established the
minimum required ADT for which the average spot improvement would be
justified. A number of typical sections were evaluated and the ERR ranged
between 12Z and 322 with an average of 26Z. The minimum ADT has been
estimated assuming the level of the opportunity cost of capital in Guinea
is about 122. The minimum ADT would represent 15 vehicles composed of 8
passenger cars, 3 buses, 3 small trucks and 1 large truck. A review of
available ADTs indicates that traffic levels of the roads to be selected
for spot improvements are well above this level.
C. Proiect Beneficiaries
5.05     By opening normal and permanent traffic conditions on essential
road sections, the project will open rich hinterlands and link isolated
populations to the rest of the country; it will enable agricultural input
and basic commodities to reach the regions, and rural population to export
their agricultural surplus production to the market of the cities. It will
benefit both the rural and the urban population by facilitating inter-
regional exchanbes of goode and services and re-establishing safe all-
weather passenger transport at substantially shorter travel times. The
project vill directly benefit road users, including vehicle owners and
paying passengers who will benefit from tariff reductions due to
significantly reduced costs of vehicle operation and enhanced
competitiveness on the road transport industry.  in iummary,  the benefits
of this project are expected to have a broad and profound effect on the
country's economy.
D. Proiect Risks
5.06     The paving component of the project does not involve significant
technical risks, since it has been designed according to well-known
engineering principles, will be impleiented by qualified contractors, and
supervised by experienced consultants. The spot improvement component will
require an adaptation period of about two years for the contractors and the
consultants to determine the minimum technical requirements to eliminate
critical points. The satisfactory execution of the routine maintenance
execution rests on the capacity of DGTP to timely remunerate workers and
petty contractors. The commitment of the Government together vith the
establishment of a Road Fund will reduce payment delays. The main risk is
the limited managerial and technical capability of DGTP. Technical
assistance to assist DGTP in its tasks sheuld mitigate this risk.



- 22 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, agreement vas reached on the following:
(a) A medium and long term indicative road investment and maintenance
plan (para. 3.06);
(b) A list of priority roada of the National Road Network
(para. 3.07);
(c) Transfer of responsibilities for the Regional Road Network from
DGTP to MARA vill be completed before March 31, 1989 (paras. 3.10
and 3.11);
(d) Typical technical and standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA
for implementation of the spot improvement program vill be
presented before December 31, 1989 (para. 4.05);
(e) A guideline for execution of spot improvement, satisfactory to
IDA, vill be published before Dec. 31, 1990 (para. 4.05);
(f) Annual planning and the related detailed action plan for
implementing the spot improvement program vill be discussed each
year before October 31 <para. 4.05);
(g) Specific proposals for periodic maintenance operations by contract
vill be presented for review by IDA before Dec. 31. 1991 (para.
4.06);
th) Routine maintenance vill be implemented vith village workers and
petty contractors (prra. 4.07).
(i) Final design vill begin only if the economic rate of return
exceeds 10Z and when prospects indicate that vorks vill begin
vithin a period of three years (para. 4.08);
(j) The training program to be undertaken by candidate-engineers vill
be submitted to the Association for approval not later than March
31, 1989 (para. 4.09);
(k) Consultants and experts for technical assistance financed by IDA
vill be recruited in accordance vith the Bank Group Guidelines
under agreed terms of reference (para. 4.13);
(1) Annual vorkplans and cost estimates on project operations during
the folloving year vould be prepared by DGTP for review by the
Government and IDA before October 31 of each year (para. 4.15);
and
(m) External auditors acceptable by IDA vill carry out annual audits.
DGTP vill submit quarterly progress reports and a Project
Completion Report (para. 4.18).



- 23 -
6.02 Additional Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) Promulgation of the new organizational structure of DGTP (para.
2.13);
(b) Employment of the team leader of the technical assistance team
responsible for assisting DGTP (para. 4.12); and
(c) Establishmnent of the Road Fund on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.15).
6.03     Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is technically
and economically sound and is suitable for a credit of US$55.0 million
equivalent on standard terms with a 40-year maturity.



- 24 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PUBLIC WORKS ADMINISTRATION
1.        The Ministry of Infrastructure and Urban Development was divided in
January 1988 into a Ministry of Urban Development and Housing and a Ministry
of Transport and Public Works (MTTP). The former Secrétariats d'Etat, one
for transport and the other for public works, became the Direction Générale
aux Transports (DGT) and the Direction Générale aux Travaux Publics
(DGTP). The organizational structure of MTTP is now being reformulated.
2.        The Commissariat Général à la Réforme Administrative (CGRA) is
responsible for monitoring the administrative reform process. For reasons of
consistency, CGRA is helping to plan the overall organization and the
different departmental functions, at both the central and the territorial
government levels. The process of preparing the organic structure is
codified; recommendations are made by commissions, and compromises are sought
between CGRA and the ministry concerned. Following this process, the
organizational structure and staffing requirements are.set.furth in a document
signed by the Minister of Transport and Public Works. This process was not
yet in operation in January 1988. In parallel, CGRA is setting up an
evaluation/selection program for government workers at levels A, B, C and D
(from Engineer to Foreman) who have less than 15 years of service and who have
not studied abroad.  In the first stage, general attitude tests [tests
psychotechniques] are given by CGRA; in the second phase, vocational skills
tests (subcontracted to specialized consulting firms) will be conducted,
applying broad job profiles. The first stage, involving DGTP staff, took
place in December 1987; the results are now being analyzed.
3.        The organic structure of DGTP needs to be undergirded by certain
general principles that have already been the subject of study but have not
yet been discussed by the various actors. These principles are the following:
(a) DGTP should be a normative and centralized body in charge of
planning, programming and supervision.
(b) DGTP should entrust operational tasks (studies, construction,
supervision, maintenance, etc.) to the private sector (enterprises,
consulting firms).



- 25 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 4
(c) The establishment of central departments should receive priority;
the decentralized regional departments will be structured later,
following reconstruction of the road network.
(d)  During the first stage, lasting five to six years, DGTP will need to
devote its efforts to reconstruction and maintenance of the National
Network.
4.        This strategy should lead to the creation of a modern government
eservice that is unquestionably oriented toward management of the road
network. A draft organizational chart for such a service is presented as an
Annex. A Direction d'Etude et Programmation (DEP), responsible for
identification, classification, and quantification of all parameters relative
to the infrastructures of the National Road Network provides works/maintenance
programs and contracts, where appropriate, to (i) the Direction des
Infrastructures (DI) and (ii) the Direction de l'Entretien Routier (DIR).
In due course, the Directions Régionales, assisted by a limited number of
subdivisions, will take over routine maintenance management; those same
territorial departments of DGTP could also, in the long term, act as delegated
executing authority [maître d'oeuvre délégué] for other government agencies.
5.        DGTP should be operational by December 31, 1988.  The Transport
Sector Project provides for technical assistance to assist, in particular,
with the detailed planning of the organizational structure and with the
personnel evaluation process. The inclusion of this technical assistance is a
prerequisite for the success of the MTTP reorganization.



- 26 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 4
REPtJO UE * DE GUINEE
QUAMTREMEPROJET  RUTIER
SCHEMA ORGANISATIONNEL DE LA DGP
Laboratolr  ICN             DGTP                                        DGT     I
.           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Direction    |            Dire6tlon                Diroctlon                  Dlrection
Etude«                                            Entretien               Administrative
ProgrrDtTon              Infrastructure               Routier                   Finenclère
D    D  _D                D   _         a                         D
i    i    i    u          i      o      o                         i
v    v    v    r          v      r      r          D      O       v
i    i    i ~~ s                               i      i       i                       Direction
Sourcos  Lics             s      av                       v       s1 R98onales
n    n    n      o        n      d      d          i      i       n                    S                S
E    E    T    sT                       a          n      n       Ob                            b       b
t    t    r    t          r      a                                                     d        d      d
u    u    à    i          a      e      M          -      d       s                             i 
d    d    n    o          v      Il    a                  u       t                     v       v       v
e    e    s    n  a     ~~~t    r         E               i                    i        i 
s s p I   ~~~u ic    n  M                                                                  
0    I                o      h          t      a       ni                            i
a    T    r    n                 n      6r                t                            o        o 
6    a    t    f          N                        a      à       C                     nn              n
n    c    I    o                                  t       r       o
à    h    C    r          o                        1      i       n
r    n    i    a          f                               a       t
a       r    a         sn                               I      r
I q    c    to
e u    u    i 
ta    e
o
nU 
Sources Mission IDA, Février 1980
*ecnams:YC8AROUUIneX2-1cDtr:SaIliler)



uwor4nu                                     .00096~OéV uoum~  <3- P A 00PW I U »   IGth
UUPe  -  -     0
w ~woo.c4  -  -
*    $ e      ÇOOg -                                       t oy aomu    fl*auo -
OnmflU~!OEi                                 InuV  wI Ogw    euffl S
ob  MM  UoaW wOM  -                                          co   weP> os,oo    u: -
ucom                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(et i1  Iooowso op eflugo-
pI    u.>mSn: » *u  *                                                  4
SNMICMul 1 0Jd OP OPcOpp.
»_e_q_-  )                                     se *^D U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OodoN SU
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cm  " tMd op epo P
e  ~~~n mue                                                         jOOS Cmg  pie (Mo so op "coi OCI9
*       <wo wO o    $*                               - -
0oqnx  _^e UDS: .du » no w
SONWOUD 49 sv4p~toco                                    U- -w  -
W   * uS  
* « "I»~~~~~~~S- ~                       PSIhdUOAS 
iu'd u euI     op 
OU04 eomm 0                             9~~~~~~~saew (34hot  <PUPmiuw DLq  o, 
8'u 0 lignefl a  tw w-m uemm *OMMO hi -g  wum%m«ç 
_ »3 vW ci -0          99)  mom»i O                            l a .  S     d-      O
* f                                             ( --S.-     PWDO" . .
- P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" *  i S-c»- 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mw *0oe _S    _lnc                                                   *dOM
- -, 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~np» _a                                              a Pq
d l O1J       ~       4      l
1.Ii'w  i.i         1-                                      usz  *J * r4    -  
.   ~ ~ .~
. ; n    oo                          ne   o   - 
T-m n~NNV                                        r   °W
&SRC op OM
(L861 '*a)a 
XaI;llOx larOid IE3jvn
l-Z  XHN,w                                                L



- 28 -
ANNEX  2-2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
i                                   QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
PROGRAMME D'INVESTISSEMENT PUBLIC (87-89): SECTEUR DES TRANSPORTS
PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM (87-89): TRANSPORT SECTOR
Total
1987       1988       1989        US$ m_
1. Travaux Publics
Génie Civil Routes       37.64        48.06      82.15       167.85
Etudes                     2.35        2.06       9.22        13.63
Voies Urbaines             3.75        4.95       13.23       21.93
1. Transport
Portuaires               17.20        12.50      15.00        44.70
Aériens                    5.6"        5.33        7.80       18.60
Urbain                     1.72        0.25                    1.97
Ferroviaires               0.11        0.11       1.80         2.03
Divers                     0.20        0.70        0.80        1.70
Total US$ m            68.56        73.81     130.0        272.40
Sources  Ministère du Plan - Transport Sector Project.
March 1988
AFlIN



- 29 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIENE PROJET ROUTIER
Réseau Routler National/National HiRfra8 Network
Catégorie I/      Classe/Class 21
Itineraire/Route              Km        cateaorv           a        b
Conakry-Kindia-Hamou           255          Pr           RB         RB
Dubreka-PK36                    il          Pr           RB         RB
Coya-Farmoreah                  82          Pr           RB         RB
Mamou-Dalaba-Labe              147          Pr           RB         RB
Hamou-Paranah-Kissidougou      329          Pr           RB         RB
Kissidougou-Gueckedou           85          Pr           RB         RB
Gueckedou-Seredou              126          Pr           RB         RB
Kissidougou-Kankan             190          Pr           RB         RB
Kmssar-Boke                     54          Pr           RB         RB
Labe-Popodara                   10          Pr           RB         RB
S/Total (Km)               1,289          Pr
Dubreka-Kolaboui               200          Pr           RT/P       RB
)amou-Dabola-Kankan            402          Pr           RTIP       RB
Seredou-N'zerekore             122          Pr           RTIP       RB
N'zerekore-Thuo                 36          Pr           RTIP       RB
Kankan-N'zerekore              393          Pr           RTIP       RB
Parmoreah-Sierra.L              10          Pr           RT/P       RB
Labe-Seriba                    147          Pr           RTIP       RB
Seriba - Frontière Sénégal    137           Pr           RT/P       RTHIRB
Boke - Frontière G. Bissau    106           Pr           RT/P       RTHIRB
Rsnkan - Siguiri Mali          194          Pr           RTIP       RTM/RB
Beila - Senko - Fr CI          134          Pr           RTIP       RTMIRB
S/Total (Km)               1.881
1/ Pr - Réseau Primaire/Primary Network.
S  - Réseau Secondaire/Secondary Network.
21 a  - Niveau Existant/Existing Situation.
b  - Niveau Futur Envisagé/Envisaged Level.
RB - Route Bitumée/Paved Road.
RTK- Route Terre Moderne/Grivel Road.
RT - Route en Terre/Earth Road.
P  - Piste/Track.



- 30 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Réseau Routier National/National HiRhway Network
Catégorie i/      Classe/Clase 2/
Itineraire/Route              Km        Category           a         b
Boke-Gaoual Seriba             193           Pr          RT/P        RTM
Wassou-Pria                     64           Pr          RT/P        RTM
Kindia-Telimele-Gaoual         255           Pr          RT/P        RTM
Bissikrima-Selouma-Siguiri    305            Pr          RT/P        RTM
Selouma-Tougue-Labe            192           Pr          RT/P        RTM
Kankan-Mandiana-
Frontiere Mali                187           Pr          P           RTM
S/Total (Km)               1,196
Labe-Mali-F.Senegal            200           S           P           RT
Fria-Telimele-Labe             215           S           P           RT
Labe-Koumbia                    66           S           P           RT
Koundara-G.Bissau               43           S           P           RT
Dalaba-Tougue                  170           S           P           RT
Yrikiri-Siguiri                 78           S           P           RT
-.issidougou-Kerouane          180           S           P           RT
Gueckedou-Nongoa                20           S           P           RT
Macenta-Konsankoro             100           S           P           RT
N'zerekore-Yomou                61           S           P           RT
Faranah-Dabola                 110           S           P           RT
S/Total (Km)               1,243
Total (Km)                 5,609
Primaire/Primary             4,366
Secondaire/Secondary       1,243
Source: DGTP, IDA.
May, 1988
AFlIN



- 31 -
ANNEXE 3-2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Caractéristiques du RéseauIHighvav Network Characteristics
1.   Données de Base/Basic Data
Réseaux/Networks               Bitumées          Terre         Total
(Paved)        (Unoaved)        Km
Primaire/Primary a/                     1,289           3,077          4,366
Secondaire/Secondary ai                                 1,243         1,243
S/Total                                 1,289           4,320         5,609
Tertiaire (Tertiary) b/                                 5,000          5,000
Total Km                           1,289           9,320        10,609
ai Routes Nationales/National Roads.
b/ Routes Régionales/Regional Roads.
2.   Comparateurs Statistiques/Statistical Comparators
W.Afr a/    GUI         GHA       IVC     CAM
Surface/Area (Km2 000)               7,967      246           239    322      475
PnB/GNP (US$ Bn 1984)                34.3        1.98         4.30   6.04    7.52
Population/(Population) Mn           90          5.90        12.30   9.90    9.90
GNP/Capita (US$ 1984)                270         330         350     610      760
Réseau/Netwvorx Km 000 a/            323         10.7        28.4    47.8    64.6
Km/100 Km2                           4.0         4.3         11.9    14.8    13.6
Km/lOOOP                             3.6         1.8          2.3     4.8      6.5
ai Nigeria Exclu/Nigeria excluded.
Source: DGTP - IDA.
March, 1988
AF1IN



- 32 -
ANNEX 3-3
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINES
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Travaux en Cours IOnRoing ConstructionlMaintenance Activities
I.   Objectifs Physiques ai   Total
(Physical Targets)        Km       1986    1987    1988    1989   1990
Gueckedou-Seredou          126     20       76      30
3eme Projet Routier        730             100     400     230
Projet Sectoriel           434                      40     224    170
Total (Km)             1,290     20      176     470     454    170
II.  Investissements ai       Total
(Investments)          USSm
Gueckedou Seredou           80     13       48      19
3eme Projet Routier         41               6      22      13
Projet Sectoriel            22                       2      il      9
Total (US8m)             143     13       54      43      24      9
III. EntretienlMaintenance bti
3eme Projet Routier          4               1       3
Ponts;BacsiBridges,Ferries  13                       7       6
Miscellaneous                2               1       1
Total (US$m)              19               1      12       6
ai Sur RB (on Paved Road)
bi Sur RT (on Unpaved Road)
Sources DGTP, IDA.
March, 1988
APlIN



33
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road network development golicy
Basic direction
1.        It is well known that one of the prerequisites for rehabilitation of
the economy is a smoothly operating transport sector. The development of most
economic activities, particularly those of a predominantly rural nature, is
dependent upon renewal and construction of the country's major highways. The
private sector will handle the transport activities, while the provision of
viable and adequate infrastructure will be the government's responsibility.
Space structuring
2.        The highway renewal and construction policy is based otl a human,
economic, and social space-structuring system. This system comprises:
(a) a primary and secondary network at the national level, linking the
major regi"-is, provinces, and prefectures; and
(b) a tertiary, regional network linking the subprefectures to the
national network.
3.        It is estimated that the direct area of influence 1/ of the 5,700-km
national network embraces 80-90% of the population, and that the 5,000-km
regional network affects the remaining 20-10%. It is likely that most of the
road development priorities for the next 20 years are located on these two
networks.
Levels of development
4.        The identification of development levels and priorities is based on
economic analysis. Initial cost-benefit analyses of all road sections will be
followed by more detailed feasibility studies on those sections showing the
best cost-benefit ratios. As these analyses progress, an accompanying road
data management system will be set up. The long-term objective is rational
management of the roads network assisted by a HDM-type model.
5.        The development levels selected are of four types.  The paved road
(route bitumée - RB) and the modern gravel road (route en terre moderne -
RTM) in principle represent the national primary network. The earth road
(route en terre - RT) with lower traffic projections in principle belongs to
the national secondary network. Lightly-traveled tracks (pistes - P)
represent the regional tertiary network. Each category has its own standards
and techniques, which vill be gradually developed to ensure their
1/   Understood to be the 20-km wide strip of which the road represents the
center line.



- 34 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 6
appropriateness to local conditions. Without anticipating the findings of
future economic studies, the layout of the national primary and secondary
network, with its three levels of development: RB, RTM, RT, as presented in
map No. 21019, will serve as a basis for reaching decisions on apptopriate
highway renewal and construction activities in the coming 5-15 years.
6.        The concept of development by stages, leading from RTM to RB level,
is implicitly adopted. The country's difficult relief, the extremely high
rainfall, and the delay in setting up a suitable mainterance system justify a
low paving threshold. The concept of spot improvements, making it possible to
postpone major investments while keeping roads open to traffic, is also
adopted. This type of localized action, which relates essentially to drainage
systems and wearing course renewal, falls between the operations of
development by stages, periodic maintenance, and emergency operations.
Road network development strategy
7.        The tradeoff between meeting urgent needs and keeping options open
for the future has led to the following rehabilitation priority strategy for
the next 3-5 years:
(a) rehabilitation of existing paved-road network;
(b) launching of the construction of highways bel?nging to the national
primary network, RB level;
(c) setting up of a spot improvement program for the rest of the
national primary network;
(d) rehabilitation of part of the regional network, coordinating the
development of this network with that of the national network; and
(e) resumption of routine maintenance on rehabilitated roads and tracks.
8.        The implementation of this strategy has been tested through a reveiw
of (i) ongoing operations, (ii) typical construction and maintenance costs,
and (iii) different programmings with a 20-year horizon (1988-2007). The
global objectives to be achieved within this 20-year horizon demand an effort
comparable to that made by Guinea's neighbors in the 60s and 70s. These
objectives are: (i) on the national network: paving of 1,880 km; 1,010 km of
RTM developm.ent; 1,515 km of RT-level development; and (ii) on the regional
network: development of 5,000 km of tracks. The total cost of this program
is US$1,081 million (1987 value), or an average of US$54 million a year
(approximately 25% of currently programmed PIP investments).
Costs of road network development
9.        A breakdown of expenditures under the selected scenario shtws 36% of
funds allocated to the national network (RN) and 14% to the regional
network (RR). These proportions substantially reflect the respective share of
transport on the two networks. With respect to the national network, an
average of 77% of expenditure would be devoted to investment, 18% to
maintenance of the rehabilitated network, and 4% to the spot improvement
program. During the first five years (1988-1992), investment would represent



- 35 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 6
86% of expenditure, spot improvements 11%, and road maintenance only 3%. The
share of maintenance would increase gradually to reach around 54% of
expenditure in 2004. (See table below.)
GUINEA
ROAD NETWORK DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Total                      Breakdown US$/m
US$/m     %               RN     %       RR    _
1988-2007
Investment                   839       77            714      77    125      80
Maintenance                  200       18            168      18     32       20
Spot improvements             44        4             44       5      -        -
Total                      1,083      100            926    100    157       100
Percentage                                            86             14
1988-1992
Investment                   226 a/   86             200             26
Maintenance                   10        3               9             1
Spot improvements             28       il             28
Total US$/m                  264      100            237             27
Annual average                52.8                    47.4            5.4
a/   Including ongoing operations and those whose financing is assured,
representing approximately 76 million.
Institutional aspects
10.       Over the medium/long term, DGTP will gradually become
decentralized.      In the short term, to meet its responsibilities and handle
its increased workload on the national network, DGTP will:
(a)  transfer to the Ministry of Rural Development its responsibilities
as contracting authority (maître d'ouvrage) on the regional
network linking the subprefectures to the national network;
(b)  call upon the technical assistance services for help with study
planning and supervisien, while attempting to promote the emergence
of a domestic engineering sector;
(c)  develop a training policy to improve the skills of its mid-level
managers through theoretical training and practical on-site
ex-perience during construct.ion and maintenance activities;
(d)  entrust works execution, particularly the spot improvement program,
to the private aector; and



- 36 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 6
(e) continue its efforts to entrust the routine maintenance of
rehabilitated road sections to lengthmen (cantonniers, tâcherons)
or small contractors.
il.       Within about five years, DGTP will develop a recovery policy for its
territorial units. Increased responsibilities will then be entrusted to those
units in the areas of periodic and routine maintenance, network management,
and assistance to the regional authorities.



!37-
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 6
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Politique de Développement du Réseau Routier
Road Network Development Policy
I.   INVESTISSEMENT
RB                  Objectifs Physiques              Coût      Total
en cours          (Phvsical Obiectives)             (Cost)      PIP
(Ongoing)      RB        RTM       RT       P           i/
Km           Km         Km         Km      Km     US$ m       USS m
1986         2%1                                               13
1987        176                                                54
1988        470                                                43          182
1989        454           50                          100      37          207
1990        170          150                          250      46          238
1991                     200                          350      50          281
1992                     200                          350      50
1993                     130        160               450      60
1994                     130        160     100       350      65
1995                     130        160     100       350      65
1996                     130        160     100       350      65
1997                     130        160     100       350      65
1998                     130         40     150       300      53
1999                     130         40     150       300      40
2000                     130         40     150       300      40
2001                     130         40     150       300      40
2002                     110         50     200       300      41
2003                                        200       300      22
2004                                        115       300      16
2005
2006
2007
Total   1,290        1,880     1,010   1,515    5,000
Coît      143          389       136      112       125     905
a/ Coût de base/Base co0t June 1987



- 38 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 6
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Politique de Développement du Réseau Routier
Road Network Develoxment Policy
II.   ENTRETIEN (US$m)
Points Critiques l/
CSyot Imorovement)
Total
Overall
Budget
RB       RTM      RT      RB       RTM       P         Total    Current
-                   -       -_        -                USS4M   Expenditures
1986   0.03                                                  0.03
1987   0.26                                                  0.26
1988   0.88                       2.90      3.63             7.41         63
1989   1.54                       2.55      3.63   0.06      7.78         66
1990   1.96                       2.09      3.63   0.20      7.88         69
1991   2.22                       1.63      3.63   0.39      7.88         72
1992   2.49                       1.33      3.27   0.59      7.67
1993   2.66    0.21               1.04      2.90   0.84      7.64
1994   2.83    0.41    0.12       0.74      2.53   1.04      7.67
1995   3.00    0.62    0.24       0.44      2.16   1.23      7.69
1996   3.20    1.98    0.37       0.14      1.79   1.43      8.91
1997   3.60    3.69    0.49                 1.43   1.62    10.95
1998   4.26    3.74    0.67                 1.06   1.79    11.61
1999   4.82    4.95    0.96                 0.69   1.96    13.44
2000   5.35    5.00    1.14                 0.32   2.13    13.99
2001   5.58    5.69    1.33                        2.30    14.89
2002   6.64    5.78    1.57                        2.46    16.45
2003   8.74    5.78    1.87                        2.63    19.02
2004   9.03    4.92    2.01                        2.80    18.75
2005   7.23    7.64    2.01                        2.80    19.78
2006   6.35    6.25    2.01                        2.80    17.41
2007   6.59    4.92    2.06                        2.80    16.36
Total 89.34   61.58   16.82      12.86    30.68  31.86   243.48
(US$m)
1/  Sur réseau primaire existant en attendant aménagement au niveau RB ou
RTM
On existing primary network to be upgraded to RB or RTM standards.
March, 1988
AFlIN



- 39 -
ANNEX. 3-5
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Caractéristique du Parc et du Trafic
Characteristics of the Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
I.       Caractéristiques du Parc/Fleet Characteristics
1986
Vehicules légerslPassenger cars           19,000
Cammionnette/Station Wagon                3,000
Autobus Bus                                1,000
Camions/Trucks                             4.000
Total                                  27,000
Il.      Composition du Trafic/Traffic Distribution
V L    SW             llT     20T
(PC)   BUS     _
Route bitumé/Paved road            49    24       19     6        2
Route en terrelUnpaved roads       36    31       27     6        0
III.     Volume du Trafic/Traffic Volume
-------Routes bituméesIPaved Roade -------
Classe                                       Volume Annuel
TMJ                           TMJ           Annual Volume
ADT           Km              ADT             V/Km/Million
O - 100       447               82                 13.38
100 - 200        48              150                  2.63
200 - 300       285              261                 27.15
300 - 400        55              300                  6.02
400 - 500       133              411                 19.95
500 -1000       147              809                 43.41
>1000        36             2486                 32.67
S/Total       1,151                                 145.21
------ Toutes en terre/UnDaved roads ------
O -  50      5122               29                 54.22
50 - 100       555               78                 15.80
100 - 200       174              114                  7.24
200 - 300        58              268                  5.67
5909                                 82.93
IV.      Trafic total/Total traffic 1986
Interurban/Interuban (106 VxXm)      228.13
Urbain/Urban          (106 VxKm)       NA
Sources Plan de transport/Transportation Plan (1987-1996).
March, 1988
AlIIN



- 40 -
Annex 3-6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Price Strutcture of Petroleum Produnts 1/
Catexory                                      Co0t or tax
(GF/liter)
CIF                                              62.0 2/
Port charges                                      0.1
Customs duty                                     12.0
TSPP                                            135.0
Storage fee                                       1.3
12 losses                                         1.2
Financial charges                                 3.0
Distribution margin                               4.0
Transport cost                                   13.2
Retailer margin                                   6.2
Difference (Stabilization Tax)              12.0
Average price at the pump                  250.0
1/   This structure relates to diesel fuel; since the import price of gasoline
per liter is practically identical, the same structure can be applied to
that product.
2/   Equivalent to US$0.138 per liter.
Source:  Study of road taxes, Alain Bernard (Consultant), November 1987.



-- 41  -                             Annex 3- 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Local Investment and Maintenance Costs
(Routine and Periodic) - Ten-Year AveraRe
Investment (Intercitv Roads1
Annual average for primary and secondary roads of the National Road
Network ......................................   US$ 54.0 million (M)
10  local contribution           ..              US$  5.4 M
Annual average for the rural roads of
the Regional Road Network .............. ........  US$  0.7 M
Maintenance (Intercity Roads)
Annual average for paved roads  i; .. .......... US$  3.6 M
Annual average for gravel roads 1/    ....... US$  1.1 M
Annual average for earth roade  l/ .............   US$  0.2 M
Annual average for rural roads  l/ .............   US$  1.0 M
Total                                      US$ 12.0 M
Investment 10Z local contribution and
Maintenance Urban R     oads ............             .................. US$  1.8 M
Total needs... .. ..  .    ........ . US$ 13.8 M
- FG 6.2 billion
1i   100Z local contribution
Source: Study of the User Charges, Alain Bernard (Consultant), IDA Mission
March 1988
AFlIN
JSbu:jmh



- 42 -
Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Dubreka-Kolaboui Road
1.        The 199-km coastal road from Dubreka to Kolaboui links the country's
tWQ principal ports and gives access to a rich hinterland. The road's area of
influence, affecting 122 of the country, has significant economic development
potential in the farming and mining sectors.  The first part of the road, from
Dubreka to Boffa, is the country's most heavily trafficked earth road.
2.        On this 95-km section from Dubreka to Boffa, the present roadway,
7-10 meters wide, cuts a winding path across a relief of wooded hills; it is
open to traffic all year long, but is difficult for vehicles to negotiate in
the rainy season. The second part of the road, 4 meters wide, runs in a
cutting for 104 km from Boffa to Kolaboui. It cuts straight across a flat
savanna, and it is inaccessible to traffic for three months of the year during
the rainy season. Rainfall in the region is intense (4 meters a year), the
river network is dense, and the laterite soils are relatively plastic. The
Fatala River, 1,000 meters wide, is crossed at Boffa by a ferry, reached by
precarious access ramps.
3.        Feasibility and technical studies have been performed by Louis
Berger International (US). The final design, financed by the kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, vas completed in 1979. LBI is currently updating
the project, financed by IDA credit No. 1457-GUI; the bidding documents, in
two lots, are available, and require only a minimum of work to adapt them to
the specific requirements of the donors.
4.        The project provides for the construction, for a design speed of 100
km/hour, of a paved road 7 meters wide, bordered by two shoulders each 1.5
meters wide. The pavement is dimensioned from Dubreka to the Fria
intersection for type T2 traffic (100,000 - 1,000,000 13-ton axle equivalents)
and for type Tl traffic (lover than 100,000 axle equivalents over a 15-year
period) for the rest of the route.  In lot No. 1, from Dubreka to the Fatala
river, the base course in crushed-run materials rests on a laterite
foundation; in lot No. 2, the base course will be of lateritic material
stabilized with cement. The double surface treatments could, as an
alternative, be replaced by sand binder 4 cm thick. The shoulders are
protected by a single surface treatment (lot 1) and a sand impregnation
(lot 2).
5.        The Guinean Government is considering the construction of a bridge
over the Fatala river. A recognized northern alternative is in competition
with a southern alternative following the old telephone route; a ferry
crossing is possible by the southern alternative. The fork to the crossing on
the left bank, at point A, is close to Soumbouyadi. The corresponding point
B on the right bank is close to Domingya. The choice of place and type of
crossing will need to be made before construction reaches points A and B.



- 43 -
Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 6
6.        If the proposel to bridge the river is rejected, the Fatala will be
crossed by ferry by the southern alternative. The present ferry will be moved
3 km upstream, on the southern route. The repair and management of the ferry
are already being financed by the CCCE as part of the River Crossings
operation. In this case, and since the CCCE would also have to finance the
execution of lot 1, this lot would run from Dubreka to point B (97.5 km),
using the southern alternative, and would include upgrading of the ferry
access ramps. Lot No. 2 would run from Kolaboui to point B (98 km), but, to
keep future options open, the cost estimate of lot No. 2 assumes that the
northern route is used (104 km).
7.        Whichever lot is considered, the works can be carried out in 20
months for each lot, starting from Dubreka for lot No. 1 and from Kolaboui for
lot No. 2. The execution timetable will be as follows, starting from the
effective date of the financing:
Time needed
(months)
-    Conclusion of supervision contract                  2
-    PrPequalification, preparation of bidding
documents                                     3
-    Bidding                                             2
-    Opening of bids                                     1
-    Contract preparation and signature                  2
-    Contract notification                               1
Subtotal                                     il
-    Works execution                                    20
Total                                        31
8.        For each lot, the supervision mission will participate in, or be
responsible for: (i) prqualification (invitation, opening and analysis of
responses, recommendations); (ii) preparation and publication of bidding
documents; (iii` invitation to bid, opening and analysis of bids,
recommendations; (iv) contract preparation; and (v) works supervision. The
expatriate personnel on the supervision mission will comprise a mission chief
(24 months), a geotechnician (18 months), a works foreman (20 months) and a
bridge engineer (10 months). A single laboratory, belonging to the
contractor, will be set up and made available to the supervision mission for
purposes of comparative testing. The mission will also arrange for the
training of four interns, in groups of two, over a 10-month period. The cost
of supervision is estimated at around 3% of the cost of the works, for 71
manmonths.



-44 -
ANNEX 4-1
REPUBLIQUE DE   IPae 3 of 6
QUATRIEHE PROJET ROUTIER
DUBREKA - KOLABOUI
Fiche Technique TechnicAl Data
CaractéristiqueslCharacteristics
Vitesse de base/Desigu speed                 100 km/h
Chaussée/Pavement                            7.0 m
Accotement/Shoulders                         1.5 m
Trafic/Traffic
Dubreka - bifurcation Fria              T2
Bifurcation Fria - Kolaboui             Tl
Ponts Existants/Existing bridges             Réparés/Repaired
Loti Lot 2
Revêtement/Surface dressing                  ESC/DST       ESD/DST
Alternative                                  Sand Asphalt  Sand Asphalt
BaselBase                                    Concasses/    Lateritel
Crush run     ciment
Fondation/Sub-base                           Laterite      Laterite
AccotementiShoulders                         ESS/SST        Sablage
(priming +
sand)
Longeur/Length
Alternative nord1North (199 km)              95 (km)        104 (km)
Alternative sud/South (196.5 km)             97.5 (km)       99 (km)



- 45 -
ANNEK 4-1
REPULIOQUE DE GUIN                   Page 4 of 6
QUATRIHE PROJET ROUTIER
DUBEEKA - KOLABOUI
Fiche Techbique ITechalcal Data
2. Volume Quantities
J   Terrassemnts               ot 1           Lot 2         Earthworks
as    Déblais en rmeblais    1,250,000       1,!00,000       Cuts ln fill
3    Remblais demprunt          340,000        330,000       Borrov fill
3    Déblais rocheux            130,000         41,000       Rock cute
Chaussée                                               Pavement
d3    Fondation                 151,000         162,000      Sub-base
Us    Base                      107,000        113,000       Base
t     Ciment                          -         68,000       Cement
.3bk  Transport               4,450,000      1,370,000       nauling
t     Impregnation (ol)           1,076          1,150       Priming
t     Bitume fluxé                2,100          1,900       Cutback
U3    Granulat                   14,260         15,000       Aggregates
Drainame
m     Buses                       1,870          3,100       Culverts
US    Bétons                      7,200         5S660        Concrete
t     Aeiers                        410       -    310       Steel
mi    Posses                     24,400         15,700       Ditches
Ponts                                                  BridRes
US    Béton$                      3,800           5,750      Contrete
t     Acier                         210            520       Steel
mi    Garde-corps                   424             946      Guardrail
u     Reparation                      9               -      Repaire



- 46 -
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE                 ANNEX 4-1
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER               Page 5 of 6
DUBREKA - KOLABOUI
Devis Estimatif/Cost Estimate
Lot 1      Lot 2    Total
Installation                   1.916       1.561    3.477    Camp site
Terrassement                   9.138       9.034   18.172    Earthworks
Chaussée                       9.739       9.006   18.735    Pavement
Drainage                       7.858       6.671   14.529    Drainage
Ouvrages                       3.876       5.007    8.883    Bridges
Divers                         0.410       0.404    0.814    Miscellaneous
Coùt de Base (US$ m)          32.927      31.683   64.610    Base Cost
Contingencies
Imprévus                       1.543       1.417    2.960    Physical
Révision                       3.500       3.900    7.400    Financial
SITotal (US$ m)             37.970     37.000   74.97        Sub-total
Contrôle                       1.00        1.00     2.00      Supervision
Imprévus                       0.05        0.05     0.10     Physical C.
Révision                       0.13        0.15     0.28     Financial C
S/Total (US$ m)              1.18       1.20      2.38       Sub-total
Calendrier                                                    Schedule
1989 (Z)                    31          4        18        1989 (t)
1990 (Z)                    69         62        66        1990 (Z)
1991 (Z)                               34        16        1991 (Z)
Sources  Consultant estimate - US$l - FF 5.7 - FG 456.



- 47 -
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER               AMNEX  4-1
DUBREKA - KOLABOUI                  Page 6 Ôf 6
Calendrier/Implementation Schedule
Génie Civil    Contrôle
Civil Work   Supervision      Total
Lot 1                                                         Lot 1
1989                  11.48         0.36         11.84        1989
1990                  26.49         0.82         27.31        1990
1991                                                          1991
Total (US$ m)       37.97         1.18         39.15          Total
Base                32.92         1.00         33.92          Base cost
Imprévus               1.54         0.05          1.59        Physical Cont.
Inflation              3.50         0.13          3.63       Financial Cont.
Lot 2                                                         Lot 2
1989                   1.42         0.05          1.47        1989
1990                  22.87         0.74         23.61        1990
1991                  12.71         0.41         13.12       1991
Total (US$ m)      37.00          1.20         38.20          Total
Base                31.68         1.00         32.68       Base cost
Imprévus               1.42         0.05          1.47       Physical Cont.
Inflation              3.90         0.15          4.05       Financial Cont.
- - - - Lot 1 - - - - -    - - - - Lot 2 - - - - -
Devises   Total             Devises   Total
Local  Foreign   US$ m      Local  Foreign   USS m
TravauxsCivil Vorks
Coût de base               3.30    29.62   32.92       3.17    28.51   31.68
Imprévus                   0.15     1.39    1.54       0.15      1.27    1.42
Révision                   1.13     2.37    3.50       1.32      2.58    3.90
Contrôle/Supervision
Coùt de base               0.17     0.83    1.00       0.17      0.83    1.00
Imprévus                   0.01     0.04    0.05       0.01      0.04    0.05
Révision                   0.06     0.07    0.13       0.07      0.08    0.15
Sources Consultant, IDA Mlission, Février 1988.
May 1988
AFlIN



- 48 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Mamou-Dabola - Kouroussa-Kankan Road
1.        The Mamou-Kankan road runs from east to west for around 400 km
through the center of Guinea, following a corridor parallel to the
Conakry-Kankan railroad, inaugurated in 1914 and practically out of service
today. This road is a link in the major Conakry-Kankan-Nzerekore axis, which
constitutes the backbone of highway communications with Mali, Liberia, and
Côte d'Ivoire. The Mamou-Kankan road, part of the traditional system of
access to Upper Guinea, represents the shortest way between Guinea's two
principal cities and provides access to the central regions of Dabola-
Kouroussa-Dinguiraye, where there is great mining and farming potential.
2.        The present road, 4-6 meters wide, runs in part across the
mountainous relief of middle Guinea and the plateaus of Upper Guinea. Despite
the efforts of the heavy-works brigade of the Office du Projet Routier (OPR),
traffic conditions are difficult, the road being impassable in the rainy
season. Difficulty of trading represents a heavy drag on economic
development, and contributes to the inward orientation of this vast central
region.
3.        The technical study launched by the government in 1986 was carried
out by the firm of Philipin Techniks. The final technical dossier was
prepared by the Techniks-Ingeroute (France) group witlh IDA financing (Credit
1457-GUI). The bidding documents, in five lots, are available, and require
only a minimum of work to adapt them to the specific requirements of the
donors.
4.        The project provides for the construction of a paved road between
Mamou and Kankan (402 km) by means of a double surface treatment, 6 meters
wide, with two shoulders each 1.5 meters wide. The pavement, dimensioned for
Tl-type traffic, will be constructed from the natural lateritic materials
abounding in the region, which are of good quality and consequently do not
require cement stabilization. The existing, generally one-lane, bridges, will
be kept after repair. The Niger River between Kouroussa and Kankan will be
crossed by ferry. The project base speed will be 40 km per hour in
mountainous areas and 70 km per hour in the plateau. The weighted base speed
is 60 km per hour. The project presents no major technical difficulties;
however, particular care needs to be paid to erosion control and drainage in
the mountainous areas.
5.        The division of this road into five lots responds to such technical
criteria as availability of access roads, location of quarries and location of
urban centers. The financial dimension of each lot, from US$11-16 million, is
attractive to international competition, while still being reasonable.
It is possible to consider groupings of lots. In the five separate lot
hypothesis, construction should take 20 months; with the two



- 49 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 7
groupings, around 40 months will be needed. The cost reduction to be expected
from handling the lots as two groups would partly be lost through the
increased inflat40n ratio resulting from longer execution periods.
6.        The supervision mission for each lot would be composed of a team
comprising: one highway engineer as chef de lot (16 months), one
geotechn'cian (14 months), one works foreman (14 months).  The support staff
would include: one secretary, two topography operators, three laborers and
three drivers. Equipment would consist of one all-terrain vehicle, two
pick-ups, one microcomputer with its software, one typuwriter, one level and
one tachymeter, and assorted drafting and publication supplies. The logistic
support, consisting of furnished housing and offices and their maintenance,
the laboratory and the corresponding personnel, will be included among the
services to be provided by the civil engineering contractor.
7.        For the lots as a whole, the supervision mission should also include
a geotechnical engineer (20 months), to be seconded to Kankan or Mamou. A
bridge engineer (3 montns) vill carry out specific assignments. In addition,
for the lots as a whole, there will be a director of supervision (30 months),
who will be based in Conakry and will have a secretariat and calculating and
publication facilities.
8.        The director of supervision will be responsible for (i)
qualification (invitation, opening and analysis of responses, recommendations,
monitoring); (ii) preparation and publication of bidding documents tailored to
to the donors' requirements; (iii) invitation to bid, (letter of invitation,
organized visit to sites, explanations); (iv) opening and analysis of bids,
recommendations, monitoring of procedures; (v) contract preparation and
monitoring of approval procedures; (vi) notification of contracts, review of
the scheduling of the various levels of supervision for each lot. Once
construction is under way, the director of supervision will (i) guarantee
technical coordination in terms of standards and norms, so as to bring a
consistent approach to identical problems arising on the different lots; (ii)
provide a monthly wrap-up of progress reports, works invoices, monitoring of
accounts, and financial monitoring and forecasting; (iii) serve as delegated
engineer, pursuant to the special bidding conditions, in which capacity he
will assist the contracting authority [maître d'ouvrage].
9.        Whichever lot is considered, the works should take 20 months to
complete, i.e. two dry seasons. The execution timetable would be as follows,
starting from the effective date of the financing:
Time
(months)
Conclusion of supervision contract               2
Prequalification, preparation of bidding
documents                                  3
Bidding                                          2
Opening of bids                                  1
Contract preparation and signature               2
Contract notification                            1
Construction                                    20
Total                                     31



- 50 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 7
10.       Construction and supervision costs are broken down in the following
table. Costs are shown net of taxes and include physical and financial
contingencies.
Lot               Length            Civil engineering
(km)                US$ million
1                 73.3                   18.21
2                 73.0                   15.01
3                 73.1                   13.87
4                 88.6                   17.03
5                 94.0                   19.25
Total             402.0                   83.38
Supervision                                3.94



- 51 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4 of 7
REPUOL!QUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIESXPROJET ROUTIER
MAMOU-MKANKAN
Fiche TeçhntcuejTechnical Date
Lot1    Lot2    Lot 8       Lot 4    Lot C
Terrassements        U  (7.8ik) (78T k) (7iEYTk-) (08.dt0k) (9-4. k)            Earthworka
Déblais sn Rmbelas  m  209,000   190,0       82,000  109,000    70,000          Cute In fl11
Rumblais d'omprunt   d8 472,000  879,000  608,000  064,0eo  804,000            Borrow fl 1
Déblais rocheux      es  18,000   12,0        1,600    2,0e       1,000        Rock cut
Chaussés                                                                       Pavement
Fondation            d8  111,000  111,600   109,000  132,000   14,000           Sub-bash
Bass                 .8 100,000  108,000  104,000  128,000  188,00M            Bas
Transport          m8ké S22,000  628,000 1,061,600 1,280,000 1,884,000         Hnuling
Imprégnation         t       000      a000       30       060       680        Priming
Liant enduit         t    1.140    1,100    1,020    1,240        1,290         Cut bock
Oranulate            es  18,100   12,740   11,740   14,200   14,800             Ageregats
Drainae                                                                            i2piL
Buse.                MI   2,S00    2,500    1,470    1,960    2,260            turverz
Perrés               %2   17,8O      8,900   16,700   11,900   19,400          Slope protection
Fosuss                s   6,800    8,600        620       910       490        Ditche-
Ponta                                                                          Brldes
Bétons               d8   2,040        560    1,100    1,870        680         Concret*
Acle-r               t       181       44        77       114        sa        Steal
Réparations          u         8         8        a         4         a         Repaire
Sources Consultant'. Flnal Dsslgn.



-52 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 5 of 7
REPfUBLU  E    DLUNEE
NAUOU-KANKAN
UlMsion de contr$le/Sumervlsion minslon
1.  Contr8le pour un lot/Supervislon ot on. lot
Q   PU (FFI     Total FF
Chef lot                TUk         o6,00           1,04,00         Hed o.f lot
G otechnllen           14          66,000            770,000       CeotechnicTan
Conducteur              14          66,000            770,000       Forosan
Personnel local         18          le, o             180,000       Local Staff
Equlpemunt               1         466,000            456,000       Equlpent
Voyages                  8          12,000            ffO,00        Int*l travel
Total (FF) I/                                     8,811,0oe
2. Exporte Sectori-los  pour cinq lots)ISectorill Experte (f iv  lots)
Ing. Ouvrages deort      8          80,000            240,000       Oridge Engr.
Ing. C otechnielen      20          70,000          1,400,W0        C<otechnician
Logistique              20          ao,ooo            6oe,0w        Logl-tic
Equipement               1          so,ae              80,ow        Equipeent
Voyages                 10           12,000           120,0W        IntVl travel
Total FF                                          2,244,000
a. Dlrecteur ContrOle (pour cina lots*)Head of Ulsslon ( tive lots)
Directeur               ao          8s,0a           2,40W,000       l4ead ot Lisslon
Loglstlque              se           8o,ooo           900,000       Loglstic
Equlpos nt               1         100,800            180,000-      Equipment
Voyages                 26           12,080           80a,000   -   Int'l travel
Total FF                                          8,700,000
1J USSI = FF 6.7.
Source:  Consultant*$ nstites.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4-2
REPUBLIDUE DE GUINEE               rage 6 of 7
QUATIEME PRUJET R WTFIER
MANOW-KANKAN
Devlse Eaitlmtif/Cost Estlmte
1.  Génle Clvil                                                                       1.  Clvil Works
Lot 1    Lot 2    Lot 8   Lot 4    Lot S    Total
Installation           1.885    1.882    1.882   1.400    1.402                   Camp site
Terrassementa           8.869    8.290    8.832   4.271    4.788                  Earthworke
Chaussés                8.246    8.260    8.370   4.094    6.062                  Pavement
Refv8lment              1.886    1.818    1.214   1.728    1.642                  Surface trest.
Ouvrages                1.286    0.820    0.808   0.812    0.861                  Bridges
Drainage                2.019    2.170    0.943   1.118    1.402                  Drainage
Divers                  1.016    0.41S    0.161   0.098    0.917                  Miscellaneous
Réparatlon Ponta        0.0S5    0.062    0.264   0.824    0.084                  Repair of Bridges
CoOt de base (.S8 a)  14.81    12.21    11.28   18.8S   1.ô6    67.80
Imprévue               1.48      1.22     1.18    1.89      1.67     6.78
Révision                1.92     1.68     1.46    1.80      2.08     8.80
1989 (41)              0.70      0.58     0.65    0.68      0.74     8.21
1990 (62%)            11.2"      9.28     8.67   10.58    11.90    61.54
1991 (841)             6.26      5.16     4.7ô    6.25      6.61    28.64
Total US  a         18.21    11.01    18.87   17.08    19.26    83.89
- - - - Lot 1 - - - - -      - - - - Lot 2 - - - - -    - - - - Lot 8 - - - - -
Local   Devises   Total    Local   Devises   Total   Local   Devises   Total
esse           1.48    18.88.  14.81       1.22    10.99    12.21    1.18    10.15    11.28
Imprévus       0.15      1.88     1.48     0.12     1.10      1.22    0.11      1.02     1.18
Révision       0.65      1.27     1.92     0.64.   1.04       1.58    0.50     0.96      1.48
- - - - Lot 4    - -   ---Lot S ----  - - - - Total - - - - -
Local   Devlses   Total    Local   Devises   Total   Local   Devises   Total
Base           1.89    12.46    18.8S      1.67    14.08    15.86    0.78    61.02    07.80
Imprévue       0.14     1.2S      1.89     0.10     1.41      1.52    0.68     8.10      0.78
Révision       0.61      1.19     1.80     0.69      1.84     2.08    2.98      6.82     8.80



- 54 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 7 of 7
Sectoriel     Head of
2.  ContrOle         Fl-ld Offtces        Expert       MiUolon                      2.  Sunorvision
Crou» T rràln       Experte     Direction      Total
Un iot   Clnq_iot_     Sectorlois   Contril.     US$ (a)
CoOt do base    a.5       2.90         *.89         0.06         S.94           Bsse cout
Imprévue        0.06      o.a         0.04          0.07         0.41           Phynlcal Conting.
Révision        *.09      0.46         0.06         *.19         *.81           Financlxi  Conting.
1989 (41)       1.e8      0.15        0.02          1.01         *.2l
1990 (21)    0.45         2.25        e.ae          a."0         s.e6
1991 (841)    0.26        1.25        1.17          1.28         1.70
Total (USS a) 0.78      J.08        0.49          0.82         4.90
- - - - un lot - - - - -     - ---  cinq lots - - -
Local    Devis..   Total    Local   Devis.x   Total
Buo-             0.10       0.48    0.58       0.49     2.41     2.90           Bns. cout
Imprévue         0.01       0.0     8.0e8      1.06     0.26     1.80           Physical Conting.
Révislon         0.04       0.05    0.0"       0.22     0.28     0.48           Flnanclal Conting.
- Experts Sectorlols - -     - -Dlrction Contr8l.- -
Bes-             0.07       0.82    0.89       0.11     0.54     0.06           Bas. coot
Imprévus         0.01       0.08    0.04       0.01     0.05     0.06           Physical Conting.
Révision         O.08       0.08      .06      0.05     0.06     0.10           Financlal Conting.
Total Contr8l.
Bsae             0.67       8.27    8.94                                        Berne coot
Imprévus         0.07       0.84    0.41                                        Physlcal Conting.
Révlsion         0.80       0.81    0.01                                        Financlal  Conttng.
Sourcet Consultant end IDA.
Nerch, 1988
AFlIN



- 55 -
Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Spot Improvement Component
Existing situation
1.        Guinea's road network, with the exception of a few sections, is in a
state of total decay. Average speeds in the dry season are on the order of
25-30 km per hour. In the rainy season, traffic is blocked at numerous
critical points. The concepts of routine and periodic maintenance that apply
to a network even in poor but passable condition have no meaning in the
present case. The need to reopen at least the roads of the national primary
network on a year-round basis demands either complete reconstruction, followed
by routine and periodic maintenance, or spot improvement to eliminate the
critical points.
Purpose of the works
2.        The spot improvement works are designed to reestablish the
accessibility of unpaved priority roads. These intermediate works, falling
between systematic reconstruction, improvised emergency maintenance, and
scheduled periodic maintenance, should make it possible, for less cost, to
avait the stage of complete reconstruction.
Definition
3.        Spot improvement woris include (i) limited earthworks to raise
embankments in the low-lying areas; or, on flat terrain, to replace the
existing "sunken tracks" (piste canal) by a light embankment; or to
eliminate landslides; or to refashion slipped cuttings or embankments;
(ii) regraveling after reshaping and compacting of sections constructed of
plastic materials; (iii) reconstruction of drainage structures such as
outfalls, ditches, culverts, and erosion control works; and (iv) rehabili-
tation of bridges and river crossings (program already undertaken with CCCE
financing). The purpose of the works is not to meet specific "base speed"
standards, but to reopen the road permanently to traffic. The need for
topographical and geotechn4cal studies vill be limited.  The quantities
estimates will be simplified to enable supervisors to pay more attention to
the quality of the works.
4.        The spot improvement concept vill gradually be developed by DGTP.
This effort will be reflected in the publication of a manual, which will
inc..ude:
(a)  a highway inventory methodology, specifically formulated for spot
improvements, with model inventory sheets;
(b) terms of reference for diagnostic road study and final design
preparation accompanied by a set of standard unit prices to pay the
consulting firms;



- 56 -
Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 4
(c) technical specifications for works execution, accompanied by a set
of standard -,nit prices to pay for the works;
(d)  standard designs for drainage structures, culvert inverts, erosion
control works, small bridges; and
(e) a set of standard bidding documents and contract models for studies,
supervision, and execution.
Program execution
5.        The annual programming and corresponding action plan will be
prepared by DGTP and discussed with IDA by October 31 each year. DGTP will be
supported by technical assistance services recruited under the Transport
Sector Project. Production of the technical dossiers and bidding documents,
works supervision, and manual preparation (paragraph 4) will be entrusted to a
consulting firm.  This f -m will be recruited through international bidding,
in time to submit the bidding documents by June 30 each year or, in the case
of the first-year program, before December 31, 1988.
6.        The works will be contracted out.  The first contract, to be
performed over a period of around four years, at a cost (net of contingencies
and price revision) on the order of US$6 million, for the execution of about
520 km of works, will be avarded on the basis of international bidding.
Subsequent contracts will be awarded on the basis of international bidding if
their cost is over US$1.5 million, but if it is lower, the bidding may be
conducted locally. Table 4-3.1 shows the initial annual programming and the
cost of the spot improvement component.
7.        The cost of the spot improvement program is estimated at around
US$12,000 per km, or approximately the equivalent of 10-12% of the cost of
building a new mid-level (RTM/RT) road, or the equivalent of 25% of the
average cost of traditional earth road reconstruction. For a given budget,
the snot imurovement vrogram vill make it possible to reopen to,year-round
traffic four times as many roads as would a reconstruction program. However,
for lack of experience, and because of the wide diversity of climates,
reliefs, and soils found in Guinea, the estimated average cost can mask very
wide cost variations, depending on the road sections selected.



.
- 57 -
ANNEX 4-3
?age 3 of /
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEIE PROJET ROUTIER
Elimination des Points CritiquesISpot ImProvement Component
(Données Physiques et FinancièreslPhysical and Financial Data)
1. Cofits movensIAveraRe costs
Duquel/of which
DescriptionI Item                                  US /m   Local
a.  Génie Civil/Civil Works
Terrassements/Earthworks                       1000      100
Latéritage/Regravelling                        2000      200
DrainagelDrainage                               8000     800
Ouvrages/Bridges                                1000     100
Coùt de Base/Base cost                        12000    1200
ImprévuslPhysical contingencies (15Z)          1800      200
b.  Services
EtudelDesign                                     360      60
Contrôle/Supervision                            1400     240
Coat de base/Base cost                          1760     260
Imprévus/Physical contingencies (152)           260       40
2.  Obiectifs Phvsiques/Physical Oblectives
Réalisation/Implementation Schedule (km)
Contrat/Contract               Km     1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Génie Civil
1989                      520 a/  160    200    110      50
1990                      340            140    100      50     50
1991                      340                   120    110    110
1992                      300                           130    170
S/Total (Km)                 1500     160    340    330    340    330
EtudeslDesign            1500     860    340    300
Contrôle/Supervision    1500      160    340    330    340    330
a/ En principe Labe-Seriba-Koundara-F Sénégal (250 km) et Kankan-Beyla
(270 km).
Source: Mission estimates March 1988.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIQUE DE WUINEE
QU-tRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Eliminatlon des points critiqu-sESpot Improvements
Devtn Estmantit/Calendrier
Cost Estlato/Sch-dule of Implementation
- -         Projet - - - - -        - - - - Financement - - - -
Travaux     Servies    Total        Travaux  Services    Total
1989         2.38        0.67       3.06        2.11       0.ô7       2.77
1990         6.24        0.78       6.02        4.69       0.78       5.38
1991         6.14        0.76       5.90        4.48       0.76       6.23
1992         6.37        0.64       6.01        4.65       6.64       6.30
1993         S.82        6.64       6.96        4.68       6.64       5.22
Total    23.45         8.49      26.94       20.41       3.49      23.90
Base        18.00        2.64      20.64       16.20        2.64     18.84       Base
Imprévus     2.70        0.40       8.10        2.43       0.40       2.83       Physical Conting.
Révision     2.75        0.45       3.20        1.78        0.45      2.24       Financial Conting.
- - - - - - Travaux - - - - - -      - - - - - Services - - - - -
Local   For;lon Devises   Total       Local    Foreign Devise    Total
Base           1.80     16.20      18.00        0.46      2.19       2.64
Imprévus       0.27      2.48       2.70        0.07      0.33       0.40
Révision       o.97       1.78      2.75        0.23      0.23       0.45
Total        8.u4    20.41       23.46        0.74      2.76       8.49
Source: Mission estimate.
March, 1988
DocNaae:YCSARCuiAn.x4-3(D r:Sallier)



- 59 -
Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Component
1.        The almost complete absence of maintenance activities in past
decades has been both a consequence and a contributing cause of economic
collapse. The territorial subdivisions, lacking both infrastructure and
resources, have grown old, and years of inactivity have undermined their
determination and their know-how. Reorganization and reactivation of the
departments responsible for maintenance is a lengthy undertaking, requiring
long-term training activities and restructuring of the local administrations.
Cumbersome administrative procedures and normal problems of turnover within
the civil service leave little hope for any perceptible improvement in the
near future.
2.        The substantial efforts currently in progresa or planned in the area
of upgrading and expansion of the road network must be accompanied by a
corresponding and immediate effort in the area of routine maintenance. By
definition, routine maintenance is a highly labor-intensive task performed by
lengthmen [cantonniers]. This maintenance, which will at first be
concentrated on the strengthened or new paved roads (i.e. those without
immediate surface problems), comprises such tasks as cleaning of ditches and
culverts, vegetation and erosion control, and light masonry or gabion
reinforcement work.
3.        A strategy for the development of cantonnage has been prepared.
This strategy meets the following two objectives: (i) participation in
reactivation of the small civil engineering enterprises sector, and
(ii) training in the roads area of petty contractors [tâcherons] capable of
performing current maintenance work for DGTP under contract. Conditions for
the success of an operation of this kind are: (a) recruitment suited to the
final objectives, (b) progressive initiation into management techniques, (c)
regular pay, (d) strict supervision, and (e) technical assistance with the
statuts of delegated executing authority, until the establishment of permanent
institutions.
4.        This cantonnage operation involves two stages:
(a) Signature of a contract by March 31, 1989 with a consulting firm,
for the installation (i) of a high-level expert familiar with all
aspects of highway maintenance in tropical countries, with
experience in organization and adaptation of methods to results, and
(ii) a young assistant roads engineer, to be reinforced later by a
second appointee. The expatriate personnel will be backed up by
DGTP counterparts from the Highway Maintenance departmenc.



- 60 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 7
(b) DGTP, with the assistance cf the consultants, will define an action
plan in principle comprising three stages. Stage 1, lasting one
month, will consist of identification and selection of applicant
jobbers and conclusion of training contracts with them, and a period
of on-site initiation, when each applicant will be required to lead
a team of 10-15 lengthmen. Stage 2, lasting six months, will place
selected applicants in a real situation where they have to manage a
10-15 man team responsible for a 45-70 km sector (paved roads) but
in joint command with the technical assistants. Stage 3 will
cûnsist of concluding a contract with the petty contractors selected
at the end of Stage 2, and continuing the monitoring by the
technical assistants to consolidate the knowiedge and experience
gained. At the end of this third stage, the petty contractors
finally selected will be included on an "aptitude list" and will be
awarded annual maintenance contracts on the order of US$12,000,
either by private agreement or through public bidding.
5.        The recommended system can be simplified and shortened if it is
possible, at the initial selection stage, to pick motivated applicants who
already have some capital and some management experience. In this hypothesis,
it would be possible to go on directly to Stage 3, but with the tutelle and
technical support of the technical assistants at the DGTP, not only in its
capacity of executing authority but also as an active adviser. The tutelle
system vill in particular comprise the opening by the petty contractor
applicants of a dual-signature bank account, which may be debited only with
the co-signature of the training leader.
6.        The. only way to ensure the durability of this system is by
'i) systematically earmarking budgetary allocations, (ii) continuing to
support this socio-vocational category, (iii) maintaining strict quality and
quantity controls, (iv) accepting a simple administrative system, and (v)
incorporating this system into other programs, particularly, at a later date,
to the rural roads program.
7.        The operation will take place in two stages.  The first stage will
run from March 1989 to December 1990. At the end of this period, 10 petty
contractors and 100 lengthmen will be able to handle the routine maintenance
of 450-500 km. The second stage will run from January 1991 to September 1992;
this will incorporate the lessons of the first stage. By the end of 1992
there will be a force of 20 contractors and 200 lengthmen capable of
maintaining a 1000-km network. If successful, the system can be expanded,
supported by counterpart engineers and relying on NGO assistance.
8.        The cost of the cantonnage operation is estimated at the
equivalent of US$1.55 million (US$2.14 with contingencies). The project will
finance the purchase of tools and technical assistance, at a cost of
US$1.07 million (US$1.38 million with contingencies); the cost of the
cantonnage is estimated at approximately US$250/km.
9.        A certain official emphasis will be placed on this cantonnage
program. which will be officially created by Presidential Decree, supplemented
by a Ministerial Order setting out the various execution procedures.



- 61 -
Annex 4-4
Page 3 of 7
i - Model Presidential Decree
Article 1.  There is hereby created at the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works an operation entitled Opération de Promotion des Tâcherons-
cantonniers (OPTC).
Article 2. The contracting authority for this operation shall be
the Minister of Transport and Public Works. The following shall be associated
with the operation, in particular through their presence on commissions:
-    The Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Development
-    The Ministry of the Economy and Finance
-    The Chamber of Commerce
Article 3. The particular duties and the organizational and
functional details f the operation shall be the subject of specific
ministerial orders.
Article 4. The present Decree shall take effect as of the date of
its signature.
-    Model Ministerial Order
Article 1. The executing authority for the OPTC created by Decree
No. ... of ...... shall be the Director General of Public Works. The
delegated executing authorities shall be the Director of Road Maintenance and
the training leader appointed by the firm of ........, consultant for
implementation of.the OPTC.
Article 2.  Applicants shall be sought from among personnel who now
hold or have held positions of responsibility within the ministry and from
among independent workers, contractors, merchants, or company employees.
,Article 3.  A selection committee is hereby estabilshea to review
the applications and propose to the Minister of Transport and Public Works a
list of the applicants selected for the different stages of the training
process.  At the end of the cycle, it shall propose the names of the petty
contractors and lengthmen who are to appear on the "aptitude list.".
This committee shall be composed as follows:
........................
Article 4. The training for each cycle breaks down as follows:
Stage 1: Selection, preparation of applicants (1 month);
Stage 2: Trial period as petty contractor, lengthman (6 months);
Stage 3: Contract in view of final qualification (12 months).
During the cycle, the trainee shall be paid as follows:
-    during Stage 1:  as paid team leader
-    during Stage 2:  according to the work done;
-    during Stage 3:  as an independent worker.



- 62 -
Annex 4-4
Page 4 of 7
Article 5. The trainee petty contractors and lengthmen and the
government shall be linked by a "training contract." At the end of the cycle,
a trainee who has demonstrated his ability to practice the trade of jobbing
lengthman shall be included on an "aptitude list." The Ministry of Public
Works shall offer him annual contracts for manual maintenance, concluded by
mutual agreement following negotiation with the executing authority.
Article 6. Financing of the OPTC shall be provided by the Highway
Fund and IDA. The length of the pilot operation is set at 40 months; during
this period, two training cycles shall be offered.
Article 7. An advance fund shall be set up, managed by the training
leader, as representative of the Director General of Public Works.
Article 8. The Director General of Public Works and the Highway
Fund Director shall be responsible for enforcement of the present Order.
Source: IDA mission



- 63 -
ANNEX 4-4
4-4.1
Paee 5 of 7
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINE!
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Entretien de Routine/Routine Maintenance Component
Fiche Technique et Financière/Technical and Financial Data
1. Schéma de Réalisation/Implementation Schédule
1989           1990            1991            1992
Round 1                                      - - - - - - -  - - - - - -
Round 2                                       I   II            III
Mois/months
Phase I    -         1
Phase II   -         6
Phase III  -        12
2. Prix Revient Annuel Eauipe Cantonnage
Annual Cost of a Routine Maintenance Team
Devises
US$    Local    Foreign
Salaires                                              Salaries
Tâcheron stagiaire  1    1920    1920                Contractor candidate
Chef Equipe          1    1200    1200               Foreman
Cantonniers         10    4800    4800               Lenghmen
Charges Sociales   8Z      630     630               Social Charges
S/Total US$             8550    8550               S/Total US$
Fonctionnement
Amortissement             io80        -      1080    Amortization
Fonctionnement             210        -       210    Operating Cost
Location magasins          250     250               Hiring Storehouse
Frais Divers               250     250               Miscellaneous
S/Total US$             1790     500       1290      S/Total US$
Bénéfice                  1035    1035               Profit
Total US/S             11375   10085       1290      Total US$
Coùt annuel $/km         250     220         30    Annual Cost $/km



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-4
rable 4-4.1
Paee 6 of 7
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Entretien de Routine/Routine Maintenance Component
Fiche Technique et Financière/Technical and Financial Data
3. Achat d'Outillage/Purchase of Tools
Quantité  P.unit.   Total  Amortissement
Quantity  U.Price   "otal   Amortization
(Vie/Life)
Outillage                                                        Tools
Brouette             10         55      550       110    t5)    Mheelba.s..1
Pelle                10          7       70        70    (1)    Shovel
Pioche               10         18      180        90    (2)    Pick
Coupe Coupe          20         16      320       320    (112)  Scythe
Balais               30          7      210       210    (1/3)  Broom
Dame                 10         48      480        50    (10)   Hand-compactor
Divers               10         25      250        25    (10)   Miscellaneous
Total Cost US$                      2060        875              Total US$
Velo Chef Equipe      1        230      230        46    (5)    Bicycle
Velomoteur Stagiaire 1         800      800       160    (5)    Motorcycle
Total US$                           3090       108'j
Fonctionnement                                                   Operating cost
Vélo, vélomoteur                        210                      Bicycle,motocycle
4.  Estimation Dépenses pour Outillage (20 équipes)
Cost Estimates for Purchase of 1ools (20 teams)
USs
Coùt de base            61800             Base cost
Imprévus 202            12360             Physical contingencies
Revision prix            5560             Financial Contingencies
Total US$             79720               Total US$



- 65 -
AMNEXI. 4-4
Table 4-4.1
ra"e 7 of 7
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Entretien de Routine/Routine Maintenance ComPonent
Fiche Technique et Financière/Technical and Financial Data
5. Assistance Technique/Technical Assistance
Mois    P. u        Total    Local   Devises
Month   U.Cost       USS     Local   Foreign
Maltre de stage (1)  40   12.000       168.000             168.000   Sr. Engr.
Assistant Jr. (1.5)  60    4.500       270.000             270.000   Jr. Engr.
Homologues (5)       200      120       24.00'J   24.000             Counterparts
Support              280       63     176.000   17.000               Supp. Staff
Logistique                             532.000  141.000   391.000   Logistic
Coùt de base                        1.011.600                        Base cost
Imprévus (10Z)                        101.000                        Phy.cont.
Revision prix                          185.500                       Fin.cont.
Coût moyen US$/hm                       10.116                       Ave. US$mm
1989  1990   1991   1992
Plan d'Exécution (Z)    25    27       26     22                  Impl. Sched.
6. Synthèse des Coûts/Total Cost Estimate
Travaux    Outillage  Asst. Tech  Total    Total Financé
Works       Tool       Tech. Asst  Projet   Total Financed
km       US$ m        US$ m     US$ m       US$ m         US$ m
1989      225       0.08         0.04        0.33       0.45        0.37
1990      450       0.18         0.04        0.38       0.60        0.42
1991      790       0.34                     0.37       0.71        0.37
1992      675       0.30                     0.31       0.61        0.31
Total   2140       0.90         0.08        1.39       2.37        1.47
Base                0.52         0.06        1.01       1.59        1.07
Imprévu             0.11-        0.01        0.10       0.22        0.11
Revision            0.27         0.01        0.28        0.56       0.29
Local    z           130             0        27
Devises  Z             O          100         73
March, 1988
AFlIN



- 66 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consulting Services
A.        Feasibility studies
1.        Background.  The few road feasibility studies carried out under the
First Republic are obsolete and difficult to use today. The road network
development policy developed within the framework of the present project
requires that feasibility studies be carried out and a project library set
up. These studies will make it possible to better grasp the economic
phenomena connected with road transport, and will provide technical and
economic information for the future data bases needed to support the
programming of reconstruction and maintenance operations.
2.        Objectives.  Define the optimum economic solution for execution and
upgrading of civil engineering projects in the highway sector. Choices will
be based on a coniparison of alternatives; the optimum solution will be reached
mainly after consideration of (i) technical characteristics, (ii) construction
costs, (iii) the hypothetical results of effective execution of an adequate
level of maintenantce.
3.        Content.  The studies will cover around 600 km of the national
primary road network. They will include (i) traffic counts, analyses and
projections, (ii) estimates of investment and maintenance costs and vehicle
operating costs, (iii) technical investigations at a high enough level to
estimate the cost of the works with 20% accuracy, and (iv) economic comparison
of the solutions contemplated. The internal rate of return and execution
timetable will be calculated for each alternative. Costs will be broken down
into economic and financial costs.
4.        Timetable and costs.  The consultants will be recruited at the end
of 1989 in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants; a
provisional final report will be submitted one year later. The final report
incorporating the comments of DGTP and IDA will be completed three months
later. The study will required approximately 20 manmonths, for a base cost on
the order of US$260,000 equivalent.
5.        Identification of road sections.  The road sections to be tne
subject of a feasibility study will be selected in agreement with IDA at the
beginning of 1989, and will be included in the PIP list.
B.        Final design studies
1.        Background.  With the exception of the Dubreka-Kolaboui and
Mamou-Kankan roads, DGTP does not have detailed final design of any
'oe - Experience has shown that it is essential to good planning to have
uiuding-level final designs that are no more than three years old at the time
the works are started, and no more than about one or two years old at the time
financing is being solicited.



- 67 -
Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 6
2.        Objectives.  To have bidding-level technical dossiers available to
facilitate implementation of the national primary network development policy.
The choice of road sections for study will be based on priorities arising out
of the feasibility studies.  The choice will be defined in agreement with IDA.
3.        Content.  The final design studies will, in principle, cover
approximately 200 km. They will include (i) topographical, geotechnical,
hydrological, drainage and bridge studies, (ii) written documents,
specifications, bidding conditions, bidding documents, (iii) confidential
estimates, partially broken down into foreign exchange, local currency,
taxes. The expected accuracy of the estimates will be on the order of 10%.
4.        Timetable and costs.  The consultants responsible for the
feasibility studies will also be in charge of the final design studies. These
studies will start in early 1991 and will be completed approximately nine
months later. The base cost is estimated at the equivalent of US$4,000 per
km, or a total of US$800,000 million equivalent.
C.        Other economic and technical studies
1.        Background.  DGTP is always in need of economic or technical studies
that cost little but are often of crucial importance. Decisions or financing
operations are often delayed for lack of informative data.
2.        Objectives.  To have available sources of financing for the economic
or technical studies needed in the appraisal of investment or management
decisions.
3.        Content.  The road transport studies will cover topics intended to
lead to specific recommendations. For example: legal and institutional
studies; studies of the advisability of developing bus terminals; traffic
counting campaign, to be entrusted to a private firm; specific laboratory
study; topographical study, etc.
4.        Timetable and costs.  The studies will be entrusted to consulting
firms. They will be executed during the period of project execution, with
specific agreement from IDA, to which the terms of reference and draft
contracts will be submitted for prior agreement. These studies, of which the
total base cost is fixed at the equivalent of US$1,000,000, will be divided
into contracts of a cost equal to or lower than US$100,000 equivalent.
D.        Technical assistance
1.        Background.  The Transport Sector Project (TSP) provides for an
increased workload for DGTP over the coming years, comprising (a) monitoring
of a number of civil engineering operations, and (b) reactivation of
administrative and management functions linked to highway maintenance and
investment. Within the framework of the TSP, provision is made for the
establishment of a project management group (PMG), assisted by 84 manmonths of
technical assistance over a renewable 2-year period.
2.        Objectives.  To ensure that monitoring and management of the PMG
will continue beyond the initial 2-year period estimated by the TSP. This
second stage, proposed here, will probably be followed by a consolidation
stage, which could receive consideration on the occasion of a future project.



- 68 -
Annex 4-5
Page 3 of 6
3.        Content.  The content of the technical assistance will be identical
Lo that contemplated by the TSP. It will be possible, however, to adapt it to
take account of lessons learned in the first stage.
4.        Timetable and costs.  Continuation of the technical assistance by
four specialists is planned for a 30-month period, the start of which
(mid-l990) coincides with the end of the initial contract. In principle, the
initial contract will be extended by amendment. The base cost of this
component is estimated at the equivalent of US$1.5 million for 105 manmonths
of high-level service.
E.        Training component
1.        Background.  The first training efforts have been developed by the
TSP through the PMG, which is installing a training specialist who, after the
personnel evaluation, will analyze job descriptions and launch and monitor a
training program.
2.        Obiectives.  To strengthen the practical asd theoretical training of
professionals employed by DGTP, which is to beco..- a normative agency and
gradually withdraw from the operational side.
3.        Content.  Practical training will be provided at two levels:  (i) at
the construction and spot improvement sites, and (ii) at the central level,
within the framework of the PMG. Practical upgrading will be offered by the
experts responsible for supervision, and by those providing technical
assistance. A rota will be established among some 30 engineers and
technicians with little experience of worksites. Additional theoretical
training will then be provided for the 15 most capable individuals, who vill
later form the hard core of DGTP. This theoretical training can be acquired
at ENTP in Côte d'Ivoire, or in other African countries in the region.
4.        Timetable and costs.  The practical training will take place during
the same time periods as the civil engineering works. The theoretical
training, financed by fellowships, will take place during the last three years
of the project, at the rate of 5 fellowship-holders a year. The cost of the
training component is estimated at the equivalent of US$270,000. This cost
does not include that of the training expert (US$180,000), already included
under technical assistance.
Source: IDA mission.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4-5
Table 4.5
Page 4 of 6
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Service de Consultance-Consulting Services
(Prix unitaires/Unit prices)
Prix MensuelslMonthlv Costs l/
Total     Devises     Local
US$      Foreign     Local
Honoraires/Fees 21
Chef Mission/Head of Mission                14.000     12.700      1.300
Expert Senior                               12.000     11.000      1.000
Expert Junior                               10.000      8.800      1.200
Expert Type ONG 31                           6.000      4.800      1.200
Homologue                                      120          -        120
LoRistique/LoRistics 41
par Expert                                   1.800        900        900
par Mission                                  1.400      1.120        280
l/  Taxes excluses/excluding taxes.
2/  comprend s salaires, charges sociales, voyages internationaux,
indemnités de logement, overhead;
includes: fees, international travel, subsisterice - other allowances.
3/  Organisation Non Gouvernementale/Non-Government Organizations (NGOs).
4/  comprend s véhicules, équipement, transport domestique, dépenses de
bureau.
includes: vehicles, equipment, domestic transportation, local office
costs.
March, 1988
AFTIN



- 70 -
ANNEX 4-5
Table 4-5.2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE                Page 5 of 6
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Service de Consultance-Consulting Services
Coûts et Calendrier d'Action/Cost Estimates and ImPlementation Schedules
1. Etudes de Faisabilité, Projet d'Exécution, Etudes Diverses
Feasibility Studies. Final DesiRn, Miscellaneous Studies
A.  Calendrier/ImPlementation Schedule
Total  1989   1990   1991   1992
Faisabilité        (km)   600    100    400    100              Feasibility
Etudes Techniques (km)   200                    200             Final Design
Etudes Diverses   (Z)    100      15      30     30     25      Miscellaneous
B.  Coùts de base (USS) (Base Costs)
Prix unitaire                      Devises
i  _g_  Unit Price   Total         Local  Foreign
Faisabilité       km      600          430         258.000       9Z     912
Etudes Techniques km      200       4.000          800.000      23S     77Z
Etudes Diverses   u        10     100.000        1.000.000       9Z     912
Total US$                                      2.058.000      14Z     86S
C.  Calendrier de Déboursement/Disbursement Schedule
Prolet
1989               0.24
1990               0.62
1991               1.57
1992               0.34
Total (US$)        2.77
Coût de base        2.06                Base Cost
Imprévus           0.20                Physical Contingencies
Révision            0.51                Financial Contingencies
D.       DistributionlBreakdown
Devises               Financement
Local    Foreign      Total     FinancinR
Coût de base       0.30      1.76        2.06        2.06          Base
Imprévus           0.02      0.18        0.20        0,20          Phys. Cont.
Révision           0.19      0.32        0.51        0.S1          Fin. Cont.
To,tal          0.51       2.26       2.77         2.77            Total



- 71 -
ANNEX 4-5
Table 4-5.2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE               page 6 of 6
QUATRIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Service de Consultance-Consulting Services
Coùts et Calendrier d'Action/Cost Estimates and Imiflementation Schedules
2. Assistance Technique et Formation
Technical Assistance and Training
A.  Calendrier/Imilementation Schedule
hommes-mois/man-months
1990    1991    1992    Total
Assistance Technique                                       Technical Assistance
Chef de Mission             6      12       12      30        Head of Mission
Ingénieur Routier           6      12       12      30        Biehway Engineer
Economiste                  6      12       12      30        Economist
Expert Formation            3        6       6      15        Training Specialist
Total (h x m)            21      42       42     105          Total (mm)
Formation                                                     Traininst
Bourses (unités)            5       5        5      15        Fellowships (unit)
B.  Coùts de baselBase Cost
Assistance Technique/Technical Assistance
Prix unitaire                         Devises
Q     Unit Price         Total   Local      Foreign
Honoraires (Fees)       105      12,000       1,260,000   105,000  1,155.000
Logistique (Logistics)                          240,000   108,000    132,000
Sous-Total                                    1,500,000   213,000  1,287,qOO
Bourses (Fellowships)  15        18,000         270.000        -      27n.000
Total                                         1,770,000    426,000 1,344,000
C.  Calendrier de Déboursement/Disbursement Schedule
Assistance Technique   Formation
Technical Assistance    TraininRt
1990                  0.44                 0.11
1991                  0.72                 0.11
1992                  0.74                 0.11
Total (US$ m)       1.89                 0.33
Coùt de base          1.50                 0.27     Base
Imprévus              0.15                 0.03     Phys. Contini.
Révision              0.24                 0.03     Finan. Contiiig.
Local                  18Z                   0
Devises                82                   100
March 1988
AF1IN



REUCM OF amBI
Raa lad t
I ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ mF I          180.  I   180<.                I      1.80<.               1 188.    0u          1 80C           I
unue                               us                  "(  e  un         tm                un 
| aol Forilg Totl I Lo   Foai. Toal I Loal Foralga Total  Lal Foaip Totl  Lcl F; orig Totl  Lcl Fweien Toal
A. C il                            I                  I                 I                  I                  I                 I
OCaalqlbi   Or.ka-Ktb.l         1.4? I.14 84.1L  1.28 10.00 U.4?   4.97 88.87 49.84   1.05 B0.48 10.80 I               0.00 I             0.00
I      uucmioa 00ao4<1               8 0.78  1.09 67.10 I 0.27  2.44  9.71   4.0  7.84 49.01  2.81 20.74  o.0               0.00               0.00 I
I So 1Zro,eaa                   1.80 16.90 1.00   0.90  1.44  2.01   0.40  8.04 4.I 0.80  4.86  S.V    0.41  8.6   4.02 I 0.40  8.   S.S I
I   Foatia. l|IaIumaca    I 0.00  0.00  0.02 I o.06        0.056  0.10        0.10 I 0.00       0.90 I 0.17        0.17               0.00
le. Wa ea o tool.                  I 0.00  0.00  0.00 I       0.08  0.08         .08  0.0                0.00 I             0.00 I             0.00 1
iC. «b-itm Sebh_ c e 
_orw|le   br*a4(olai            0.84  1.00  9.00 I 0.00  0.o0  0.#8   O .a0  1.10  1.00   0.00  0.20  0.02 I           0.00 I             0.00 I
SI  u-v.ao  l _u4o.arKa         0.07  8.97  8.04   0.8  0.18  0.1 O   0.42  9.00  2.45 I 0.21  1.11  1.001             0.00 I.W I 
stika/uer. Sont murowe.an   I 0.45  2.1   9 .4 1 0.0e  0.42  0.U I 0.10  0.41  0.81 I 0.10  0.48  0.8 I 0.0a  0.40  0.48   0.00  0.40  0.48                        1
boa iaIoe %"a O1i1_ ac    I 0.27  0.74  1.01   0.07  o.8  0.o    0.07  0.20  0.7  o0.07  0.20  0.27 1 0.00  0.10  0.a2                         0.00
ftS_inM ami  ~ac                0.»0  1.70  2.0e I 0.00  0.1  0.1  I 0.07  0.80  0.40   0.18  1.00  1.1  I 0.04  0.0  0.2                 0.00
Teoalel akmica                I 0.91  1.29  1.80 I             0.00   0.05  0.»0  0.S5 I o.eo  0.40  0.87   0.00 0.8 0." I                0.00
ID. Tralalas                         O .ao  0.W   0.7               0.00 g      o.o  0.00 I        0.00  0.00         0.00  0.00              0.00
IL. Totl  _aa ct                    17.  14.00 14.41  L.1f 18.01 17.70   0.90 04.48  4.#8   4.84 8.67 42.01   0.04  4.8  S.0   0.qO  8.98  4.4g
IF. Coi_^|_                                                             ||                         
gI> ( ebTcel                        I 1.   19.#8  U.1f   0.17  1.#8  1.0   o.«  7.00  7.M I 0.4a  i.01  8.44 1 0.«  0.10        | 0.70   0.0   0.»  0.» 1g
g  (Ti) prta                         7 .7.  M.87 291.04   0.77  1.48  L9.0 I 4.19  7.70 11.0I  1.0 L .0  8.8  | 0.48  0.06  1.00 I 0.8  O.U  0.10 o
grL .VLur esr gM7.17 ma U0.00 g 9.80 1.00 91.40  1 14.01 10.24 M.1   7.1  40.1111i 81.01   1.06  0.9  7.00 1   0.06  4.11  6.78 I
kut..i1j03



REPUBLIC OF SUINEA
FOURTH H1HkAY PROJECT
Iepleeentation Schedule
t                                            Bi    1989       Ht    1990       Il    1991        N     1992       1      1993      H
I                                tX ~~~~~~~~~~~I 1  2 1 3 1 4 tl l l 2 t 3 1 4 Il I J 2 t 3 1 4 Il 1 t2   Z   4 l:      2 t3   4 t
l A. Civil orks                            il   I        I   H 1      I   I 1   1              Il   I   j   I        S l
Construction Dubreka-Kolaboui         H    I   hiithitt ilit   hutiH                 it  H                 B   B   B   Sl   S
I     Construction Matou-Kankan              Il   t   I   I  Hit hiiiIi  itiHitititi            H    I        I t I    I          H
Spot lîprovenents                      ttt      II   iiiîiiihi iittittttJtilitilitilti*liiihiiilli*iiiihitil    1
I     Routine Maintenance                    Ihfifhi  Hultiit if if itihiffhfi  III  if  uftfhuiifiiIt                           1
B. Furchase cf Tools                       I1Jt I            t           t    H l   I   I   l    I                           :   H
lS~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~   BS   B   B   Bt Bt        B   B  SS  BS   B   B   B    B  '
C. Consultant Services                     Il         I     Hl   B      I     11   I   t   t      1     1   1            S   B 11
Supervision Dubreka-Kolaboui          Il   t ihifihufih ttih tthfiftifHiu*If  t           H t      t    t    i          B t
t  Supervision Matou-Kankan              ii   i   I 1     itttittitltl*lit I       
Studies/Superv. Spot lmprovYemnts      tittt i IiuîlIfîittiîuIIiîitIîu.IîuîHfut                    i iIIîiE.î.hiî,I          1
I  Supervision Routine Kaintenance        iittlttttt'tttttltltt'tlt{'    tit:                                                   1
1     Studies and Engineering                tI tl Iti  #tii t1f fit  tii  fil  i#    #If *1* *1l   Hift t i * f; 1  11* #If tl  fil  Hl
Technical Assistance                  H    t   t  I   tt   I   Itilt1tit          î'lîuit"h"î    I                          BSl
I                                           H   t         I   H    I   t   I   Hl    I  i  il  I  H   I      I   HI   B   B        IB
___________________.______._.___________________.._...._______.__________.._________________._._________________.__.._..____._.B__B
----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---_- ----- ----- ,  --t---iz---ji-------------   -------   --------------   -- - - - - - -



- 74 -
Annex 4 - 8
Guinea - Fourth Hiphway Proiect                        -
Financin& Plan (USS m)
Total  Govern.   IDA   CCCE   I    ADB   USAID  O
A. Road Construction
(i) Dubreka-Kolabui
Lot 1l Works          37.9   3.8             34.1
Supervision    1.2                     1.2
Sub-total             39.1
Lot 2s Works          37.0   3.7      10.3                      23.0
Supervision    1.2             1.2
Sub-total             38.2
Total                 77.3   7.5      11.5   35.3               23.0
(ii) Mamou - Kankan
Lot ls Works          18.2   1.9                          16.3
Supervision    1.1                                 1.1
Sub-total             19.3   1.9                          17.4
Lot 2s Works          15.0   1.5                          13.5
Supervision    0.9                                 0.9
Sub-total             15.9   1.5                          14.4
Lot 3: Vorks          13.9   1.4      12.5
Supervision    0.9                                 0.9
Sub-total             14.8   1.4      12.5                 0.9
Lot 4s Vorks          17.0   1.7                                       15.3
Supervision    1.0                                 1.0
Sub-total             18.0   1.7                           1.0        15.3
Lot 5s Works          19.3   1.9                   17.4
Supervision    1.1                                 1.1
Sub-total             20.4   1.9                   17.4   1.1
Total                 88.4   8.4      12.5         17.4  34.8
Total A              165.7  15.9      24.0  35.3   17.4  34.8  23.0  15.3
B. Soot Imrrovement
Works         23.4   2.4      21.0
Supervision    3.5             3.5
Total B                26.9   2.4      24.5
C. Routine Maintenance
Tools          0.1             0.1
Vorks           0.9   0.9
Consultants    1.4             1.4
Total C                 2.4   0.9       1.5
D. T.A. Fellovehios        5.0             5.0
Total D                 5.0             5.0
Grand Total           200.0  19.2      55.0  35.3   17.4  34.8  23.0  15.3
Abbreviation: Govern. - Government, IDA - International Development
Agency. CCCE - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique,
I - Italy, ADB - African Development Bank,
O - Other concessional institutional or private financing.
Doc: B:Tablel
nT1ra. ct-



Annex 4- 9
GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(USS m)
Quater Endina                    Period  Cumulative   z
March 1989                            3.0       3.0        5
June 1989                             4.2       7.2       13
Sept. 1989                           1.8        9.0       16
Dec. 1989                             2.0      11.0       20
March 1990                            2.0      13.0       24
June 1990                             3.5      16.5       30
Sept. 1990                           3.5       20.0      36
Dec. 1990                             4.2      24.2       44
March 1991                            3.8      28.0       51
Ju   1991                             4.5      32.5       59
Sept. 1991                           2.5       35.0      64
Dec. 1991                             3.0      38.0       69
March 1992                            2.0      40.0       73
June 1992                             2.5      42.5       77
Sept. 1992                           2.0       44.5      81
Dec. 1992                             2.8      47.3       86
March 1993                            1.7      49.0       89
June 1993                            2.2       51.2       93
Sept. 1993                           2.3       53.5      97
Dec. 1993                             1.5      55.0     100
May 1988
AFlIN



- 76 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURtB HIGHWAY PROJECT
Agricultural Production in Zone of Influence of Dubreka-Kolaboui Road
1. Koba (near Tatema)
1987 paddy productionl : 750 ha with a yield of 2 tonlha
or 1.500 tons per year.
1991 paddy productiont above 1,500 tons per year plus
3,125 ha with a yield of 4 ton/ha
or 12,500 tons per year.
Predicted paddy and rice production during the 20 years' expected life
of the road (tonlyear)s
Year       1991      1996       2001      2006      2011
Paddy    14,000    17,500    21,000    24,500    28,000
Rice      8,400    10,500    12,600    14,700    16,800
2. Boffa
1987 paddy productions negligible
1991 paddy production:  3.900 ha with a yield of 2 ton/ha
or 6,000 tons per year.
Predicted paddy and rice production during 20 years' expected
life of the road (ton/year)s
Year    1991     1996      2001       2006      2011
Paddy  6,000    7,500      9,000    10,500     12,00
Rice   3,6000   4,500      5,400    6,300      7,200
3.  Tougnifili
1987 paddy production:  12,000 ha vith a yield of
2 ton/ha or 24,000 tons per year.
1987 palm oils 20,000 tons or 40,000 ha.
Predicted paddy, rice and palm oil production during the 20
years' expected life of the road (tonlyear)s
Year          1991     1996      2001    2006     2011
Paddy       28,800   36,000   43,200  50,400   57,600
Rice        17,280   21,660   25,920  30,240   34,560
Palm oil    20,800   22,000   23,000  24,000   25,000
1/   By production is meant total production minus consumption in zone of
influence, or the quantity to be tranported over the road.



- 77 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTE HIGHWAY PROJECT
4. Ratako (Kapatchez)
1987 paddy productions 2,000 ha vith a yield of 1.5 ton/ha
or 3,000 tons per year.
Predicted paddy and rice production during 20 years' expected life of the
road (ton/year)s
Year          1991      1996     2001    2006      2011
Paddy        3.600    4,500    5,400   6,300    7,200
Rlice        2.160    2.700    3,240   3,780    4,320
5. Boffa
Smoked fish is produced all along the road: for transport
purposes it i8 assumed that the center of production is
Boffa.
1987 smoked fish productions 20,000 tons per year.
Predicted 'smoked fish production during 20 years' expected
life of the road (tonlyear)t
Year         1991      1996     2001     2006      2011
Smoked Fish 24,000   30,000   36,000   42,000   48,000
6. Bouramava
Banana production takes place between Dubreka and Boffa along the road; for
transportation purposes it is assumed that the center of production i9
Bouramaya.
1987 banana productions   500 ha with a yield of 4.5 toniha
or 2,250 tons per year.
1991 banana production:   1,500 ha with a yield of 4.5 ton/ha
or 6,750 tons per year.
Predicted banana production during 20 years' expected life of the road
(ton/year)s
Year          1991      1996    2001      2006      2011
Binanas     6,750    8,400    10,500   13,200   16,500



-78 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
7. Wassau
Presently charcoal and firewood are transported to Conakry from the
Wassauarea. Quantities transported are 30,000 tons of firewood per year and
4,000 tons of charcoal per year. Once the road has been improved these
products are expected  to come from Tougnifili while quantities are expected
to triple due to severe shortages in Conakry.
Predicted quantities to be transported from Tougnifili to Conakry during the
20 years' expected life of tne road (tons/year):
Year          1991      1996     2001      2006      2011
Firewood    90,000   104,000  121,000  141,000  163,000
Charcoal    12,000    14,000   16,000   18,500   21,000
Sources Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique.
Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales.
March 1988
AFlIN



- 79 -                             ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Africultural Production in Zone of Influerce of Mamou-Kankan Road
1. Dounet
1987 sweet potatoe production is 4,000 tons per year.
Predicted production durina the 20 years' expected life of the road
! ~~(tons/year)t
Year                  1991      1996       2001     2006       2011
Sweet Potatoes        7,550    11,000   15,000   18,750    18,750
2. Siauiri
1991 paddy production between Kankan and Siguiri:  7,000 ha vith a yield of
3.0 ton/ha or 21,000 ton!
per year.
Predicted paddy and rice production and required fertilizers to be
delivered over the Mamou-Kankan road (coming from Conakry) during
the 20 years' expected life of the road ttons/year):
Year          1991      1996     2001      2006     2011
Paddy       21,000   23,000   25,400   28,000   30,700
Rice        12,600   13,800   15,200   16,800   18,400
3. Kankan
1987 cotton production on 1,200 ha is 800 tons per year.
In 1995 one expects to produce 25,000 tons of cotton grain.
Predicted cotton fiber, grain, oil, peanuts, corn and paddy
production during the 20 years' expected life of the road
(tons/year)s
Year          1991      1996     2001      2006     2011
Cotton      11,000   30,000   37,000   42,000   50,000
Fiber        4,400   12,600   14,800   16,800   20,000
Grain        6,500   19,500   24,100   27,300   32,500
Oil          1,100    3,300   4,100       4,600    5,500
Peanuts      1,500    5,000    6,000    7,200    8,600
Corn         2,500    4,000    4,SG0    5,700    6,900
Paddy        3,500    6.000    7,200    8,600   10,300
The last two llnes in the above table represent ti) cotton grain
production in Kankan to be used by the cotton oil factory in
Dabola (transport Kankan-Dabola) and (ii) cotton oil production in
Dabola (transport Dabola-Mamou).



- 80 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cotton production is also expected to develop in the area east of Kankan
(CCCE-financed project to be implemented by CFDT). The project covers an
area of 58,000 ha.  Production during the 20 years' expected life of the
road (tons/year):
Year          1991      1996     2000      2006     2011
Cotton      10,000   20,000   30,000   42,000   42,000
Fiber        4,000    8,000   12,000   16,800   20,000
Grain        6,500   19,540   24,100   27,300   32,500
Oil          1,100    3,300    4,100    4,600    5,500
Corn         2,500    4,000    4,800   5,700       6,900
Peanuts      1,500    5,000   t- C-0    7,200    8,600
Paddy        3,500    6,000    7,L2.`J   8,600   10,300
4. Kouroussa (Kankan)
The Office du Developpement Rural et Industriel de Kouroussa plans to
develop rice, kenaf (jute) and corn production.
Predicted production during the 20 years' expected life of the road
(tonsIyear):
Year          1991      1996     2001      2006     2011
Paddy        7,300      9,000  11,000   12,500   14,000
Rice         4,400      5,400   6,600    7,500    8,400
Kenaf        3,300      4,000   5,000    6,000    7,000
Corn         2,700      3,400   4,000    4,700    5,400
5. Kankan
There is a fruit juice factory in Kankan which transports annually about
8,000 tons of fruit juice to Conakry. Predicted increase in this volume
during the 20 years' expected life of the road tons/year):
Year          1991      1996     2000      2006     2011
Juice        8,000    8,000   16,000   16,000   16,000
6. Dabola
There is a peanut oil factory in Dabola which produces 3,000 tons per year
(primarily for consumption in Conakry). The factory's capacity is 10,000
tons per year. Predicted production during the 20 years' expected life of
the road (tons/year):
Year           1991     1996     2000      2006     2011
Oil          3,000    4,700    6,500    8,200   10,000
Source:  Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique.
Compagnie Francaise des Textiles.
March 1988
AP1I T%T



-  ,~~~~~~~,;- -  rooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~  -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                               -~~~~~   ib ~~~~~IBRD 21 01
** --- ..c,   ,  ' T                      S  E  N  E  G`A  L
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  L~4
I(IW   -'  LEI <-        LI>                              KouodoruoHtI                                                                                                                                                ;      ,               A            L            f
sCIAOD, 
(U1t4E                                                                                                   j                                                   ,t\559  .* Gou  KubaJ
.FR,CAN tEP        .ou Leloumd.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2 /  ztougué i:     -5   ieu
To B.lon,o
G ` ONoor   Keroulnb                                                         D labo oor
o.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
To Fr'eetow.n                                                                                >      >            )/X
Poimoroty N.OworlK                                                                                                                                           F                                                                                                                le
_PrOjoot Road o t.b. Provd  o  t
-Roondso I.b. Paved Undeo Long T.rm  Progrrm    ,- ---      
- Ronds t. be Gr.o0;i.d Under t.ong Term Progrom  / 
Rolistrng P.o.d Roodo                                                 tJi_                                                                                                                                   -sFt                     rel 
-- -  EoloRng Uoprnved Ronodo                                                    ,g                                                                                                                u         + crz|                                              '           5 
Seoondory N.hoo,rb                                                 --;j                                                                                                                                           _       0D*
..    orih RooJdso I.b. l,ponoerfd Under tong Term Progron,              t                                                                                              yS ieredou\                                                        i                 à>_   »  
Dononollo Abrleldo  }«>yI{f
o 4, Infmteronot1l Alrporl t  
49 Nollonol CoplOol t  ,  C2  i L | B                                                               E R R A .                  E    N  
- -       Inonoootleoarl Roondonino                                                                  p'                                               4                                                                            NZerekore                                         O
KILOMETERS °      20    40      oO     Y0    100   l20    140   IrW                     --/_                                                                                                                                                                             .  i31-o>   < _   I S \  
blLSO         20         40         W          60    Y 0100  ` £     omu    °
APRIL I19a



