Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1915 GUI
                     (Fourth Highway Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 29, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  June  29,  1988,  between  the  REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development Fund (AfDF) a  credit  (the  AfDF Credit) to assist in
financing Part A.2 of the Project  on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement  (the  AfDF  Credit Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and AfDF;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan  (the CCCE Loan) to assist in
financing Part A.2 of the Project  on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and CCCE; and
Page  2
     (D)  the Borrower intends to obtain additional financing from
other donors;
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MTTP" means  Ministere  des  Transports  et des Travaux
Publics, the Borrower's  ministry  of  transport and public works;
and
     (c)  "DGTP"  means  MTTP's  Direction  Generale  des  Travaux
Publics, the Borrower's public works department.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to thirty-nine  million  seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a  special account in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Page  3
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  May  15 and November 15
commencing  November  15,  1998  and  ending  May  15,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MTTP with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
Page  4
appropriate  engineering,   financial,   economic  and  management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes  of  Parts  A,  B and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall (a) not  later than October 31 of each
year starting in 1988,  submit  to  the Association for its review
and comments the  Borrower's  program  for road construction, spot
improvements and road  maintenance  to  be  carried out during the
following year; and  (b)  establish  and  maintain  a road fund on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and replenish
said fund as and when required to ensure that, on the first day of
each quarter during which the Project is executed, an amount shall
be available sufficient  to  finance  the  Borrower's full contri-
bution  to  the  estimated  cost  in  such  quarter  of  the  spot
improvement and road maintenance programs referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of  Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) not  later  than  December 31, 1989, submit to
the Association  for  its  approval  model  technical and standard
bidding documents for spot improvement works; and
     (b)  not  later  than  December  31,  1990,  circulate, after
consultation with the  Association,  guidelines  for the identifi-
cation, selection and execution of spot improvement works.
     Section 3.05. For the  purposes  of  Part C.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not  later  than  December  31, 1991, submit a
program  to  the  Association  for  its  review  for  the periodic
maintenance  of  the  national   road  network  by  qualified  and
experienced contractors.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall,  not  later than March 31,
1989, employ consultants to  assist  the road maintenance division
of DGTP in the execution of Part C.2 of the Project.
     Section 3.07. For the purpose  of  Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall not carry  out  any final engineering design unless
the estimated economic rate of  return, calculated on the basis of
methods satisfactory to the Association, exceeds 10% and works are
expected to start within a period of three years.
     Section 3.08. For the purpose  of  Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) not later  than  March 31, 1989, submit to the
Association for its approval  the  program  of  the training to be
undertaken by the candidates  for foreign fellowships financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (b) take all necessary measures
to ensure that  all  staff  having  received  such training remain
assigned for a period of at least three years after its completion
to tasks for which they were trained.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower  shall,  not  later than March 31,
1989, complete the transfer  of responsibility for maintaining and
improving rural tracks from  DGTP  to  the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
Page  5
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any legal  instruments  governing  DGTP  shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely in  the Association's opinion the ability
of the Borrower  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any loan  made to the Borrower for
                    the financing of  the  Project shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor, or
Page  6
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on  terms and conditions consis-
               tent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the organizational structure  (cadre  organique) of DGTP
has been promulgated;
     (b)  the leader of the  technical assistance team responsible
for assisting DGTP in the execution  of  Parts A, B and C.1 of the
Project has been employed; and
     (c)  the Borrower has established  the  road fund referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for Public  Works  is  designated as representative of
the Borrower for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Transports et des Travaux Publics
          B.P. 715
          Conakry
          Republique de Guinee
                                              Telex:
                                                22349 MITRANS
Page  7
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                          By /s/ Tolo Beavogui
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works
     (a)  for Part A.1          15,140,000       90%
     (b)  for Part B.1          13,700,000       90%
(2)  Goods for Part C               80,000       100%
(3)  Consultants'                6,490,000       100%
     services
(4)  Fellowships                   220,000       100%
(5)  Unallocated                 4,070,000
                                __________
Page  8
     TOTAL                      39,700,000
2.   For the purposes  of  this  Schedule,  the term "consultants'
services"  includes  vehicles  for   said  consultants  up  to  an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  rehabilitate and to
improve  the  capacity  of  the   national  road  network  and  to
strengthen DGTP's capability to manage said network.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road construction
1.   Construction and improvement  to  paved  road standard of the
Boffa-PK 60 link of the national road network.
2.   Construction and improvement  to  paved  road standard of the
Dubreka-Boffa,  PK  60-Kolaboui  and  Mamou-Kankan  links  of  the
national road network.
Part B:   Elimination of critical points
1.   Design and implementation of  spot improvement works on about
1,500 km of the unpaved  national road network, including building
drainage systems, rehabilitating bridges and gravelling.
2.   Preparation of model technical and standard bidding documents
for the execution of spot improvement works.
Part C:   Road maintenance
1.   Development  and  implementation  of  a  periodic maintenance
policy for all portions of the national road network.
2.   Development  and   implementation   of   a   policy  for  the
progressive transfer   of  routine  road  maintenance to lengthmen
(cantonniers) and petty contractors.
3.   Acquisition  of   small   maintenance   tools,  bicycles  and
vehicles.
Part D:   Feasibility studies and detailed engineering
     Carrying out of feasibility studies  for  about 600 km and of
final engineering design for about  200  km from the national road
network.
Part E:   Restructuring and Strengthening of DGTP
1.   Restructuring  of  DGTP  through  the  creation  of  a  works
division,  a  road   maintenance   division   and  a  studies  and
programming division.
2.   Strengthening of DGTP's  planning, supervision and management
functions.
3.   Fellowships for staff training in African countries.
                           *     *     *
Page  9
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the  works  included  in  Parts  A  and  B of the
Project shall be prequalified  as  described  in paragraph 2.10 of
the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for Part B of  the Project estimated to cost less
than the  equivalent  of  $1.5  million  per  contract,  up  to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $12 million, may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Vehicles, hand tools and equipment  for Part C of the Project
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price  quotations  solicited  from  a  list  of  at least three
suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $250,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
Page  10
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  engineering,  financial,  economic,
management and other  consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions  of  employment  shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants  shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures  satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Page  11
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in  the  Special  Account  as  of the date of
such notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association for
crediting to the Credit Account) an  amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit  by  the  Association  into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
Page  12
