Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6774-MAG
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
(Report No. P 6774-MAG)
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 9.6 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
August 1, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                     Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ 1.00                                          FMG 4,266 (end-1995)
SDR I                                             US$ 1.49
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
MALAGASY FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAFC                 Constitutional, Administrative, and Financial Court
CBI                  Cross Border Initiative
CEDE                 Committee of Experts on Effective Decentralization
COMESA               Common Market for Eastem and Southem Africa
COREMEF              Comite des Reformes Macro-Economiques et Financieres
CORES                Comite des Reformes Sectorielles
CREC                 Comite Regional pour les Echanges Commerciaux
CRIC                 Comite Regional pour l'industrie et le Commerce
CSP                  Comite de Suivi des Projets
DIP                  Direction des Investissements Publics
ESAF                 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EUROSTAT             European Institute for Statistics
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
EMSAP                Economic Management and Social Action Project
ENM                  Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature
ICB                  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                  Intemational Development Agency
IEJ                  Institut d'Etudes Judiciaires
INSTAT               National Institute of Statistics
IOC                  Indian Ocean Commission
MFB                  Ministry of Finance and Budget
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non-Govemmental Organization
OGT                  Operations Globale du Tresor
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PEP                  Public Expenditure Programs
PFP                  Policy Framework Paper
PIP                  Public Investment Program
SAM                  Social Accounting Matrix
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
STA                  Technical Secretariat for Adjustment
TOR                  Terms of Reference
TWG                  Technical Working Group
UJNDP                United Nations Development Agency
USAID                Agency for Intemational Development



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SECTION A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                            ...................1
1.   Country and Operation Background .................................................................1
II.  The Project  ..................................................................3
Project Rationale .................................................................                              .3
Project Description .................................................................                            .         3
A. Strengthening Economic Management .............................................................             .4
1. Monitoring and Implementing Economic. Reforms ...............................................4
2. Support to the National Institute of StatisticsjIINSTAT) ......................................                  7
3. Support to the Departments of Finance, Budget, Planning and Economy .............9
a) Objective and Strategy for the Finance &  Budget Component .................... 10
b) Objective and Strategy for the Planning and Economy Component ............ 11
B. Strengthening Public Administration .................................................................  14
1. Civil Service Reform  ................................................................                         14
2. Decentralization ................................................................                              18
3. Legal and Judicial Reform  ................................................................                    21
C. Project Benefits and Risks ................................................................                          28
SECTION B. PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION .                                                        ............................................. 30
1.   Project Costs and Financing ................................................................                                  30
11.  Procurement ................................................................. 31
Employment of Consultants and Training ................................................................                  32
Procurement of Goods ................................................................                                   32
111. Disbursements ................................................................. 33
IV. Accounting and Auditing ................................................................                                       35
SECTION C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING . ................................................ 35
1.   Organization and Management ................................................................                                  35
11.  Implementation Schedule ................................................................                                      36
III. Reporting and Monitoring .....................                                                                                36
IV. Supervision Plan ......................                                                                                        36
V. Mid-term Review .....................                                                                                           36



Schedule A: Timing of Monitoring Indicators
Schedule B:: Project Implementation Plan
Schedule C: Project Cost Tables
Schedule D: Timetable for the Procurement of Goods and Services
Annex A: Declaration of Government Strategy for Public Sector Reform
Annex B: Supervision Plan
This repo  is based on the findings of an appasasl mission undertain  OctobOr :995 by a
team comprising of Messrs/Mies. Piere Domagl (County Economist MissiovlepdlerX Vera
Wilhelm (Economist), Ali Mansoor(EcOOOM    Phili  Icht) Hele Tbrahim
(Operations Assistant), Ra; Soopramanien i (Senior Counsl, and Rbt (aron (Legal
Consultant). Poer review was carried outbyit bM. Mark Schafte,r  Secrerial and editorial
Oassisne were provided by Ms, Lilisne Yomclp. T:    ouny Direto         Maascar is
Michael N. Sarris.



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Technical Annex
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    The following section provides background and technical information on the proposed
project and consists of four chapters: Chapter I presents the country background, Chapter 11
describes public sector issues, Chapter III presents the project rationale and a detailed description
of the development assistance objectives it will serve, and Chapter IV describes project benefits
and risks.
I. Country and Operation Background
2.    At US$430 in the early 1960s, Madagascar's per capita income was in line with that of
Indonesia (US$480), and was close to that of Thailand (US$620). Thirty years later, at US$230,
Madagascar's per capita income has declined to about half its level at the time of independence,
is less than one-third Indonesia's (US$740), and is about one-tenth Thailand's (US$2,100).
Indonesia and Thailand are just two among many other developing countries that have been able
to grow at much faster rates than Madagascar which, in essence, has lost three decades of
economic development. It is thus not surprising that Madagascar's economy has provided its
population (now 13 million people, of which 80 percent live and work in rural areas) few
opportunities to improve their living standards.  Whereas the incidence of poverty has
significantly declined in Indonesia, Thailand and other developing countries, it has increased in
Madagascar. The proportion of the population living in poverty (that is, consuming less than
what is necessary to meet basic nutritional requirements) has increased from 43 percent in the
1960s to close to 75 percent in the early 1990s. The evolution described by these statistics is
matched by the population's palpable sense that its standards of living have declined over time.
The population's sense of impoverishment is accentuated by a decline in its health and
educational standards and, perhaps more importantly, by little evidence that the country's current
development policies will significantly improve its economic prospects.
3.    Two factors have contributed to this situation: ill-advised economic policies pursued in
the last 25 years and population growth of almost 3 percent per year. For 10 years following its
independence in 1960, Madagascar enjoyed modest average growth of about 3 percent per year.
However, even that faltered in the mid-1970s, as the country underwent a socialist revolution
that brought authoritarian  rule and  interventionist economic  policies.   Widespread
nationalization and extensive controls led to a long period of economic decline, and large public
investments in the late 1970s created "white elephants", severe macro-economic imbalances, and
a heavy debt burden. In the mid-1980s, the government initiated reforms, supported by Bank-
financed sectoral adjustment operations; although growth resumed, the decline in living
standards was not reversed.
4.    In mid-1991, demonstrations and strikes in support of political liberalization swept the
country and signaled the start of a lengthy transition to pluralistic democracy. The adoption of a
new constitution in August 1992 led to the election of President Albert Zafy and a new national
assembly, as well as the accession of a new govemment under Prime Minister Francisque



2
Ravony in 1993. All these changes occurred peacefully after free and fair elections. During the
transition period, however, the reforms and adjustment program derailed.
5.    In 1994, the economic situation continued to deteriorate and the GDP stagnated. After
floating the exchange rate in May and designing the complete policy agenda for a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP), the government allowed inflation to mount through lax monetary
management and an ill-conceived, large-scale program of petroleum and commodity subsidies
that increased the budget deficit. In January 1995, the government replaced the management of
the Central Bank, declared its intention to implement adjustment policies and agreed with the
IMF on a stabilization plan to bring down the inflation rate. Tensions between the President and
the Prime Minister (PM) led to a national referendum in September 1995, which shifted authority
to choose the PM from the National Assembly to the President. As a result, the former PM
stepped down and was replaced by Emmanuel Rakotovahiny, who formed a new government in
November 1995. Economic performance in 1995 was still mediocre, with a further decrease in
real per capita GDP. Political infighting continued in late 1995/early 1996, with increased
debate centered on the issue of economic reform. In May 1996, the PM received a "no
confidence" vote from the National Assembly, and the President appointed Norbert
Ratsirahonana, previously head of the High Constitutional Court, as PM. The new PM has
indicated that he wants to move quickly on an IMF/Bank-supported adjustment program, as well
as on capacity building initiatives.
6.    Economic measures implemented thus far include floating of the exchange rate, sharp
price increases for energy and the elimination of commodity subsidies.  Recently, the
government began action to divest the state from the banking sector, prepare a full scale
divestiture of public enterprises, strengthen the incentives for private sector development, and
create a safety net to combat poverty. Public expenditures have remained relatively low at about
20 percent of GDP while the composition of the public investment program has improved (see
below). These moves, if sustained, will help restore the government's credibility, while
preparing the ground for further assistance by the Bank and IMF and possible debt relief from
the Paris Club.
7.    In the absence of a structural adjustment program, the policy dialogue with the new
government has remained intense and fruitful. In spite of policy lapses, key decisions, such as
the reform of the exchange rate system and the liberalization of the petroleum sector, have been
achieved. These significant measures are still not enough to fully qualify for adjustment lending
and for the confidence of the investor community. Key areas in which a consensus for reform is
growing but are still the subject of a dialogue with the donor community include government
disengagement from the banking system, privatization, and private sector development. The
proposed project is a necessary underpinning of the efforts to help the Government get over that
threshold by helping implement improvements in areas in which there is already strong
government commitment and supporting consensus building in the remaining areas.
8.    To take further reforms that are envisaged, there is a need for economic intelligence
work. There is also a need to strengthen overall the public administration, which is unable to
perform  adequately basic public services.   These needs were identified through the
implementation of the Economic Management and Social Action Project (EMSAP), dialogue
with the IMF and other donors, OED reports, and the Private Sector Assessment (PSA). The
proposed project aims at enabling Malagasy institutions to implement needed reforms and
improved management.



3
II. The Project
Project Rationale
9.     Since the political transition to democratic rule started in 1991, the political leaders have
had difficulties in formulating a clear vision of an economic strategy for growth which would
allow the population to emerge from  its present situation of extreme poverty.  Political
infighting, lack of leadership and conflicting short-term goals have been the reason for this
immobilism. After four years, the government seems to have reached an agreement on a reform
program and is pursuing discussions with the Bretton Woods Institutions on a structural
adjustment program. As a recent OED audit (February 1995) of structural adjustment programs
in Madagascar points out, these programs can only be successful if they take into account
capacity constraints in delivering technically complex reforms as well as the need for consensus
building. This issue was also stressed in a 1995 Borrower Feedback Survey. This creates a need
for well-targeted technical operations to prepare the ground for a wide-ranging economic reform
program.
10.   IDA's comparative advantage. The project focuses on capacity building  in areas
where IDA support has already been successfully provided under the EMSAP, which need to be
consolidated to ensure long term sustainability of ongoing reforms. New areas of intervention
are proposed in response to Madagascar's urgent need to improve governance. IDA is well
positioned to provide this support due to extensive lessons that have been drawn from past
experience with technical assistance operations and recent innovative initiatives, for example on
a participatory approach to civil service reform. Close cooperation with donors that have
significant experience in handling specific project components (such as EUROSTAT in
strengthening of INSTAT, USAID in legal and judiciary reform and the communication strategy,
and the French cooperation in strengthening the Ministries of Finance, Budget and Planning, and
support to decentralization and legal and judiciary reform) has helped to improve project design.
Project Description
11.   Project purpose. The proposed project would provide assistance to the government to
build capacity to implement economic reforms and improve public administration.
* Economic management. By reinforcing the agencies responsible for
macroeconomic management, the project would improve the government's capacity
to design and implement an economic reform program and contribute to a sharper
focus on poverty alleviation in allocating public resources. As insufficient
information on adjustment and economic reform  has been highlighted as an
important reason for a lack of public support for adjustment, the project would help
prepare a public information campaign.
*  Public administration. The project  would facilitate a fiscally responsible
implementation of the decentralization process, thus avoiding the waste of public
resources; it would foster participation in local planning and management of the
development process while also encouraging accountability; it would catalyze



4
consensus building on civil service reform within the administration, leading to
greater commitment to reform. Finally, the project aims at making effective the
"rule of law" and improving security of business transactions through the
independence and increased effectiveness of the judiciary. Overall, the project would
help the administration, civil service, and judicial system embrace a new vision of
the role of government -- another critical precondition for a successful transition to
a private sector driven economy. This is by essence a long-term endeavor. The
project's goal is to start the process by focusing on a few achievable, but significant,
areas where feasibility is demonstrated.  A detailed description of the project
components and sub-components is provided below.
A. Strengthening Economic Management
1. Monitoring and Implementing Economic Reforms
12.   In March 1995, the government, with an eye toward preparing a new  structural
adjustmnent program, decided to reinforce its capacity to design and analyze economic policy. A
technical support unit, the Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA), was created. Initial
STA activities have been supported with technical assistance under the ongoing EMSAP. The
STA consists of three members: a Secretary General and two technical experts, one in charge of
macro-economic policies and the other of sectoral policies. The STA has direct access to the
Prime Minister and plays a crucial role in informing and advising on the timely implementation
of reform measures and assures a steady flow of information between financial and technical
ministries, the private sector, and donor agencies. Several technicai committees facilitate its
work. The first, Comite des Reformes Macro-Economiques et Financieres (COREMEF),
establishes the macro-economic framework, while the second, Comite des Reformes Sectorielles
(CORES), deals with sectoral policies. A third committee, Comite pour la Dimension Regionale
de l'Adjustement (CODRA), was created to insure consistency between the adjustment program
and policies pursued under the regional integration initiatives, CBI, IOC and COMESA. The
main purpose of its work will be to propose policy measures and follow up on their
implementation.
Objectives of the STA
13.   The STA's responsibilities consist of (i) monitoring the ongoing economic and sectoral
reform program, particularly the interpretation and analysis of macro-economic and social
indicators; (ii) intensifying related economic dialogue and communication, and assisting the
government in preparing discussions of a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and SAC (ongoing);
(iii) informing government agencies involved in the adjustment process, (iv) mounting a public
information campaign on the adjustment program to mobilize broad based public support; and
(v) organizing and supporting the dialogue between private sector organizations and the
Government.
14.   In monitoring the ongoing economic and sectoral reform programs, the STA regularly:
(i) checks the status of reforms as defined in the government's policy matrix on--macro-
I/ IDA funds under PPF, No. 919-MAG, have financed advisory services and equipment of the STA.



5
economic, structural, and sectoral measures; (ii) follows macro-economic indicators agreed on
with the IMF and the World Bank and social indicators to be defined in cooperation with the
national statistical institute, INSTAT and UJNDP; (iii) supervises the dissemination and analysis
of statistical tables, such as the "Operations Globales du Trisor (OGT)", monetary accounts,
balance of payments, and real-sector accounts. Furthermore, the STA helps prepare structural
and sectoral reform programs and takes a leading role in coordinating and preparing the Policy
Framework Paper 1996-98. It follows up on structural and sectoral policies and assists the
authorities in the preparation of the policy dialogue that accompanies IMF/Bank-supported
adjustment programs. Based on those activities, the STA produces such reports as a monthly
assessment of the reform program (for the Government) and a quarterly bulletin (for the donor
community). It also comments on and proposes corrections to all new draft legislation related to
the adjustment program.
15.   The second important STA function is to launch a wide-ranging public information
campaigns to explain the adjustment process to the public. With technical assistance from two
local communication specialists, and in close cooperation with the ministries concerned, it will
organize seminars and workshops to familiarize members of the central and sectoral
administrations, the private sector, and the public with the objectives of the adjustment process.
USAID funded a participatory workshop in November 1994 and will support on-the-job training
of the communication specialist. The workshop resulted in-the formulation of a communication
strategy which has started being implemented. National media (radio, television, newspapers)
will help disseminate the information.
Issues to be Addressed
16.   Working conditions. To fulfill its mission, the STA needs continuous, unimpeded
access to economic and sectoral data plus the active support of the three associated committees,
COREMEF, CORES and CODRA. COREMEF meets regularly to prepare monthly economic-
indicator tables and a quarterly report on the implementation and impact of economic and
financial reform measures. CORES works mainly on defining and executing sectoral strategies;
it also supervises the activities of a committee (Comite de Suivi des Projets, CSP) designated to
monitor the implementation of projects in the three-year rolling public investment program
(PIP). This committee was first established in the context of the 1994 Country PortfQlio
Performance Review of IDA-financed projects, and the government in£tends to expand its scope
to cover other projects in the PIP. In relation with adjustment process, CODRA harmonizes
Madagascar' commitments in the context of regional cooperation; it coordinates the setting up of
adopted measures by concerned departments. The three committees can be summoned on short
notice by the STA to discuss urgent economic and sectoral policy issues. Regular meetings and
information exchange are essential and should be monitored as one performance indicator of this
component. The government has already devised a plan for a communications strategy in the
context of a national communications seminar and has started to issue small publications on the
adjustment program, targeted to the general population.
Performance Indicators
17.   A number of performance indicators have been identified to allow the monitoring of
proposed actions (strengthening of STA, training, information campaign) with respect to the
objectives they are expected to achieve (improved quality of technical dossiers; dissemination of



6
information on economic development and policies within the government; internalization of
adjustment program).
Objective/Output                               Indicator/Means                      Timing
1. Support to the STA
Coordination and preparation of technical documentation:
*   for structural adjustment program                PFP and matrix of policy actions;        October 1996 with
*   Macro-economic framework                         Monthly statistical report on:           regular updating
money, prices, budget, BOP, etc.         monthly
Implementation of regional integration               CODRA creation and launching of          September 1996
technical activities
*   Follow up of sectoral reform measures;           Periodic reports on:
*   Early recognition of policy deviations;          (i) progress in sector reform and advise on    monthly
*   Development of sectoral strategies.              policy actions;
(ii) progress in the infornation campaign.    quarterly
Improve dialogue between govemment and private sector  Annual report from the private sector  annually
associations to assess status of
government/private sector relationship
Strengthening of poverty alleviation mechanisms (social   (i) Regular compilation of data on prices,    quarterly
safety net)                                          employment, health, education, and
income;
(ii) Data sheet with social indicators defined  annually
by STA/ [NSTAT / UNDP to help monitor
the impact of economic reform (incidence
of reform measures)
Explain benefits and rational of the adjustment program  (i) Report on information and        December 1995
to the administration, private sector and wider population   communication strategy;           Starting in January
(ii) monthly progress reports on the     1996
information                              Starting in June 1996
campaign;
(iii) small publications on adjustment   October 1996
process;
(iv) execution and analysis of opinion polls
assessing the effectiveness of the
information campaign
Project Support and Costing
18.     The project proposes continued technical support of the STA during the preparation and
initial phase of the adjustment program . It also proposes continued technical assistance by up to
two local communication specialists (trained by a USAID-financed international consultant) for
two years to fine tune the strategy and support implementation of the communication and
information  campaign.   The  detailed  budget proposal below  specifies the  costs of this
component.



7
Table 1: STA Component - Estimated Costs
(US$ '000)
Total Costs
(including contingencies)
1. Investment Costs
A. Consultancies
I. Technical Assistance                                           151,1
2. Training                                                       375.4
3. Studies                                                        175.0
4. Public Information Campaign                                    613.6
Subtotal Consultancies                                            1,315.1
B. Miscellaneous
PPF Refinancing                                                 262.5
Total Investment Costs                                             1,577.6
I. Recurrent Costs
. Equipment Operation and Maintenance                               64.4
Total Recurrent Costs                                                 64.4
Total Cost                                                     1,642.0
* for detailed breakdown see Schedule C, Table 1.
2. Support to the National Institute of Statistics (INSTAT)
Background and Overview
19.    INSTAT compiles statistical data in Madagascar. INSTAT's main tasks are to produce
national accounts, publish the consumer price index, compile statistical data on foreign trade and
industrial production, and process civil service payroll data. The poor overall quality and
reliability of data stem from several factors: uncertain collection at the source in terms of
methodology, coordination, and consistency; and an outdated data base, national accounts
system, and consumer price index (the base year for the index is 1972). There is a perceived
need to strengthen the statistical system, and in particular, its capacity to produce national
accounts, households surveys and business cycle surveys on a regular and timely basis.
Objectives and Strategy
20.    On the national accounts, the objective is to strengthen INSTAT's institutional capacity
in order to produce an updated set of national accounts, which will provide a basis for the
assessment of economic performance, for forecasts of medium-term economic development and
for information requested by the private sector.
21.    The proposed project will help INSTAT to prepare: the base national accounts for 1993,
including a complete user's manual; methodology to prepare light annual accounts and compile
the data base; yearly light accounts; and the projection of national accounts over three outer
years. All activities will be accompanied by intensive training of the INSTAT staff members,
including those involved in data collection at the regional level and the necessary acquisition of
equipment.
22.    The results of Madagascar's household welfare monitoring and analysis system,
published in February 1996, will provide the basis for a number of analytical workshops, some



8
of them doing further work for the preparation of a social accounting matrix (SAM) once the
relevant national account data is available. Workshop topics would cover agricultural sector
activities, the informal sector, employment and income generation, and social sectors.-- They
would follow up on the scheduled EDI-financed workshops on dissemination of the poverty
assessment. To monitor living conditions over time and further develop the poverty profile, the
proposed project will support the preparation of more selective permanent or priority surveys.
That requires the definition of focus (household sample, theme) and methodology of priority
surveys, as well as the preparation of a user's manual. Priority surveys will be undertaken every
second year, starting in 1996. Price data and indices will be published on a permanent basis.
23.    The objective of the project with respect to business cycle surveys is to assemble and
train a permanent INSTAT team able to produce such surveys two or tree times a year. Its first
task will be to prepare a user's manual to carry out the surveys. Questions about the surveys'
methodology and coverage will have to be addressed within a small workshop for potential users
and survey staff. One workshop to determine the methodology will be organized in October
1996.
Performance Indicators
24.    The government has confirmned its commitment to disseminate the data collected by the
household survey and make it available for wide public use. INSTAT would have to prepare a
data sheet on social developments, based on the findings of the household welfare monitoring
and analysis system, and make it available to the STA, first in December 1996 and then on a
yearly basis. Timely delivery of outcomes will be measured against the following schedule:
Objective I Output                        Indicator I Means           Timing
I. Support to the National Institute of Statistics (INSTAT)
i. Complete national accounts database 1993-94-95     Semifinal national accounts 1993   June 1997
Final national accounts 1993  September 1997
Final national accounts 1994  December 1997
Final national accounts 1995  March 1998
ii. Raise the profile of poverty issues in economic policy  Disseminate results of first  December 1997
formulation                                        household survey
Disseminate results of second  December 1999
household survey
iii. Monitoring business cycles                        Publication of first business cycle   June 1996
survey
Publication of second business  October 1996
cycle survey
Publication of second business  December 1996
cycle survey
Project Support and Costing
25.    The proposed project will finance the technical assistance, equipment, and training
needed to design, conduct, and disseminate light national accounts, priority household surveys,
and a business cycle survey. Technical assistance will be required over short periods to establish
the procedures within INSTAT and to provide on-the-job-training and quality control. External



9
training will be financed as needed. The detailed budget proposal specifies the costs of this
component in Table 2:
Table 2: INSTAT Component - Estimated Costs*
(US$ '000)
Total Costs
(including contingencies)
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Vehicle                                                     21.3 -
2. Office Equipment                                           168.2
3. Tech.Manuals on Natl.Accts.& Business Survey                 4.2
Subtotal Goods                                                  193.7
B. Consultancies
1. Technical Assistance                                       479.7
2. Training                                                   275.8
3. Surveys                                                    138.6
Subtotal Consultancies                                         894.1
Total Investment Costs                                          1,256.3
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Equipment Operation and Maintenance                          143.7
B. Operating Costs (Household Survey)                          142.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                            286.2
Total Cost                                                 1,542.5
*for detailed breakdown see Schedule C, Table 2.
3. Support to the Departments of Finance, Budget, Planning and Economy
Institutional Setting
26.    The Departments of Finance and Budget are the central agencies charged with
developing a financial, fiscal, and budget strategy for Madagascar. It manages state assets, the
treasury, the budget, the payroll and, it also coordinates relations with some donor organizations
(European Union, African Development Bank, FAC, Caisse Francaise de Developpement, etc...).
27.    The Treasury (Direction Generale du Tresor) plays a key role in the management of
public finance. It is responsible for fiscal receipts, payment of expenses, management of the
State treasury, management of the public debt and securities (Portefeuille de I'Etat), and within
the context of the implementation of the financial law, its accountants manage the State's
accounts, ensure financial and accounting management of local governments and certain public
autonomous agencies. Given the Treasury's evolving role and areas of interventions, as well as
the increasing volume of operations, its goal of increased efficiency and effectiveness, an
organizational audit of the Treasury will provide the basis for its reorganization. Many of the
Treasury's procedures are outdated and are replete with manual tasks. Its personnel is in dire
need of training (in-service), and the office of the Director General of Treasury needs to recruit
competent technical staff, capable of executing the mandate of the institution today and in the
future.
28.    The  Budget office  (Direction  du  Budget)  is responsible  for the  formulation,
implementation and monitoring of the budget. The main activities are the coordination for



10
budget forecasting analysis, the centralization of budget execution operations, the preparation of
the budget regulatory law (loi de reglement), the financial oversight of state autonomous
agencies, and the consolidation of Public Expenditure Programs (PEP), in close association with
the Public Investment Office (Planning Department).
29.    Payroll management (Direction de la Gestion Financiere du Personnel de l'Etat) for the
entire civil service is under MFB's Directorate for personnel financial management About
90,000 agents are paid under the present system. The computerized preparation of the monthly
payroll has been farmed out for years to the National Institute of Statistics (INSTAT). The
computer equipment is outdated and more importantly, the procedures are cumbersome and
inefficient. Four agencies intervene in the process: The Ministry of Civil Service (in charge of
career management), the Directorate for personnel financial management, the INSTAT, and the
Treasury (for payment); this results in long processing times and low reliability of payroll data.
30.    The Planning and Economy Departments are known as the Direction Generale du Plan
(DGP) and the Services de l'Economie. The Planning Department structure (DGP) in
Madagascar consists of a central agency and sectoral and regional planning bodies, and is
primarily responsible for economic planning and so for the coordination of design and
implementation of economic, sectoral and regional policies. All government institutions, public
enterprises and other public agencies operate under its authority in respect to public investment.
The DGP is mandated to ensure (i) the annual preparation and the quarterly monitoring of the
physical and financial execution of the public investment program (PIP), (ii) the consolidation of
public expenditure programs (PEP) at a ministry level, (iii) the preparation of a regional
development program, and (iv) the cooperation with donor agencies. The Economy Department
structure is mandated to ensure the coordination of macroeconomic policies in close relation
with STA (P.M.'s Office) and the newly created Secretariat Permanent a la Prevision Macro-
Economique (Finance Department).
a) Objectives and Strategy for the Finance & Budget Component
3 1.   Assistance to specific units: The project aims at helping the authorities determine trade-
offs between allocations for different types of expenditure and receive the needed information
for fiscal policy . It will do this by assisting various units in providing the required information
on the budget in a more transparent and timely manner:
* Permanent Secretariat for Macroeconomic Forecasting: the main objective of the
newly created "Secretariat Permanent i la Prevision Macro-economique", is to establish
on a regular basis the macroeconomic framework and to analyze the policy options.
*  Treasury: the objective is to reorganize the Direction Generale du Tresor (DGT) to
enable it, within the same payroll, to improve revenue collection and debt management,
reduce disbursement lags under investment projects and improve budget programming
and execution. With this in mind, the project will finance an organizational audit of the
Treasury to provide guidance for the reorganization. The audit will review: (i) the
Treasury's missions; (ii) the organization of central and regional services, their capacity
to implement tasks assigned to them, human resources and equipment; (iii) the
procedures for revenue collection; (iv) the accounting procedures, the information flow
and the consolidation of accounts; (v) the causes for the delays in producing the yearly
statements of budget execution; (vi) the Treasury special accounts covering earmiarked
operations, with a view to budgetize them; (vii) the impact of the budget reform and the



11
new government accounting plan; (viii) the impact of the decentralization on the
Treasury missions and methods. The project will also finance an evaluation of the debt
management system and how it can be transferred to the Treasury.
*  Budget Ofrice: consultant services will be provided to improve the capacity to monitor
the implementation of the budget (in parallel with the improvement at the level of the
Treasury). An organizational audit is also necessary considering the ongoing reform and
also the retraining and the staff reallocation at central and regional level. The project will
also finance training and computerization.
*  Autonomous Agencies (Etablissements Publics and Budgets Annexes): an audit of these
agencies will be supported by the project to review their legal and financial status and
propose reforms to improve their treatment in the budget. A financial audit of the
Treasury commercial accounts (Comptes Particuliers du Tresor) will also be realized.
*  Payroll Management: the proposed project will support the rehabilitation and
modernization of the payroll. New computer procedures will be put in place under the
direct responsibility of the directorate for personnel financial management.  A
preliminary study is being financed under the PPF. According to the results of the
preliminary study, new procedures will be put into place and the personnel involved will
be retrained. In a third phase, the project will finance the development of the new
computerized system, including the equipment. This will enable (i) linking the personnel
management and payroll; (ii) keeping up to date the list on which payments are based;
(iii) simplify the management of personnel to introduce flexibility in the deployment of
staff (see also component on civil service reform).
b) Objectives and Strategy for the Planning and Economy Component
32.    The government has designed a work program for 1996-97 that includes (i) a training
program of seminars and workshops to be held in Madagascar, as well as training abroad and (ii)
specific technical assistance requirements as detailed below. The government also plans an
overall assessment of the planning and economy structures and functions. This assessment is
required given the intensive workload of the Planning and Economy Departments and the
potential for duplicating the activities of Finance and Budget Departments.
33.    Assistance to specific units: the objective of assisting specific units is to enhance the
return of the public investment portfolio. The Direction Gneirale du Plan (DGP) and the Comite
de Suivi des Projets (CSP) need to develop stronger analytical capacity to assess whether the
proposed projects fit into sectoral, regional, and national economic policies and strategies, and
have an impact on the fiscal balance and benefit the economy as a whole. The project will
finance:
* an Organizational Audit of the Planning and Economy Departments: The Departments
of Plan and Economy are faced with a complex task resulting from the fusion of the old
departments of Plan, Economy as well as the Directorate for Population.  The
organization of the Department of Plan and Economy is characterized by this fusion
which is not adequate for its current ambitious mandate. The organizational audit will
be carried out to:



12
(i)    ensure that there are no redundancies in its mandate;
(ii)   ensure complementarity in the implementation and in the
monitoring and evaluation of activities;
(iii)   redefine the roles of the various services vis a vis the technical
ministries and donors, in order to better focus and analyse basic
information.
a Study Fund (Fonds d'Etudes de Projets), for interministerial use, primarily aimed at
the economic analysis of all new projects to determine if they are economically viable,
provided that rate of return analysis is applicable, or to explore least cost alternatives, or
the rationale for government intervention. The economic analysis will also verify the
consistency of the proposed project with macroeconomic and sectoral strategies, and
assess its impact on imports, employment, debt, and generated recurrent costs. The
primary responsibility for preparing an economic analysis will remain with the sectoral
ministry. Although this analysis might be financed by a donor, the responsibility
remains with the Directorate for Public Investment to verify that it is satisfactory. The
study fund will be used to finance additional economic studies when the initial study is
not decisive or convincing. It will also review projects which have been on-going for a
long time in order to determine whether they are still valid and consistent with the
economic strategy of the country. The study fund will also finance economic studies of
programs, with the objective of redefining them to make them consistent with sectoral
strategies and focus on priority expenditures.  Moreover, it will support ex-post
evaluations of projects, as well as empirical analysis of recurrent costs and the
development impact of projects. Every year, the DGP and the CSP will prepare an
annual program of studies for the next year to be agreed with the Bank.
* assistance to the Directorate for Public Investment (Direction des Investissements
Publics) to improve sectoral policy design, expenditure management, and the
implementation of the PIP and PEPs. In 1996, four ministries (Agriculture, Public
Works, Education and Health) will be assisted in reviewing expenditures with an eye
toward confirming their consistency with sectoral policies and determining the allocation
of operational, investment, and recurrent expenditures in the 1997 budget. The other
main ministries are slated for similar assistance during 1997. The specific objectives are
to finalize a PEP preparation manual, train personnel in technical Ministries, revise
budgetary procedures in order to integrate the PEPs fully into the preparation of the
budget and PIP, and rationalize the physical monitoring of PIP execution;
*  assistance to support the Programming and Monitoring Units (Correspondants
Sectoriels) of the technical ministries, under guidance from the Direction des
Investissements Publics, elaborate sector policies and the strategies to implement them;
*  technical assistance aimed at developing a Manualfor Project Evaluation and training
staff at the DGP and the concerned technical ministries; follow up and implementation
would be monitored by a national consultant.
*  Support to the Project Monitoring Committee (Comite de Suivi des Projets/CSP) whose
activities are complementary to that of the Sectoral Reform Committee (Comite des



13
Reformes Sectorielles (CORES) of the Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA) in
terms of equipment and training of cadres.
*   Support for the publication of economic information aimed at having an impact on
investment (public sector and private sector) in the national economy.
Performance indicators for the finance and planning components have been specified as follows:
111. Support to the Department s of Finance, Budget, Planning and Economy
Macroeconomic Framework
*   Creation of the Permanent Secretariat for          Replacement of the former Macroeconomic Framework Unit  July 1996
Macroeconomic Forecasting
*   Make fully operational the "Secretariat Permanent i la   Strengthen Department of Finances' technical services
Prevision Macroeconomique" with adapted                                                                    August 1996
modelization methodology                           Provide macroeconomic frameworks on a regular basis     As of September
*   Improve macroeconomic framework and economic                                                               1996
policies analysis
Tax collection
Improve collections: implement recommendations     Collect 80 percent of receipts due in year when obligation  June 1997
from audit of Treasury; reorganize procedures and  arises and the remainder the followo'l,  year
reallocate staff
Expenditure savings
*   Impose criteria applied to central govemment on    Effect savings in the 0.5 percent of GDP currently      1997 budget
autonomous agencies (etablissements publics +      transferred to the autonomous agencies
budgets annexes): implement recommendations from
study and cut budget transfers
*   Auditing of Treasury Commercial Accounts           Improved control of Commercial Accounts                 1997 Budget
*   Cut off payments from civil servants not in service:
implement recommendations of study, reorganize     Save FMG 3 billion in payments                          1997 budget
procedures and reallocate staff
Expenditure reallocation and flexibility
*   Reallocate expenditure to priority uses in parallel with   Achieve reallocation objectives: cut public expenditure by    By the year
overall reduction in expenditure: implement        2% of GDP while the PIP is kept at 8.5% of GDP and      2000. Annual
recommendations from consultants, reorganize       social spending at 5.5% of GDP;                        targets for
procedures and reallocate staff                                                                           intervening years
to be defined on
the basis of the
adjustment
dialogue;
*   Use sector strategies as a basis for expenditure   PEPs will be prepared for at least I0 ministries;       1997 budget
allocations and, hence, project selection: go from 10  Other ministries will have a PEP;                   1998 budget
ministries to all with sector strategies; ensure all  All new projects will have an economic analysis      1997 budget
projects have an economic evaluation and are viable



14
c) Project support and costing
34.    A detailed breakdown of the costs for this component is presented in Table 4 below:
Table 3: Departments of Finance, Budget, Planning and Economy
Estimated Costs* (US$ '000)
Total Costs
(including
contingencies)
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Office Equipment a/                                     675.1
2. Publications                                             25.9
Subtotal Goods                                                701.1
B. Consultancies
1. Technical Assistance                                    710.0
2. Training                                                719.2
3. Studies (Project Fund)                                1,038.1
Subtotal Consultancies                                      2,467.3
C. Miscellaneous
PPF Refinancing                                            237.9
Unallocated/Contingencies                                   31.0
11. Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                                             44.7
Total Costs                                               3,482.0
a/ Includes computerization of the Treasury, Budgetary
Reform and the Payroll sub-components.
* for detailed breakdown see Schedule C, Tables 3 and 4 (which have been combined in above table).
B. StrengtheningPublicAdministration
1. Civil Service Reform
Introduction and Overview
35.    Profile of the Civil Service. The civil service in Madagascar has shrunk to a relatively
modest size, representing approximately 1% of the population. Over the last 15 years, civil
service salaries have decreased significantly in real terms. Geographically, civil servants are
highly concentrated: 40,000 employees work in Antananarivo, the capital city, and another
10,000 in Antananarivo Faritany, the surrounding province. Two-thirds are employed in health
and education services, the government's declared priority sectors. Due to the hiring freeze
decided in 1991 and previous financial constraints, the civil service population is aging. The
average age is 47; 54% of civil servants are over 45; 97% are over 35; and 28% over 55, the
legal age for retirement. Since no career development plans exist, favoritism and routine
promotions have an outsized influence. Responsibilities are often not clearly defined, and
decision making is too centralized. Over the last years, the situation of the aging, underpaid and
understaffed civil service has been deteriorating, fostered by a populist new civil service statute
adopted in 1993 which almost eliminates performance incentives. The government is well aware
of these problems and favors a more participatory approach to civil service reform, based on
self-evaluation and an active role of civil servants in solution finding.



15
Objectives and Strategy
36.    The proposed project would assist the government in (i) creating a forum for identifying
issues for which a political decision will be necessary and (ii) the organization of workshops
with broad participation which will help consensus building and solution finding within the civil
2
service. Concepts identified in a Bank report issued in 1991 , such as administrative efficiency,
sound performance and upgraded human resources would guide this effort, with the objective of
bringing about a better qualified, better paid and motivated civil service, as a basis for an
effective, decentralized government better suited to the changing role of the state and its new
tasks and responsibilities.
37.    An initial national workshop championed by a high level politician (Prime Minister)
would take place to review the reform agenda proposed in the 1991 report updated to incorporate
new developments -- with the objective of determining a reform agenda in line with a short- and
medium-term strategy. This would be followed by four sectoral and six regional workshops.
Sectoral workshops would concentrate specifically on social sector ministries which employ
70% of civil servants and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Public Works, the
Departments of Finance and Budget and the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization, which
play an important role in remuneration and management of civil servants, respectively. The
regional workshops would be designed to undertake an in depth analysis of problem areas
selected in the national workshop and to develop short and medium term action plans. This
approach will be complemented by a pilot diagnostic study for the ministries of health, education,
agriculture and public works (for which the reallocation of responsibilities to the local level is
highly important) on how to effect and manage a transfer of responsibilities to the decentralized
level and implement an incentive related personnel management system. These studies will be
conducted in close coordination with efforts underway in those ministries under sectoral projects.
The participatory approach would culminate in a final national workshop, again headed by the
Prime Minister, which would present solutions and action plans with a detailed timetable of actions
and expected results. Proposals will be formulated as part of an overall strategy for civil service
reform and will result in proposed laws and decrees for the Government to propose for adoption by
Parliament.
38.    The main workshop topics are: (i) role, organization, and operations of government; (ii)
how to redirect the public administration toward a focus on service delivery and result orientation;
(iii) how to guarantee staff competency through initial vocational training, recruitment, appropriate
incentives, career management, and in-service training; (iv) duties and obligations of civil servants;
and (v) administrative and financial management of civil service personnel. The government has
already set many of the workshop rules of procedure. Specific outcomes of these workshops could
be: a proposal for an improved performance related incentive structure in the civil service, a
national or sectoral training program(s), a proposal for the redeployment of civil servants in line
with priority needs.
39.    Three groups will participate in the workshops: the State (as employer); representatives
of government workers' organizations (workers' unions and other civil servant professional
organizations) and the representatives of the public service users; representatives of the National
Assembly, domestic and foreign businesses, NGOs, and international agencies, will all
2 Rapport Diagnostic sur la Gestion du Personnel de l'Etat (1991)



16
participate. In addition, each ministry will appoint its staff to attend. One danger, however, is
that the workshops could be monopolized by government workers complaints. To forestall this,
the Ministry of Civil Service plans to prepare a detailed information package which will help
civil servants to understand key issues and to take a responsible approach towards the
participation process. The Government will also use the workshops as a vehicle to coordinate
donor programs.
40.    As regards the above-mentioned diagnostic study in health and education, first existing
audits of the two ministries will be reviewed; then, the study team will quickly make specific
proposals for restructuring, redeployment of functions and personnel management, and
modification of operating practices and procedures. In the Malagasy context of decentralization
and deconcentration, the latter implying the relocation of government agencies from the capital to
regional circonscriptions, the team will also update personnel census figures for those two key
ministries. It will recommend redeployment of some staff from the center to the periphery, or the
elimination of central units implementing functions devolved to decentralized governments.
41.    A special "innovation fund" will be created to help finance reforms at the micro-level. It
will provide resources to implement the recommendations derived from the workshops and to
address needs that are identified as the project proceeds. A legal covenant will ensure that funds
can only be used in line with project objectives subject to IDA approval. The general coordinator
of the project, in conjunction with the concerned ministries, will coordinate the allocation of
resources. Fundable sub-projects would include specific studies, training, reorganization of
administrative services, and computerization.
Issues to be Addressed
42.    Government commitment to reform was recently stressed in a general policy statement
of the Ministry of Civil Service (FOP). The statement cites the goal of "a more efficient, less
centralized government that is better adapted to change and a diversity of tasks." As mentioned
above, the government needs to give momentum to reform by assigning an official from the
highest echelon of government to champion in particular the national workshops.
43.    It will be important to coordinate the workshops carefully at all three levels.  The
conclusions from the diagnostic studies on the pilot ministries should be made available as
quickly as possible, so the two approaches, diagnostic studies and workshop(s), can be closely
linked.
44.    Workshop facilitation should be approached with care. The Minister of Civil Service
will provide one week of training for numerous personnel managers to familiarize them with
such work, particularly, in the methodology of handling workshops. Facilitators, serving as
technical assistants/advisers to workshop chairpersons and participants, will work in a
consultative role. IDA will provide support to the government in selecting facilitators and
helping in: (i) training workshops moderators; (ii) preparing representatives of the civil service
for their role in the workshops; and (iii) in coordinating and handling the logistics of the
operation.



17
Performance Indicators
45.     Expected outcomes with respect to the pilot studies are the development of a human
resource management strategy in health, education, civil service and agriculture and the
reorganization of the ministries in line with the legislation on decentralization. The workshops
are expected to lead to a national action plan on civil service reform, a new civil service statute
and the development of transparent performance criteria for civil servant evaluation in at least
two ministries.
Objective / Output                                 Indicator I Means                     Timing
1. Civil Service Reform
Development of Incentives programs for civil servants  *   Identification of beneficiaries within public  September 1996
administration services
*   Definition of performance's criteria for at
least four ministries                      Budget 1997
Pilot studies in the health, education, public works, and  General reorganization in line with the legislation    December 1997
agriculture ministries                               on decentralization
National workshop to conclude on an agreed strategy and   (i) Develop action plans for each area that was  December 1996
process for civil service reformn                    identified and discussed in regional and sectoral
workshops,                                     Second
(ii) Present to parliament a new civil service  parliamentary
statute and related texts;                     session in May
(iii) Develop in at least two miinistries transparent    1997.
performance criteria and incentive mechanisms for  November 1996 to
evaluation of civil servants                   be applied to the
1997 budget
Project support and costing
46.     The detailed budget proposal below specifies the costs of this component.
Table 4. Civil Service Reform Component - Estimated Costs*
(US$ '000)
Total Costs
(incl. contingencies)
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
I Vehicle                                                                42.4
2. Office Equipment:                                                      18.7
Subtotal Goods                                                             61.1
B. Consultancies
1. Training                                                              10.0
2. Workshops                                                            268.2
3. Studies                                                               136.8
4. Pilot operations-                                                    948.8
Subtotal Consultancies                                                  1,363.8
C. Miscellaneous
1. PPF Refinancing                                                       17.8
Total Costs                                                          1,442.7
*for detailed breakdown, see Schedule C, Table 6.



18
2. Decentralization
Introduction and Overview
47.    The new constitution (approved by referendum in September 1992) states that effective
decentralization is an essential condition for the harmonious development of the sovereign
Malagasy people. A new administrative structure encompassing central and local governments
was laid out in draft legislation presented to parliament, emphasizing the need for effective
decentralization, and the "deconcentration" of those services and functions which were to remain
the responsibility of the central Government. Shortly afterwards, the Parliament passed a number
of laws designed to apply this approach completely and consistently throughout the administration.
These laws established the following principles: (i) powers were to be assigned to the various
levels of local government in such a manner that costly and confusing overlaps would be avoided;
(ii) the costs transferred to local authorities would be funded from their own resources; (iii)-taxes
were to be specific, to allow for transparency and democratic control; (iv) local governments were
to be managed by elected officials, without any central intervention other than that provided for by
jurisdiction.
48.    Nevertheless, problems arose as a result of the structure imposed by these laws, mainly due
to a lack of the expertise and technical studies necessary to prepare their implementation. This had
a negative effect on the viability of the many local government bodies that had been established,
and the distribution of tasks and resources. A gradual introduction of the decentralization process
as envisaged by the Government today, should help to address these problems.
49.   In two reports to the Government (1994 and 1995), the Bank submitted recommendations
regarding the following: (i) clarification of the distribution of fiscal resources; (ii) the need for
more realistic budgeting, in particular without increasing the burden on the central government
budget; (iii) improving collection of the local taxes that had been approved by vote, in order to
increase local government resources; (iv) enhancing service delivery at local level by improving
management, modernizing procedures, and (v) privatizing certain activities. The objective was to
overcome the disadvantages of the previous system by establishing an institutional, administrative,
and financial framework that would allow local governments to become active players in the
development of their areas and to deliver their services efficiently.
50.    According to the constitution, legislative provisions pertaining to local governments were
supposed to be in place no later than March 1994. A Committee of Experts on Effective
Decentralization (CEDE) was created in December 1993 and charged with preparing, carrying out,
and coordinating all necessary studies, and implementing effective decentralization. The first
municipal elections took place on November 4, 1995. An Interministerial Committee for
Decentralization and Deconcentration (CIDD) will be created in August 1996 to replace the CEDE
whose missions have been completed since the elections. The CIDD will be presided by a
representative from the Prime Minister's Office, and composed of representatives from seven
technical ministries.
51.    Thus far, the authorities do not possess sufficient data and technical know-how/means to
facilitate the smooth transition from a largely centralized government to a self-reliant local
administration. An institutional framework, covering administrative as well as financial aspects,
needs to be put in place to ensure the high quality and cost effective provision of local services.



19
This framework should be designed so that decentralization and "decoli'entration" do not lead to
the "deconcentration" of central government services in functions that have already been transferred
to local governments, or are likely to be transferred to them. From a macroeconomic perspective,
increases in government investment must be supported by mobilizing public savings, especially
through an increased collection of taxes and an increase in revenue at the local level.
Objectives and Strategy
52.    To support the decentralization process the project will: (i) finance studies to help in the
design and implementation of the decentralization process; (ii) support training of the political
personnel and higher level staff of the new local governments, and design a training program to
provide in-depth support for decentralization; (iii) support pilot programs for implementing
decentralization in a few selected urban centers.
53.    Studies. The authorities have identified the following set of seven studies needed to guide
them during the decentralization process: (i) an analysis of the functions transferred to
decentralized governments and their financial, budgetary, and organizational implications; (ii) a
review of the structures and methods for fostering the participation of the population and local
NGOs in local govemment decision-making; (iii) preparation of a specific budgetary and
accounting framework for local governments; (iv) a study of the modalities of human resource
management in decentralized governments; (v) an inventory of existing taxes, identification of
possible new local taxes, and proposals for the introduction of a local tax system; (vi) a study of
ways of improving the management of municipal services; and (vii) an evaluation and summary of
the results of the first phase of implementation.
54.    Training. Politicians, managers and the personnel of the decentralized governments will
have to exercise their functions in a new institutional environment, and the quality of their training
will be crucial to the success of decentralization. Training activities will extend beyond the scope
of the project; however, the latter will contribute to the training effort in the following ways:
* Seminars for informing and raising the consciousness of mayors and central
government representatives on the implications of decentralization for local budgets,
taxes, the management of technical services, and the privatization of local industrial
and commercial activities;
* Training of the heads (maires) of the communes, as well as the heads of technical
departments. The project will concentrate on large and medium-sized communes as
a priority, and at the same time, will identify potential trainers who could extend the
training to other local governments;
* Design of a training plan to fulfill the training needs of local governments in a timely
manner.
55.    Pilot operations.  Following the example of the successful overhaul of municipal
management in Antsirabe, the project would help implement decentralization in a few large cities
and neighboring communes, in order to provide examples for other local governments and useful
lessons for the continuation of the operation. The project will assist in putting into place the budget
and tax administration for those cities, as well as establishing the organizational pattern of city



20
management. To this end, it will provide training, technical assistance and some computer
equipment.
Performance Indicators
56.     Performance is targeted as follows:
Objective/Output                            Indicator/Means                    Timing
Decentralization
Enact transfer of competencies to decentralized levels    Budget execution 1997         by December 1997
described in 1994 legislation with zero costs for the
budget
Promote sound fiscal management                    Establish 6 pilot communes with a    July 1998
final 1997 account approved according
to the law
Improve local governments                          *   Training 200 mayors              December 1997
*   Training 500 mayors             July 1999
*   Training of top management       December 1997
agents in 45 urban communes
Project Support and Costing
57.     A detailed breakdown of the costs for this component is given below:
Table 5: Decentralization Component - Estimated Costs*
(US$ '000)
Total Costs
(including contingencies)
I. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Vehicle                                                            31.9
2. Office Equipment                                                   121.5
Subtotal Goods                                                          153.4
B. Consultancies
1. Technical Assistance                                              928.2
2. Seminars for trainers                                               60.9
3. Study tours for cadres                                            213.2
4. Pilot operations (fiscal census)                                  207.3
Subtotal Consultancies                                                1,409.6
C. Miscellaneous
1. PPF Refinancing                                                    256.2
2. Unallocated/contingencies                                            7.5
Subtotal Miscellaneous                                                  263.7
Total Investment Costs                                                  1,826.7
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs                                                        6.2
Total Costs                                                        1,832.9
*for detailed breakdown, see Schedule C, Table 5.



21
3. Legal and Judicial Reform
Introduction and Overview
58.    Along with other former French colonies in Africa, Madagascar inherited at
independence a legal system that was essentially of French origin. But the country also had a
well-developed system of customary law, both written and unwritten, reaching back to pre-
colonial days. The judicial sector has been deprived of the human and the physical resources it
needs to perform its functions.
The Laws
59.    General. French law was formally introduced in 1895. In the absence of applicable
provisions in the modem law, however, Malagasy courts still apply customary-law principles to
the extent that they are ascertainable, well-established, and not contrary to public order or good
practices.
60.    The complex interaction between French and Malagasy law, coupled with the incidence
of customary law, has created a situation where laws remain a matter of conjecture, thus making
it difficult for practitioners to apply them correctly. Legislation governing commercial and
business activities is largely outdated, and laws have not been readily accessible to users. Further,
there has been no systematic coordination of law reform.
61.    Commercial Code. The French Commercial Code, introduced in Madagascar in 1895,
has often been amended by both the French and Malagasy legislatures.  The provisions
governing bankruptcies and company restructuring were amended in the early 1960s to make
them more responsive to the modern business environment. Those provisions draw a sharp
distinction between insolvent debtors who act in bad faith and deserve to be eliminated and
others who act in good faith and deserve to be supported. The interests of creditors therefore
receive greater consideration than those of enterprises and their employees.
62.    The Registre du commerce was established for purely administrative purposes by a law
dating back to 1919. In the course of time, the law has been amended on numerous occasions to
allow it to play an increasingly prominent role in the disclosure of infornation pertaining to
companies. In practice, the registre has been maintained in such a haphazard manner that the
information it provides is neither complete nor reliable.
63.    Company Law. The confusing state of company law is attributable as much to the
scattered state of the legal texts as to inherent shortcomings in the legirslation. Five main types of
companies are recognized in Madagascar. The Societt en nom collectif and the societt en
commandite simple are both governed by the Code de Commerce. The Societt anonyme and
Societe en commandite par actions are governed by a Malagasy law of 1867 as subsequently
amended and the Societe ta responsabilite limitee by a French law of 1925 as subsequently
amended. Other types of companies provided for under the law include the societes civiles,
state-owned enterprises established by statute but operating as societts anonymes, and the so-
called socialist enterprises, which were created during the socialist era. The laws creating the



22
latter have been formally repealed by a 1992 law, which provides for the reconversion of
socialist enterprises as societe's anonymes.
64.    Civil Code. The Civil Code was amended in 1966 by a new law on contracts aimed at
promoting security of transactions and incorporating lessons learned from experience. The new
law seems to have achieved these objectives but does not, however, cover transport and
insurance contracts, sales contracts, and other special forms of contracts that are expected to
flourish in a liberal economic environment. The 1966 law has implicitly repealed all provisions
of the French Civil Code relating to the general principles of contrac,s. All other provisions of
the Civil Code remain unchanged.
65.    Property Law. Title ownership is recognized under Malagasy law, as are other more
traditional forms of land tenure. The attributes of title ownership replicate those of the Civil
Code, but with qualifications designed especially to promote the productive use of land. Recent
statutory and other instruments have severely restricted the rights of foreigners to own
immovable property in Madagascar, making it virtually impossible for them to have access to
immovable property, except by means of long term leases not exceeding 50 years in duration.
66.    Banking Laws. Although banking legislation per se in Madagascar is of relatively recent
origin, other legislative provisions governing banks are somewhat outdated. Some modern
techniques used elsewhere to obtain credit are therefore not readily available. Similarly, in the
absence of specific provisions governing leasing arrangements, there is no systematic recourse to
leasing in banking transactions. The limited availability of land title registration, coupled with
the unreliable and haphazard nature of the Registre du commerce, has had the effect of severely
restricting access to credit based on land title or other forms of security.
The Institutions
67.    Organization of the Courts. Court organization is governed by a series of laws adopted
in the early 1960s, including one governing the establishment of the Supreme Court and the Civil
Procedure and Criminal Procedure codes. Following adoption of the 1992 Constitution and the
realignment of some functions formerly vested in the Supreme Court, some of the legal
provisions may have become obsolete.
68.    The Constitution establishes an independent judiciary as a separate branch of the State
(pouvoir judiciaire) and guarantees the independence of judges and magistrates. The two
institutions responsible for enforcement of independence are the Supreme Court and the
Constitutional, Administrative, and Financial Court (CAFC).
69.    Higher Courts. The CAFC combines the Constitutional Court, Conseil d'Etat, and Cour
des Comptes. The Supreme Court is the highest judicial court of the land. It hears appeals from
the lower courts, but solely on points of law. It also supervises the judicial courts and ensures
that judges, magistrates, and other judicial staff comply with the rules of conduct that govern
their respective branches of the profession.
70.    Lower Courts. The lower level courts consist of two distinct levels of jurisdiction, first
instance and appellate. The Court of Appeal hears appeals against decisions of First Instance
Tribunals.  The First Instance Tribunal consists of  civil, commercial, and social (labor)
chambers. The social chamber hears disputes arising in the course of employment between



23
employers and employees. In civil cases, the judge sits alone; in both commercial and labor
cases, he is normally assisted by assessors. In civil and commercial cases, decisions of the First
Instance Tribunals are normally subject to appeal to the Court of Appeal unless the amounts
involved are relatively small.
Objectives and strategy
71.    Introduction. Given efforts to introduce a more liberal economic environment in
Madagascar, there is growing concern about the unsastifactory state of the legal and judicial
sectors. The government is fully committed to a strategy that seeks not only to modernize the
legal system but also to restore the credibility of the judicial process.
72.    Several studies and seminars on the legal/judicial environment have already taken place,
including a landmark 1990 seminar on commercial and business laws sponsored by the
Academie Malgache. In preparation for the proposed project, a diagnostic study of the legal and
judicial environment was conducted in 1994, followed by a seminar to discuss the findings and
recommendations. The strategy that is described below results almost exclusively from the
findings of those earlier studies and seminars.
73.    Publication of Laws. The govemment has assigined high priority to carrying out an
inventory of existing commercial and business laws, verifying their continued validity, and
thereafter publishing them as a complete set for the benefit of all public and private-sector
employees, judges, magistrates, lawyers and other interested parties.
74.    Legislative Reform Program. In order to streamline the legislative reform process, the
government has decided to establish a Business Law Reform Commission, which will have
primary responsibility for the supervision of the process of revision of business laws. The
commission will consist of business and business law experts, including representatives of both
the private and the public sectors. It will collaborate closely with the Ministry of Justice and
share with it responsibility for the legislative reform process.
75.    The Ministry of Justice will be responsible for day-to-day coordination of the legislative
drafting process. The Ministry's Direction des Reformes has been designated to draft legislation
and act as secretariat to the commission.  The Direction will need to be strengthened
accordingly. In preparing legislation, the Ministry will follow instructions it receives from the
commission and other ministries involved.
76.    Training. Under the present regime, trainee magistrates are required, following their
university education, to complete a two-year course at the Institut d'Etudes Judiciaires (IEJ).
There is a growing perception that the IEJ has failed in the training task, at least as far as
magistrates are concerned. Its course is also open to prospective barristers and legal consultants
and is thus not particularly geared to the training of magistrates. In any event, due to lack of
resources, IEJ has all but ceased to exist.
77.    To ensure proper preparation in this vital area, the government plans to establish an
Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des Greffes (ENMG) for the training and retraining of
judges, magistrates, paralegals, and other court personnel such as court registrars.



24
78.    Commercial Litigation. Many procedural factors contribute to administrative delays.
Some of the factors are relatively straightforward and can be fixed without much difficulty.
Others require further studies and consultation. Among those that cause delays: the fact that any
party may file a suit by simply notifying the tribunal without service of process; exchanges of
pleadings that take place in open court and invariably result in successive postponements;
submission of expert reports; and, in labor and commercial cases, failure to mobilize the number
of assessors required to properly constitute the tribunal.
79.    Two other sets of issues merit discussion. First, the so-called proportional tax on court
decisions is generally regarded as too high. The tax acts in effect as a disincentive for both the
enforcement of judgments and the filing of appeals. Second, the procedures for the execution of
judgments generate concerns, especially about the effectiveness of the procedures and the
regulation, training, and fee scales of court ushers.
80.    Work Environment.  A number of factors, many of them  budget related, have
combined to undermine the effectiveness of judges and magistrates and sap confidence in the
justice system. They range from poor salaries to lack of proper transport facilities, equipment,
and material to inadequate provision of law books and library facilities. The government has
confirmed its intention to provide judges and magistrates with an appropriate work environment
conducive to the proper functioning of the justice system.
81.    A couple of the environment-related factors have wider implications. Lawyers and non
lawyers alike have questioned the degree of independence the courts enjoy. Such questions
culminated in a lengthy dispute between the judiciary and the executive branch after the National
Assembly failed to approve legislation establishing the pouvoir judiciaire.  Although the
outcome of that debate remainis in the hands of the National Assembly, the government has
steadily reaffirmed its commitment to the independence of the judiciary.
82.   In addition, there is growing concern about magistrates' salaries. Present salary levels,
which are linked to civil service pay scales, are grossly inadequate, ranging from about the
equivalent of about US$40/month for junior magistrates to the equivalent of about US$ 100 for a
few of their most senior colleagues. By all accounts, low salaries contribute heavily to the high
level of corruption that allegedly prevails in the judiciary. The government intends to use all
available means to improve the conditions of service of judges and magistrates, and has already
taken the modest step of increasing the housing allowance of magistrates to a more decent level.
Project Components and Issues to be Addressed
83.    Legal and judicial reform. The legal and judicial reform component seeks to support
the government's reform strategy. It consists of the following sub-components:
(i)    publication of legal information;
(ii)   reform of existing commercial and business laws;
(iii)   training;
(iv)   measures to streamline the litigation process in the lower courts;
(v)    measures to strengthen the effectiveness of the Ministry of Justice and the court;
(vi)   a study designed to help establish an adequate arbitration mechanism for
commercial dispute.



25
84.    USAID supported parallel funding will be available (about US$5 million) to finance
short-term consultancy services for law reform activities, training seminars for private
practitioners, overseas scholarships, study tours, including training in legislative drafting
techniques for Ministry of Justice officials, equipment and materials for centers outside the
capital.
85.    Publication of legal information. This sub-component involves three distinct activities:
the publication of laws, the publication of a legal journal, and the rehabilitation of the official
journal, with the last activity to be financed by USAID. The publication of laws is expected to be
completed within the first two years of the project period. Compilation and publication will be
carried out under the overall control of the Direction des Etudes of the Ministry of Justice. For
reasons of efficiency, and in view of the ministry's limited capability, it will be encouraged to sub-
contract major portions of this activity to such groups as the Academie Malgache and local firms of
legal consultants.
86.    Publication of a legal journal, as of laws, will stimulate legal analytical debate and thus
provide a useful basis for legal reform. It will involve the publication of a legal periodical,
including a law review section, a law reporting section, and a section on legislative
developments.
87.    The credit will also finance consulting services for the compilation of laws and
technological tools for establishing and managing a legal information system in the Ministry of
Justice. During negotiations, the government will need to confirm that it will, prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year, submit to IDA its work program for compilation and publication,
and, not later than December 31, 1996, submit to the National Assembly appropriate draft
legislation authorizing publication.
88.    Reform of existing commercial and business laws. The proposed project will-support
the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive program of reform of existing
commercial and business laws. The Direction des Reformes of the Ministry of Justice will
undertake the task. Simultaneously, a Business Law Reform Commission will be established to
supervise the revision of business laws.
89.    In consultation with the Ministry of Justice, the commission will prepare its proposed
work program and establish its priorities for the next five-year period. Among the anticipated
priorities: revision of legislation governing public enterprises and companies, including creation
of new company forms (groupement d'intr&t economique, socidtd unipersonelle, etc.); review of
land-tenure legislation, particularly the provisions relating to foreign ownership; revision of the
Commercial Code, especially the provisions on bankruptcies and company restructuring; review
of legislation governing the registre du commerce; and review of banking legislation,
particularly with regard to provisions for granting credit to business enterprises. The work
program may need to be updated to take account of progress in implementation as well as
revised legislative-reform priorities.
90.    The proposed credit will finance the materials, equipment, and short-term consultancy
services needed to undertake the reform. During negotiations, the government will be required
to confirm that it will (a) provide the Ministry of Justice with budget resources adequate to the
task, (b) not later than Board presentation, establish the Business Law Reform Commission, and
(c) prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, adopt and transmit to IDA for review and



26
comments a legislative reform program prepared by the commission in consultation with the
ministry.
91.    Training. The project includes support to establish the school for judges, magistrates,
and other legal and paralegal personnel. Initial training for prospective magistrates will last at
most six months and will be followed by a period of practical experience in the courts. The
retraining program for sitting magistrates shall consist of short courses lasting no more than a
few weeks each and will be designed to enable the entire complement of magistrates to
participate.
92.    The school will rely largely on local trainers who the government will recruit and pay.
Indeed, the entire plan for the school presupposes government allocations that will cover the
recurrent costs involved. It presupposes also that each year the government will recruit--and pay
the salaries of--between 25 and 30 trainee magistrates and a corresponding number of trainee
court registrars.
93.    For an initial period of about two to three years, the Government will conclude a
twinning agreement with the French Ecole National de la Magistrature et des Greffes (ENMG)
for the launching of the school. Under the twinning agreement, the French ENM will provide
technical assistance both in the preparation of the course curriculum and for the training of local
trainers. A preliminary study for the establishment of the school has been undertaken to
determine details of training needs and other modalities, as well as to prepare the draft statutes of
the proposed school. The study was conducted by the ENM and was completed in March 1996.
94.    The credit will finance the cost of such technical assistance, as well as textbooks and
materials, teaching aids and other equipment required for the establishment of the school.
During negotiations the Government will need to confirm that it will (a) provide adequate annual
budgetary resources to meet the recurrent costs of the school, (b) not later than June 30, 1996,
identify adequate physical facilities to host the proposed school, and (c) recruit adequate
numbers of trainee magistrates and court registrars annually to be admitted to the school.
95.    Measures to streamline the litigation process in the lower courts. The project foresees
a number of measures to enhance the courts' capacity to handle commercial cases. They include:
(a) appointment of judges to supervise the exchange of pleadings and the review of rules
governing automatic postponements; (b) adoption of revised statutes governing court ushers and
modernization of their profession as a whole; (c) review of procedures for the execution of
judgments; (d) introduction of a service-of-process requirement for filing commercial cases; and (e)
revision of the rules governing constitution of the labor and commercial tribunals.
96.    Other procedural constraints raise more complex issues, which in turn call for further
studies or consultations involving other government ministries: e.g., budget implications for the
Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning of the proportional tax on court decisions. The
conditions governing court ushers, as well as their training needs, also require a prior study.
97.    The government will need to confirm  that it will (a) not later than June 30, 1996,
commission a study to investigate delays in the judicial process, and (b) subject to acceptance of
the findings, proceed to implement its recommendations. The credit will finance consultancy
services for the study.



27
98.    Measures to strengthen the effectiveness of the courts. Any strategy seeking to
rehabilitate the justice system and enhance its credibility presupposes that the government will take
appropriate action to protect the independence of judges and magistrates and ensure that they can
exercise their functions solely in accordance with the law; the government is committed to do that.
In addition, the government must pay them a salary commensurate with their status and role in
society and provide them with facilities conducive to the proper exercise of their functions. -
99.    Under the project, the government plans to commission a study to review every aspect of
the remuneration of magistrates, including travel and housing benefits, and to follow up with
recommendations. The study, conducted by a panel of experts representing various sectors, will
give due regard to civil service pay scales and benefits. In the meantime, the government
increased, effective January 1, 1996, the housing allowance of magistrates from its present level
of FMG 15,000 - 25,000 to FMG 500,000, but only for those magistrates who do not enjoy
official housing facilities.
100.  In consultation with the judges and magistrates, the government will press for a reporting
system that requires tribunals to submit such quarterly statistics as the number of cases entered
and disposed of and the number pending for an inordinate length of time (together with the
reasons for such delays). The results will be used to trigger the automatic release of
performance-based incentive payments to the tribun-als who achieve the highest level of
performance. Such payments should motivate tribunals to clear their backlog of outstanding
court cases and thus secure a higher level of performance.
101.   Other measures envisaged under the proposed project include: (a) provision of materials
and equipment for the benefit of judges and magistrates, including provision of revised editions
of existing laws; (b) strengthening of the greffes and the registre du commerce, including
modernization of the services that they provide; and (c) reconstitution and expansion of library
facilities. A preliminary technical study will be required to determine with sufficient precision
the technological needs of the greffes and the registre du commerce, and to make
recommendations accordingly. Prior to disbursement of funds under the credit, the Government
will need to satisfy IDA that it has established adequate rules to control access-to law library
facilities, and has taken all other measures necessary to ensure the safe keeping of books and
periodicals procured under the proposed project.
102.   The credit will finance equipment materials and library facilities, as well as consultancy
services for the proposed requirements study for the greffes and the registre du commerce.
During negotiations the Government will need to confirm that it will (a) not later than June 30,
1996, commission a study on all aspects of the remuneration of magistrates; (b) make adequate
budgetary allocations generally for the proper administration of the courts and, in particular, to
take into account the proposed increase in the amount of the housing allowance, as well as the
proposed performance-based incentive payments.
103.   Arbitration. Arbitration offers a unique opportunity for businesses to have their
commercial disputes resolved outside the courts. Arbitration procedures are provided for under the
Civil Procedure Code but not widely employed. Under the project, the government will take steps
to encourage its broad and systematic use. A study will explore the adoption of more detailed
arbitration rules and procedures and the establishment of arbitration facilities. The credit will
finance consultancy services for the study.



28
Performance Indicators
104.   Performance will be measured as follows:
Objective / Output                              Indicator I Means                    Timing
III. Legal and Judicial Reform
Publish existing laws                            *   Present to parliament legislation concerning    December 1996
the process of the publication of laws
*   Achievement of agreed targets for publication  annually
Law Reform                                       Achievement of agreed targets                  annually
Improve qualifications of magistrates            *   Opening of National School of Magistrates    October 1996
*   Progress in implementation of training    annually
program
Measure output in first instance courts          Introduce quarterly statistics                 I st Quarter 1997
*   Reduce backlog of cases in first instance courts   *   Reduce backlog by 50%/o           - December 1997
   Restore equilibrium between number of        *   Eliminate backlog                          December 2000
incoming and outgoing cases
Project support and costing
105.   The detailed budget proposal below specifies the costs of this component.
Table 6: Legal/Judiciary Reform Component - Estimated Costs*
(US$ '000)
Total Costs
(Incl .contingencies)
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Offce Equipment                                                     626.1
2. Books (lawbooks)                                                    877.3
3. Publication of Legal Tcxts                                          372.4
4. Teaching aides/materials                                            158.9
Subtotal Goods                                                        2,034.70
B. Consultancies
1. Technical Assistance                                              2,132.6
2. Training Expenses (200 magistrates)                                 252.5
Subtotal Consultancies                                                 2,385.1
C. Miscellaneous
1. PPF Refinancing                                                      73.2
Total Costs                                                         4,493.0
*for detailed breakdown,, see Schedule C, Table 7.
C. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
a. Project benefits
106.   The proposed project would assist Madagascar at a critical time in improving the
functioning of Government. It would help to lay the ground for a new approach to the



29
government's role in the economy by strengthening dialogue between the government,
administration and private sector and by contributing to a more effective civil service and
judiciary, both of which are needed for a successful transition to a liberal economy.
In summary, the project will benefit economic and social development by:
*  contributing to a broader based implementation of the adjustment program due to its
internalization within the administration, private sector and civil society and wider
consultation and coordination between ministries on policy measures;
*  improving the environment for savings and investment as a result of increased
private sector confidence due to a more transparent legal framework and a more
efficient functioning of the judiciary;
*  increasing the effectiveness of economic policies due to more timely and accurate
statistical information and a stronger focus on monitoring poverty indicators.
Even in the absence of an adjustment program, the project would be critical to improving public
administration and building-up the capacity to elaborate and implement economic and
institutional reforms. In the past the dialogue pursued. under the EMSAP project has been
instrumental in fostering key reforms and avoiding back-tracking.
b. Project risks
107.  The strategy for change in public sector management and governance may encounter
political resistance from vested interests.  In contributing to improved governance, efforts
involving decentralization and reform of the civil service and judiciary naturally come under
political attack. Experience has shown that countries with unsettled political and fragile
institutional environments present high risk factors with respect to the successful implementation
of capacity building projects. The continuing political uncertainty, including recent changes in
personnel in the Ministries of Finance, Budget and Planning hence add to project risks. Also, the
full benefits of the project may take a long time to materialize and there is a risk that the
commitment to reform may not be sustained long enough to provide lasting results. The risks
involved in the legal and judicial component arise principally from the failure of all parties
concerned to agree on a new definition of judicial independence, as provided under the
Constitution. Now that there is a new government in place, there are hopeful signs that the issue
is about to be resolved.  Unless it can be resolved satisfactorily, there are risks that the
component may not be able to achieve fully its objectives, and may have to be scaled down
accordingly.
108.   To help reduce the above risks, strong efforts have been made to encourage and help the
project constituency to ensure a larger political consensus through close consultations with
various stakeholders, including politicians in the government and the opposition, magistrates and
other members of the legal professions, as well as private sector associations. The government
has shown a capacity and commitment to reform by creating the STA and giving the institution
the means to effectively coordinate the adjustment program, by improving its expenditure
program and by taking unpopular but crucial measures in the macroeconomic field. Also,
project risks have been reduced by assigning responsibility for the overall coordination of the
project to the Prime Minister's office.  The project has been designed flexibly to allow
reassessment of issues and progress in light of long-term objectives as the project progresses.



30
These risks of limited government capacity have been addressed through extensive training and
the creation of a flexible "innovation fund" to finance needs and follow up actions determined
during implementation. Finally, the chances of project success have been enhanced by using an
experienced project management team.
SECTION B: PROJECT COST AND ADMINISTRATION
1. Project Costs and Financing
109.   Project Cost. The project would be implemented over five years. Total project costs,
including price contingencies and taxes, are estimated at US$15.09 million, of which US$9.39
million or 62 percent is estimated as foreign exchange costs and US$0.62 million (4.1 percent) is
estimated as taxes. Base costs are estimated at US$14.10 million equivalent and contingencies
amount to US$0.99 million equivalent (6.5 percent of total costs). Project costs by component
and by category are summarized in tables 2.1 and 2.2 below: detailed cost tables by year and by
component are provided in Schedule C. Unit costs are based on mid-1995 prices.
Table 2.1: Public Management Capacity Building Project
Estimated Project Costs (by component)
(US$ '000) a/
Local  Foreign    Total
1. STA (Technical Secretariat for Adjustment)    876.2    676.8  1.553.0
2. Support to the INSTAT                          660.3    797.1  1,457.4
3. Support to Ministry of Finance, Budget & Planning  831.2  2,389.0  3,220.2
4. Civil Service Reform                           659.3    690.1  1,349.3
5. Decentralization                               600.3  1,132.5  1,732.8
6. Legal/Judiciary Reform                       1,366.0  2,798.5  4,164.5
7. Project Management Unit                        541.2     80.9    622.0
Total Baseline Costs                       5,534.5  8,564.8  14,099.2
Physical Contingencies                            276.7    428.2    705.0
Price Contingencies                              -109.0    393.4    284.4
Total Project Costs                        5,702.1  9,386.4  15,088.6
al Includes US$0.62 million of taxes and dulies.
Table 2.2: Public Management Capacity Building Project
Estimated Project Costs (by category)
(US$ '000)
Local  Foreign     Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods (Vehicles, Office Eqpt,, Books, Public.)  1,002.5  1,942.0   2,944.5
B. Advisory Services b/                          3,889.6  5,714.6   9,604.2
C. Miscellaneous (including PPF Refinancing)      225.9    801.7   1,027.5
Total Investment Costs                             5,117.9  8,458.3  13,576.2
11. Recurrent Costs                                 416.5    106.5      523.0
Total Baseline Costs                         5,534.5  8,564.8  14,099.2
Physical Contingencies                            276.7    428.2      705.0
Price Contingencies                               -109.0    393.4     284.4
Total Project Costs                          5,702.1  9,386.4  15,088.6
b/Includes Technical Assistance, Training, Studies, Surveys, Workshops, and Public
Information Campaign.



31
110.   Financing. The proposed IDA Credit of US$13.83 million equivalent would finance:
100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of consulting services and training abroad; and
75% of local costs for remaining categories (excluding taxes). The resulting financing share
between IDA and the Republic of Madagascar would be 92 percent and 8 percent (4.1 percent
net of taxes), respectively. The financing plan, which includes taxes and duties, is presented in
Table 2.3.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local                   Foreign                   Total
Borrower a/                       1.26                      0                       1.26
IDA Credit                        4.45                     9.39                     13.83
TOTAL                             5.71                     9.39                     15.09
al Government 's share of US$1.26 equivalent includes US$0.62 in taxes and duties.
II. Procurement
111.   The main project elements, their estimated costs and methods of procuremfient are
summarized in Table 2.4. The proposed timetable for the procurement of major goods and
services is included in Schedule D.
Table 2.4 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
USS '000 equivalent
Procurement Methods
International      National
Competitive    Competitive
Bidding        Bidding       Other        Total
Vehicles/Office Eqpt.                           1.383.3          321.9           -       1,705.2
(1,134.$)       (264.4)                 (1,399.3)
Books/Publications                                   -           372.4     1,066.3       1,438.7
-        (279.3)      (916.4)    (1,195.7)
Consultant Services/Studies                          -               -     7,408.7       7,408.7
(7,258.9)    (7,258.9)
Training/Workshops                                   -               -     2,163.0       2,163.0
(1,925.9))    (1,925.9)
Public Infonnation Canpaign/Surveys                  -               -       752.2        752.2
(564.2)     (564.2)
PPF Refinancing                                      -               -      1,016.0      1,016.0
(802.9)     (802.9)
Operations (PMU, Recurrent costs)                    -            83.3       521.3        604.6
(73.2)    (447.0)       (520.2)
Total                                         1,383.3          777.6    12,927.6      15,088.6
(1,134.8)       (617.0)   (12,080.2)    (13,832.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amountsfinanced by IDA.



32
Employment of Consultants and Training
112.  In order to ensure the satisfactory execution of the project, the Borrower will need to
agree during negotiations that qualifications, experience, and termns and conditions of
employment of consultants shall be satisfactory to IDA. Such consultants will be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency,
published by the Bank Group in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). The model letter-of
invitation issued by the Bank Group shall be used. For complex, time-based or lump sum
assignments, the Borrower will employ such consultants under contracts, using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank Group, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by IDA. Where no relevant standard-eontract documents have been issued by
the Bank Group, the Borrower will use other forms agreed with IDA prior to launching the
invitation.
113.  Prior Review Arrangements. Consultant contracts for individuals up to US$50,000 per
contract and for firms up to US$100,000 per contract will be subjected to post review, except for
TORs, sole source contracts and assignment of a critical nature. All consultant contracts above
these thresholds would be subjected to prior review.
114.  Training programs have been summarized where applicable under each component.
As part of annual work programs, each component coordinator would submit for IDA review and
approval annual training and study tour programs. From the second year the program would
include an evaluation of the previous year's training program. Expenses for the workshops
envisaged in the Civil Service component would be reimbursable upon receipt of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs).
Procurement of Goods
115.  Goods financed under the project include vehicles and spare parts, office equipment, law
books, demonstration equipment and teaching tools. Most of these goods would be grouped into
packages costing more than US$100,000 equivalent and procured through ICB procedures, in
accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995). Contracts for goods procured under ICB would total US$1.13 million. Where
ICB procedures are used, a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods would be given to domestic
manufacturers in accordance with IDA guidelines. The following measures shall be agreed
during negotiations:
(i)  the double envelope system of bid opening will not be used. All bids shall be
opened in public. Bid amounts, names of bidders, presence/absence of bid
guarantees, discounts and qualifications shall be announced;
(ii) standard bidding documents published by the Bank shall be used for all ICB.
116.  Contracts for some office equipment, as well as for publication of legal texts, below
US$100,000 each, required over a period of time and available locally at competitive prices, for
which foreign firms would not be interested, not exceeding US$543,700 in aggregate, would be
procured by NCB, provided that: (i) bids are opened in public; (ii) contracts are awarded to the



33
lowest evaluated responsive bidder; (iii) a minimum of 30 days is given between availability of
the bid document and the bid submission deadline; (iv) a minimum of 3 bids are received; and
(v) foreign bidders are allowed to participate. Goods contracts, including technical manuals and
teaching aides/materials, each estimated at US$30,000 or less and not exceeding US$0.15
million in aggregate would be procured by National (US$20,000) or International (US$55,000)
Shopping (provided that a minimum of 3 quotations is requested from eligible suppliers), and by
Direct Contracting (US$71,000).  Because of their specialized nature and availability from
single source, specific law books will be acquired on a sole source basis from the publisher or
his agent for a total amount of US$770,000. Procurement would be highly concentrated in the
first and second years of the project.
117.  Prior Review Arrangements. All goods contraets. above US$50,000 will be subjected
to prior review in accordance with para. 2 of Appendix I of the Bank Guidelines. Goods
contracts below this threshold will be subjected to post review in accordance with para. 4 of
Appendix I of the Bank Guidelines.
118.  Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower to IDA;
(b) every six months the Borrower will submit comprehensive reports to IDA
indicating:
(i)  updated cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for price contingencies;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
(iv) standard procurement times for various procurement steps up to
contract signing would be agreed during negotiations; in particular all
contracts must be signed within the original validity periods.
III. Disbursements
119.  The IDA Credit is expected to be effective by December 1996 and the project will be
executed over the following five years as Government wishes to proceed rapidly with its public
sector reform program and aims to complete activities within that period. The success to-date in
implementing the overall economic reform program and the already advanced state of a number
of the proposed project actions indicate that this can be accomplished. Also, it is expected that
the major part (about 85%) of project implementation (acquisition of materials, workshops,
studies, surveys) will be concentrated in the first three years. Accordingly, while the average
disbursement profile for such operations in the Africa Region is seven years, the credit is
forecast to be implemented over five years and expected to be closed on June 30, 2001.



34
Table 2.5: Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ thousand)
FY97            FY98           FY99       FY00           FY01
Annual                       5,750            4,280          1,950       1,270          582
Cumulative                   5,750           10,030         11,980      13,250        13,832
Percentage                      42              73             87          96           100
Table 2.6: Disbursements of IDA Credit
(US$ '000)
Category                                      Amount   Percent of Foreign     Percent of Local
Expenditures Funded  Expenditures Funded
by IDA              by IDA
...............I.................................................................. .   ................................................................................... .....................................................................................................
I.Vehicles & Office Equipment.                 1,399.3         100                  75
2.Books & Publications                         1,195.7         100                  75
3.Consultants/Studies                          7,258.9         100                  100
4.Training/Workshops                           1,925.9         100                  75
5.Public Info. Campaign/Surveys                 564.2          n/a                  75
6.PPF Refinancing                               967.9          100                  75
7.Operating Costs (PMU, Recurrent)              520.2          100                  75
Total Credit                                  13,832.0
120.   Disbursements will be in accordance with procedures outlined in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook. The Borrower possesses the ability to process and maintain SOE
documentation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Appropriate accounting and control
systems are in place. The project coordination unit would claim reimbursement on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for: (i) goods and equipment contracts less than
US$100,000; (ii) contracts with consulting firms valued at less than US$100,000; (iii) contracts
with individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 (including amendments); and (iv)
operating costs, training, and the workshops envisaged in the Civil Service component of the
project.
121.   Special Account and Project Accounts. To ensure that funds for the project are readily
available and to facilitate disbursements, a special account will be opened in US dollars in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
US$500,000. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$250,000 upon credit effectiveness and
once SDR 2 million is disbursed, the balance of the authorized allocation (US$250,000) would
be advanced to the special account. Replenishment of the Special Account would be made on
the basis of monthly applications, supported by full documentation or SOEs, as required.
Initially, all expenditures of less than $US50,000 would be financed directly from the special
account and IDA would not accept direct payment or special commitment applications below
this limit. Once the full initial allocation is advanced, this threshold would rise to US$ 100,000.
122.   The Government will open in a Bank a project account to cover its counterpart
contribution to the project. That account will be replenished quarterly. During negotiations, it
will be agreed that the project account will be located in a financial institution acceptable to IDA
and that adequate provision for local costs will be included in the annual operating budgets of the
Government for the Project Coordination Unit, for all expenditures for which the Borrower is



35
responsible. An initial deposit (in local currency) by the Government equivalent to US$100,000
in the project account will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
IV. Accounting and Auditing
123.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will establish and maintain, to the satisfaction of
IDA, separate accounts and records to be used exclusively for the project. The accounts will be
maintained in accordance with sound and internationally recognized accounting principles and
practices. The PIU will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial
position of the project. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project accounts
in accordance with internationally acceptable auditing principles and in such detail as IDA may
request. Establishment of a financial management/accounting system for the project and the
selection of the auditors of the project will be conditions of effectiveness. The audits would be
undertaken quarterly and annually, on the basis of a three-year contract, with the annual report
submitted to IDA no later than three months after the close of the year. In addition, the special
account and all disbursements made on the basis of SOEs would be audited annually and the
audit reports submitted three months after the end of each audit period.
SECTION C: IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
1. Organization and Management
124.  The Office of the Prime Minister would assume overall coordinating responsibility for
the project (see organizational chart below).  A Project Director who has already been
successfully in charge of EMSAP coordination has been appointed to handle day-to-day
coordination matters, including: the development of an adequate accounting system for project
implementation, coordination of procurement and disbursement activities for the various
executing agencies, coordination of annual activity reports and work plans, as well as arranging
for annual audits of project accounts.
125.  Management and implementation of each component would be the responsibility of the
concerned ministries and entities, as follows: Support to the economic reform and management
component would be managed by the newly created Steering Committee in charge of the reform
program and the National Statistical Institute; public resource management and planning reform
would be managed by the Ministry of Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning, as appropriate;
the civil service component would be managed by the Ministry of Civil Service; the
decentralization component would be managed by the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization;
and the legal and judicial reform component would be managed by the Ministry of Justice. The
legal and judicial component will not create any new entity or unit. It will be implemented by
existing personnel in the Ministry of Justice and the courts. The Direction des Etudes and the
Direction des Reformes have been designated as coordinators on behalf of the ministry. They
will be assisted by a steering committee of representatives from the judiciary, legal profession,
teaching staff of the university and the Academie Malgache, and other interested parties. Project
Component Managers have been appointed within each Ministry to manage the implementation
of each major component or sub-component.
126.  A Project Implementation Plan will be prepared to help the project coordinator
implement and monitor the project. The plan would include all project procedures agreed with



36
IDA, standard bidding documents for consultants, the list of consulting services to be procured
and the type of procurement, detailed project costs, the terms of reference of the studies and
support services to be carried out, and standard forms for progress reports. An outline of the
Project Implementation Plan will be agreed during negotiations, and the plan should be
completed as a condition of credit effectiveness.
II. Implementation Schedule
127.  The implementation schedule of the project (Schedule B) will be agreed during
negotiations. It was prepared on the assumption that the credit would become effective in
December 1996 and the project implemented over a five-year period. The credit is expected to
be closed in June 2001.
III. Reporting and Monitoring
128.  The content and timing of progress reports will be agreed during negotiations. Progress
reports would be prepared quarterly and in advance of each Bank supervision mission. The
reports would review progress on financial execution and studies. The Borrower would submit
an Implementation Completion Report to IDA no later than six months after the closing date of
the credit.
IV. Supervision Plan
129.  The six components included in the project will require intensive supervision, estimated
at about 24 staffweeks (sw) per year during the first two years and about 20 sw/year thereafter.
As a number of departments are involved in the supervision and implementation process
(technical department, legal department and country department), an average of 7 sw per year
are expected to be spent by Bank staff at headquarters, with the rest consisting of field missions
and resident mission input. Resident mission staff would be involved in project supervision
where possible to ensure continuity and quick response to requests from project and sub-
component managers. Procurement documents, terms of reference and reports (progress, final,
studies, financial statements) would be reviewed at Bank headquarters. A supervision plan is
included in Annex B.
V. Mid-term Review
130.  Not later than December 31, 1998, the project coordinator should prepare and hold a
mid-term review of the project execution. The review would be organized in collaboration with
the Ministry of Economy and Planning in its overall coordinating capacity, the executing
agencies, and IDA's supervision mission. The review process would include progress in meeting
project objectives, overall project performance against established and agreed key performance
indicators, and performance of consultants under the Project. The mid-term review would
provide the opportunity for IDA to assess the Government's continued commitment to the
project's objectives. During negotiations, an agreement will be reached with the Borrower with
regard to the carrying-out of a mid-term review and to its objectives.



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule A
Timing of Monitoring Indicators






REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Timing of Monitoring Indicators
COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE STA
Sub-component: Monitoring of the SAP
PRINPAL ACTWITIES                                               EXPECTED IMPACT                                          TIMETABLE
Under the EMSAP project
A. Reorganization of the Steering Committee's   *   Strengthening of coordination among government actions in the area of  Started April 1995
technical activities within the context of SAP  economic and social development
negotiation, management and monitoring
*   Strengthening of the role of COREMEF (Comite des Reformes              Ongoing
Macroeconomiques et Sectorielles)
*   Strengthening of the role of CORES (Comite des R6formes Sectorielles),
which includes the Project Monitoring Committee (CSP), and strengthen its  Ongoing
work relations with the technical ministries
*   Creation of the CODRA (Comite pour la Dimension Regionale de
I'Ajustement)
August 1996
B. Coordination, on behalf of the Steering      *  Coordination of 1997-1999 PFP preparation                               Ongoing
Committee, of preparation of the technical
files within the framework of SAP          *   Strengthening of the consistency of the various government actions involved
negotiations with the Bretton Woods            in the structural adjustment process
institutions and other donors
C. Permnanent monitoring of economic and        *   Analysis and interpretation of the macroeconomic situation, and publication  Ongoing
financial indicators in close consultation with  of a monthly report (on the 15th of the month) including a table of principal
the Departments of Finance and Budget and      indicators
the Central Bank
*   Upgrade of the collection of basic data and current information including
statistical data
*   Strengthening of economic forecasting techniques in connection with the
newly created "Secrdtariat Permanent a la Prevision Macrodconomique".
I



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE STA
Sub-component: Monitoring of the SAP
.. I...  NCIPAL. ......... AC..V.TIES                         . .      XPEC      D         CT.                                  T 'M      B L
D. Redefinition of sector policies and     *   Identification of the strengths and weaknesses of each sector and subsector, carrying out   Ongoing
strategies and permanent monitoring of    sectoral surveys to form a basis for government policy and strategies, taking into account
sectoral measures adopted in relation to  the objective of private sector development
the adjustment process, in close
consultation with the technical ministries   *   Definition of sectoral frameworks, to facilitate project identification, design and
establishment of programs and projects to promote sector and subsector development
*Develop cross-border initiative
Under the Proposed Project
A. Permanent monitoring of social          *   Improving the impact of budgetary policy and public expenditure programs       Ongoing
INdicATor inA cloSeA coslatind  wiDPth  *   Strengthening of the activities of the Social Development Program (PDS) (continuation
determine a list of social indicators to   o h  oshl  osmto  uvy
help monitor the impact of the structural
adjustment (incidence of adjustment   *   Strengthening of poverty alleviation mechanisms
measures)
B. Analysis of draft legislative texts     *   Verification of the consistency and appropriateness of proposed legislative texts  Ongoing
coneerning adjustment measures, and
formulation of any counter-proposals
2



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE STA
Sub-component: Communications Support
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES                                           EXPECTED IMPACT                                           TIMETABLE
C. Hiring of two local communications          *   Monitoring of the communications plan and strategies, to be decided during  Completed in December 1995
consultants                                    the November 1995 seminar
D. Organization of a national communications    *   Putting effective communications plan and strategies within the framework of   Completed in November 1995
seminar within the context of structural       SAP preparation and implementation, with definition of a monitoring system
adjustment, with the assistance of an          at all levels
intemational communications consultant hired
by USAID                                   *   Sensitization of the population at large, the economic operators, and the
institutions on the nature, objectives and benefits of the SAP         une 1996-December 1997
*   Enabling various actors within civil society to intemalize the structural
adjustment process, thereby enhancing their capacity to participate "en  Permanent activities
masse" in the debates and arguments conceming the Govemment's economic
and social policy
E. Seminars / information workshops for        *   Sensitize govemment employees to the ins and outs of the adjustment process   I st half year 1997
govemment workers at both the central and      and explain to them what is expected of them in their undisputed role as
decentralized levels, to make them aware of    members of civil society
the measures being taken under the SAP and
the impacts of those measures
F. Develop the production of small publications  *   Developing of additional information supports within the adjustment context    Starting July 1996 periodically
(booklets, brochures, etc.) for widespread
distribution to the population             *   Strengthening of media impact in the most remote geographic areas
3



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE STA
Sub-component: Communications Support
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITES                            ii . EXPECTED IMACT:                                                      TIMETABLE
i ..:    .:::::::   ....     ......... .                      ... i:  .  ..... :::  .... :.....:.i:::.::: ::::,           : :: :
G. Establishment of an efficient information    *   Production of economic information and statistical data to be used as  Starting July 1996
network at the central and decentralized local  benchmarks by the Government, and the Steering Committee
government levels
H. Creation and strengthening of a computerized  *   Establishment of a continual flow of information among senior officials of  Starting July 1996
data bank                                      the ministries and other government agencies
1. Association of the private sector with SAP   *   Coordination of a platform for administration/private sector exchange and a  Ongoing
preparation and management; strengthening      Comite de Reflexion on competitiveness (CRC)
of the economic growth strategy through
private sector development
J. Strengthening and development of the         *   Systematic and timely access to the media for economic and financial   Ongoing
economic and financial information system      information
for the national and international media
*  Greater transparency in economic management
K. Training of reporters at different levels and in  *  Better trained economic and financial reporters                   Starting June 1996
different areas, as an extension of the program
carried out with considerable success by   *   Incentives for reporters to specialize in economic and financial matters
USAID in 1994 and 1995
*   Increased capacity of the media to handle economic and financial issues, both
domestic and international
L. Introduction of a computerized system for the    *   Develop and improve the capacity to process the flow of information on  2nd semester 1996
media generating economic and financial        economic and financial matters
information
4



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS
PRINCIPAL ACTVITIES                                                    EXPECTED IMACT                                  TIMETABLE
1. National accounts
A.  Overhaul of the basis and methodology of the national accounting system
A-1 Diagnostic study and work plan
A-2 Setting up of a team of national accounts and forecasters                                                                           July 1996
A-3 Overhaul of nomenclatures                                                                                                           July 1996
A-4 Processing and analysis of survey data                                                                                              August 1996
* Population survey
* Informal sector
* Household survey
* industrial sector
* International comparator program
A-5 Gathering of basis data for the national accounts                                                                                   June 1997
A-6 Final Accounts                                                              1993-94 semi-final accounts
1993-94 final accounts                                  3rd quarter 1997
1995 semi-final accounts                                4th quarter 1997
1996, 1997 and 1998 forecasts                           4th quarter 1997
1995 final accounts                                     I st quarter 1998
5



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS
II. Household welfare monitoring and analysis system (HWMAS)
B-i Processing, analysis and publication of results of comprehensive EPM  *   Database on household living conditions in     February 1995
Madagascar and observation of development of the
poverty profile
*   Publication of the results of the first household
survey                                         December 1995 (done)
B-2 First priority survey (Topic: Household consumption)                 *   Concept, planning and design                    2nd half-year 1996
*   Recruitment, training, preparation             I st quarter 1997
*   Data processing, fluid operation, controls     2nd quarter 1997
* Data editing, tables
*   Analysis, publication, dissemination, establishing  3rd quarter 1997
database                                       4th quarter 1997
* Workshop
4th quarter 1997
B-3 Second priority survey (Topic: The social sector, comprising employment,  *   Concept, planning and design               1st quarter 1998
education and health)                                               *   Recruitment, training preparation               2nd/ 3rd quarter 1998
*   Data processing, fluid operation, controls     4th quarter 1998 +
*   Data editing, tables                           Ist quarter 1999
*   Analysis, publication, dissemination,          2nd quarter 1999
*   Establishing database                          3rd quarter 1999
*   Workshop                                       3rd quarter 1999
4th quarter 1999
III. Conjunctural survey
C-I  First survey                                                        *   Publication and dissemination                   July 1996
C-2  Second survey                                                       *   Publication, dissemination and workshop         October 1996
*   Publication and dissemination
C-3  Third surveyDembr19
December 1996
C4  Training of conjfinctural unit staff                                                                                     Continued throughout the
project
1997-2001
C-5  Survey subsequently continued throughout the project
6



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE DEPARTMENTS OF FINANCE, BUDGET, PLANNING AND ECONOMY
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES                                               EXPECTED IMPACT                                               TIMETABLE
A. Economic forecasting and analysis
techniques
A-I Macroeconomic framework                        Framework to be established for SAP negotiations                               Before 31st August 96
A-2 Economic modelization                          Economic policies options' analysis                                            November 1996
B. Treasury                                                                                                                       Sept. 1996 - June 1997
B-i Diagnostic survey                              Critical analysis of the organization:
*   organization of central government offices and accounting items
*  interaction among offices
*  tasks and functions
*  human and material resources
Evaluation of procedures:
*  execution and monitoring of public expenditure
*  resource recovery                                                           January 1997
*  accounting
*  indicator table
Processing of results: detection of the system's strengths and weaknesses
Proposed reform:
B-2 Provisional report                             *  organization                                                                March 1997
*  accounting procedures
*  legislative and regulatory texts
*  logistical arrangements
B-3  Final report                                  *   General document containing the results of the diagnostic survey
*   Document containing recommendations and proposals for reforms
7



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE, BUDGET AND PLANNING
PRINCIPMALACTIVITIES                                      EXPECTED IMPACT                                                          TIMETABLE
C.      Public debt management
C-l     Preliminary study                        Implementation:                                                              2nd quarter 1997
* definition of procedures
* staff training
* assistance with startup
C-2     Preparation of reform                                                                                                 End 1997
D. Budgetary reform
D-lI Indicator table for use in                  Improved expenditure control                                                 January 1997
monitoring budget execution
D-2 Programming of operating                     More realistic budget, less difficult to execute                             As of 1997 budget preparation
expenditure
*  finalizing of legislative texts                                          As of January 1997
*  promotion of a more active budget negotiation process                    As of January 1997
* Structural improvements
June 1997
D-3 Reorganization of the Budget                 Tighter regulations and new organizational chart
office
As of 1997 budget
D-4 Expanded coverage of budgetary               Effecting expenditure savings and subjecting autonomous agencies
control to the autonomous                   ("etablissements publics", "budgets annexes" and "comptes de commerce") to
agencies of the governmecnt                 budgetary discipline
8



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE, BUDGET, PLANNtNG AND ECONOMY
Finance and Budget Component
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES                                                EXPECTED IMPACT                                             TIMETABLE
E.   Payroll Management
E-l   Preliminary study                            *  Review of existing situation                                                August - October 1996
*   Proposal of new general organization, clearly defining the respective roles of    (Intervention)
the units concemed
*  Proposal for more appropriate computer environment                          November - December 1996
(Validation)
E-2  Purchase of computer                          *   Formal administrative procedures (commission des marches publics, etc ...)  January- March 1997
equipment                                    *   Equipment delivery
April - June 1997
Implementation of the program
E-3  Develop the new software:                     *  Simplifications of the circuits                                             *   For procedures not linked
* analysis                                    *  Clarification of the role of each actor                                         to the computerized
* development                                 *   Training of correspondents in the sectoral ministries and the Ministry of Civil  system, as of July to
* tests and acceptance                            Service                                                                        December 1997.
* implementation and training                                                                                                *   For those dependent on
the computerized systems
(during 1997 and 1998)
9



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THIE MINISTRY OF FINANCE, BUDGET, PLANNING AND ECONOMY
Planning and Economy Component
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES                                       EXPECTED IMPACT                                             TIMETABLE
F. Planning and Economy
F-i Organizational audit of                    Critical analysis of the organization:                           September - October 1996
Planning and Economy                      *   Interaction among office
Departments                                *   Task and functions
*   Human and material resources
*   Reorganization of technical services
F-2 Creation of Fund for Project               *   Enhanced awareness of the impact of PIP projects             June 1996
Studies (FEP)                              *   More rigorous selection of new projects
*   Evaluation of ongoing or completed projects at a national and
regional level
F-3. Public sector management                  *   Formulation of policies adopted in the main economic sectors  1997: Agriculture, Education, Health, Public
Works, Intemal Security
1997/98: Other main sectors
F-3.1 Strengthening of sectoral                *  Definition of main objectives                                 As of 1997
policies and strategies                  *  Establishment of priorities
*  Training of staff in technical ministries
*   Organization of seminars to exploit existing documentation and
materials prepared under the project
F-3.2 Support to the technical
ministries' programming                 *   Greater consistency among policies adopted and financial      1997: Agriculture, Education, Health, Public
units in implementing the PIP                decisions                                                    Works, Intemal Security
and PEPs                                *   Submission by the ministries of more consistent, more realistic,
and better supported requests for financing
*   Strengthening of linkages between PIP decisions and operating  1997/98: Other main ministries
budget decisions
*   Better trained staff in technical ministries' programming units
10



COMPONENT: SUPPORT TO THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE, BUDGET, PLANNING AND ECONOMY
Planning and Economy Component
PRINCIPAL ACIVITIES                                       EXPECTED IMPACT                                              TIMETABLE
F4  Support the DGP in                         *  Redefinition of PEP rules and methods                         Septembcr 1996 - June 1998
implementing the PIP and                  *   Provision of overall supervision of PIP operation            Permanent activity
PEPs                                      *  Consolidation of computer tools                               Permanent activity
*  Training of DGP staff                                         As of October 1996
*   Strengthening of DGP in its role as negotiator               1997
F-5 Support to the CSP (Comite de              *   Purchase of computer equipment                               October 1996
Suivi des Projets)
*   Purchase of a photocopy machine                              October 1996
*   Training of agents (Project evaluation, PIP projects' monitoring,   As of October 1996
etc...)
F-6 Support to Economic                        Regular economical and financial publications with, as a main topic,    As of 1997
Information (DEE + DCEE +                 the measure of the public and private investment's impact on national
DSEPRE)                                   economy
11



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPONENT: CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
M;i VT AAJOR ACIV ITES000    .     :    00 i07        ;:     AN9TICIPATED  IMPACT; ;                  ::  :i                  0   TIMETABLE l :0 
A. Diagnostic studies of the four key ministries
A-l Diagnostic study of the
Education Ministry                      *Assessment of the situation and proposals for reorganization and improvement in the    December 1996
A-2  Diagnostic study of the Health           context of decentralization and deconcentration
Ministry
A-3  Diagnostic study of the Public          *Assessment of the situation and proposals for redeployment in the context of  As of 1997
Works Ministry                          decentralization and deconcentration
A-4I Diagnostic study of the
Agriculture Ministry                                                                                                  _______________
B.  Workshops on modernization                *  Preparation of the diagnostic study for discussion                        Sept.- December 1996
of the Government
B-I. Preparatory phase                       Handling of technical aspects of the workshops:JueSpmbr19
preparation of the document             *  Governance surveyJueSpmbr19
* Training of workshop leaders
logistical organization                 *  Participatory process of analyzing problems and proposing solutions
training of workshop leaders
* Definition of a work program for sectoral and regional
B-2. Workshops                                  workshops with terms of reference
I national workshop                    *       Debate and proposals for the largest ministerial departments          Febr.ary 1997
and government institutions
4 sectoral workshops                    *  Deban- of problem areas and proposals for each region                      March 1997
formnulation regional proposals
6 regional workshops                    * National synthesis of the proposals from the regional and                   April 1997
sectoral workshops Formulation of an action plan for civil
1 national workshop                       service reform                                                             June 1997
* Financing of proposals fVr innovative actions resulting from
the action plans: studiesi'training, reorganization of
administrative units                                                       May 1997- June 2001
12



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPONENT: DECENTRALIZATION
MAJORACTIVITIES                                                 ANTICIPATED IMPACT                                                  TIMETABLE
Studies on implementation of                                                                                                         October 1995-April 1997
decentralization
1. A  Analysis of financial budgetary            Description of links between central govemment and local authorities and identification   March - June 1996
and organizational implications            of ways to improve service delivery
of decentralization to
communes
1. B Regional and departmental
decentralization                                                                                                               September - December 1996
L.C  Proposal for deconcentration                                                                                                    January 1997
2.  Study on mechanisms and                      Expanded accountability of target population                                        September-December 1996
methods allowing participation
by target population, civil
society and NGOs
3. Study on framework for                        Coordination of budgeting and accounting standards                                  January-August 1997
decentralization budgeting and
accounting
4. Study on management of                        Quest for greatest possible effectiveness of local govemment                        Sept. 1997-April 1998
personnel in decentralized
govemments
5. Study on present and future                   Adjustment of systems for resources allocation between central govemment            March-June 1998
impact of decentralization on tax             and local authorities
revenues
13



COMPONENT: DECENTRALIZATION
6. Study on improvement of                     More efficient public services                                                    May-August 1998
management of local services
7. Evaluation                                  Assessment of the result - proposals for further action                           September-November 1998
Training
A. Majors and State Representatives            Help the executives understand the implication of decentralization                June-August 1996
B. High Level Staff (selected                  Identify and train trainers                                                       January 1997
communes)
C. Secretary Generals                          Strengthen city management                                                        February 199
D. Financial Directors                         Strengthen budgetary management                                                   March - April 1997
Pilot Operations
A. Tax Census                                  Improve tax administration in the selected cities                                 June 1996 -Nov. 1997
B. Computerization of City Management          Impose budgetary payroll, and overall management in the selected cities           June 1996 - April 1997
14



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPONENT: REFORM OF THE LEGAL AND JUDICIAL FRAMEWORK
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                                                 ANTICIPATED IMPACT                                                   TIMETABLE
General framework                                 Establishment of a Steering Committee to monitor the component                       March 1996 (done)
Publication of Laws                               * Transmission to IDA of work program for compilation                                September 1996 (and yearly)
and publication of laws
* Presentation to National Assembly of draft enabling legislation                    December 1996
to govern the process of publication of laws
Law Reform                                        *  Establishment of business Law Reform commission                                   September 1996
*  Transmission to IDA of work program for reform of                                 September 1996 and yearly)
business laws
Training                                          * Launching of preliminary study for establishment of a                              November 1995 (done)
National School for Magistrates (ENMG)
* Identification of appropriate premises for the School (ENMG)                       June 1996
* Official opening of the School (ENMG)
October 1996
15



COMPONENT: REFORM OF THE LEGAL AND JUDICIAL FRAMEWORK
..AJOR    AC                   TS A. . .  ..  .                          iNTICI PATED   M ACT                                          ....... TIMETABLE . 
Review of Judicial Procedures                   Launching of technical study to identify the causes of delay in the judicial       June 1996
process
Review of Working Conditions of Members of      Launching of Study on all aspects of remuneration ofjudges                         June 1996
Judiciary                                       Increase in housing allowance                                                      January 1996 (done)
Introduction of performance bonus for the benefit of the most productive          June 1996
courts
Preliminary study of technological requirements of courts officials and the       June 1996
Commercial Register
Arbitration Law Reform                          Study in view of the introduction of appropriate facilities arbitration            June 1997
16



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule B
Project Implementation Plan






-        ----- -  - -  -------
Activity                                   Cost        IDA           Procurement    Years
US$'OOO     financing     Method
Training
*  Overseas training (STA component)            281.1         281.1                    1997-2000
(for 3 economists)                                                                (I mth/yr)
*  Local training (STA component)                94.2          69.2                    1997-2000
(I mth/yr)
*  Overseas training for statisticians          214.1         214.1                    1996-2000
(INSTAT component)                                                                 (total 9 mths)
*  Local training (INSTAT)                       54.4          40.8        SS          1996-2000
*  Seminars on National Accounts                  7.3           5.5         SS        1997
*  Overseas training - Min. of Plan (Comit6      74.4          74.4                    1996-2000
de Suivi)                                                                         (tot. 7.5mths)
*  Overseas trg. (PIPPEP)                        111.8        111.8                    1996-1999
(tot. 6 mths)
*  Training Min.Fin. (Budgetary Reform)         533.0         533.0                    1997-1998
*  Training for workshop facilitators,            10.0          7.5         SS         1996
organizers, etc. (Civil Service Workshops)
*  Seminars for trainers (Decentralization)      60.9          44.7         SS         1997
*  Workshops for cadres (Decentralization)      213.2         159.1                    1997
*  Training expenses for 200 magistrates at     252.5         189.4         SS         1996-1997
the School of Magistrates (transport, per
diem, etc.)
*  Training/bi-annual meetings for Projet          3.2          3.2                    1996-2000
Management Unit
Studies
*   Studies - STA component                      175.0        175.0         SL         1997-2000
*  Project Study Fund - Min. Plan              1,039.4 8      948   SSL                1996-2000
. Studies on                                     136.8        136.8        SL          1996-1997
Health/Education/Agriculture/Public
Works (Civil Serv. component)
Surveys (publication/analysis/dissemination)
*  Business Cycle Survey                          51.8         38.8         SS         1996-2000
*  National Accts.                                 5. I         5. I        SS         1997
*  Household Survey                               81.7          81.7        SS         1997-2000
Pilot Operations
*  Fiscal census (Decentraliz.component)        207.3         155.5  SL                1997-1998
*  Innovation Fund (Civil Service Ref.)          948.8        948.8  SL                1997-2000



Activity                                  Cost        IDA           Procurement    Years
US$'000    financing     Method
5. Support to the Decentralization process
*  Foreign cons.svces. for regional/dept' 1     86.1          86.1        SL        1997 (4mm)
decentralization
*  Local cons.svces for above studies           18.3          17.4        SL        1997(9mm)
*  Foreign cons.svces. for deconcentration/     86.1          86.1        SL        1997 (4mm)
decentralization
*  Local cons.svces. for above study             18.3         17.4        SL        1997(9mm)
*  Foreign cons.svces. for pop.participation    45.2          45.2        SL        1997 (2mm)
*  Local cons.svces. for above study             12.2         11.6        SL        1997(6mm)
*  Foreign cons.svces. for budgetary            86.1          86.1        SL        1997 (4mm)
nomenclature
*  Local cons.svces. for above study            16.2          15.4        SL        1997 (8mm)
*  Foreign cons. for human resource mgmt.       86.6          86.6        SL        1997 (4mm)
*  Local cons. for above study                   16.2         15.4        SL         1997(8mm)
*  Foreign cons.for decentr.of tax revenues     65.0          65.0        SL        1997 (3 mm)
*  Local cons. for above study                  18.3          17.4        SL         1997 (12mm)
*  Foreign cons.for local admin.study           65.0          65.0        SL        1997 (3mm)
*  Local cons. for above study                  12.2          11.6        SL        1997 (6 mm)
*  Foreign cons. for synthesis/evaluation       88.8          88.8        SL        1998 (4mm)
  Local cons. for above study                  12.3          11.7        SL        1998 (8mm)
*  Office technology expert (support for six   195.5         195.5        SL        1997-1998
pilot sites)
6. Support to Civil Service Reform
.  Workshop Coordinator (local cons.)            12.1         11.5        SL        1996(1 mm)
1998(l 1 mm)
7. Support to Legal/Judicial Reform
  Local cons. svces. for inventory/revision   181.3         172.2        SL        1996(12m)
of law texts                                                                     1997(120m)
*  Local cons. for Etude d'arbitrage             9.1           8.6        SL        1997 (12mm)
.  Long-term foreign cons.svces. to teach in  1,227.6      1,227.6        SL         1997 (24mm)
proposed School of Magistrates                                                   1997 (20mm)
1998 (18mm)
*  Short-term foreign cons. (School of Mag.)   667.5         667.5        SL        1996 (Imm)
1997 (6 mm)
1998 (6 mm)
1999 (6 mm)
2000 (6 mm)
*  Long-term local cons.svces.(School of        47.1          44.7        SL        1997-2000
Magistrates)                                                                    (total 60 mm)
8. Project Management Unit
*  Project Director                             146.4        146.4  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Procurement Coordinator                      50.0          50.0  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Procurement Assistant                         18.6         18.6  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Supervision Coordinator                      22.9          22.9  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Project Accountant                           30.9          30.9  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Project Acct.Assistant                        18.6         18.6  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Supply/Finances Assistant                    42.6          42.6  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Secretariat Services                          15.4         15.4  Indiv.selected   1996-2000
*  Other staff (janitor, guads,chauffeurs)      25.0          25.0  Indiv.selected   1996-2000



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule D
Timetable for the Procurement
of Goods and Services






MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
List of Project Activities and Procurement Procedures
Table 1: Goods
Activity                        Cost      IDA         Procurement      Expected       Expected Date
USS'000  Financing  Method             Date of       of contract
tender        signing
launching
Vehicles (2)                         63.7       48.6       ICB         Nov. 1996      March 1997
Vehicles (1)                         31.9       30.7       ICB         March 1997    August 1997
Office Equipment                    500.0      406.3       ICB         Nov. 1996      March 1997
Office Equipment                    140.0      112.3       NCB         Oct. 1996      December 1996
Office Equipment                    787.7      651.1       ICB         June 1997      November 1997
Office Equipment                    181.9      150.3       NCB         July 1997      September 1997
Law books                          433.1       385.6   Direct contract.  June 1997    November 1997
Law books                          444.2       384.4   Direct contract.  June 1998    November 1998
Teaching aides/materials             79.4       71.2   Direct contract.  Nov. 1996    March 1997
Teaching aides/materials             79.5       51.6  Int'l Shopping   Nov. 1996      March 1997
Technical Manuals on Nat'l Accts      4.2        4.2   Int'l Shopping   Nov. 1996     March 1997
& Business Survey
Publication of legal texts          182.0      136.5       NCB         1996-2000
Publication of legal texts          190.4      142.8       NCB         1996-2000
Publications (trimestrial            25.9       19.4  Local shopping    For period
econ.review Min.Plan)                                                  1996-2000
Eqpt./vehicle operation/maint.       83.3       73.2       NCB         1996-2000
Eqpt./vehicle operation/maint.       83.3       73.2  Int'I Shopping   1996-2000
Eqpt./vehicle operation/maint.      140.9      112.2  Local shopping    1996-2000
Eqpt./vehicle operation/maint.      136.4      105.3  Direct contract.   1996-2000
Project Mgmt.Unit (oper.costs)      145.2      140.8  Direct contract.   1996-2000
PPF Refinancning (goods)            304.8      290.4  Local shopping    August 1996    November 1996
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
List of Project Activities and Procurement Procedures
Table 2: Consultancies, Studies, Training
Cost        IDA           Procurement    Years
_____________________________  US$'OOO         financing     Method
*i ,cal Assistance
i; port to the STA component
mcal Consultant in Communication            42.8          40.7        SL         1997-1998
(24 months)
h9evelopment Economist (expatriate)          108.3        108.3        SL          1997(12mths)
.'..pport to INSTAT
hort-term expatriate consultants           289.9         289.9        SL          1996 - 3 mths
1997 - 2 mths
1998 - 2 mths
1999- 3 mths
2000 - I mth
-;al cons.for household survey             106.9         101.6        SS         1996-1999
c 3 cons. for Nat'l Accts.                  9.9           9.4        SS         1997
'cal cons. for conjonctural survey          73.0         69.4         SS         1996-2000
,ert to Min. Plan
.cai cons. (PEP/PIP preparation)            49.6          47.1        SL         1996-2000
.-al cons. (training)                       12.2          11.6        SL         1997 (12mm)
.gn cons. (audit)                         38.1         38.1         SL         1996 (2 mm)
.reign cons. (sectoral strategies)         118.4         118.4        SL         1997(3 mm)
U-.eign cons. (PIP/PEP)                     154.2         154.2        SL         1996 (2 mm)
1997 (3 mm)
1998 (3 mm)
7;.?ort to Min.Finance
WEert-term local cons. (Payroll)              6.1          5.8         SL         1997 (6 mm)
.al cons.svcs. for Budgetary Reform        73.5          69.8        SL         1996-1998
(36 mm)
X 'lort-term foreign cons.svces. for         58.5          58.5        SL         1997 (3 mm)
~dgetary Reform
*,1-term foreign cons.(Extemal Debt)       78.0          78.0        SL          1997 (4mm)
-crt-term foreign cons.(Etabl.Publics)     115.5         115.5        SL         1996-2000
. '.al Cons. (Etabi.Publics)                  5.9           5.6        SL         1996 (6 mm)



A. Economic Management
1. TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT FOR ADJUSTMENT
(Prime Minister's Office / Secretariat Technique a I'Ajustement)
'95           96          '97            98            99           00
Task Name                                                   Start    Finish  Q1Q21Q31Q4|Q1 |Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1 |Q21Q3|Q4|Q1 |Q2|Q3lQ4|Q1 |Q2|Q3lQ4|Q1Q21Q31Q41Q1 |Q2|Q3
1 SUPPORT TO THE SECRETARIAT FOR ADJUSTMENT                317195    6/30/01
1.1 - Creation of STA                                  3/7/95    3/7/95
1.2 - Implementation of Organizational Structure       4/1/95    9/30/95
1.3 - Coordination for Economic and Sectoral Reforms   4/1/95    6/30/01                       __._._l
1.4 - Economic Reports and Projections                 5/1/95    6/30/01                       _
1.5 - Coordination for Monitoring of Social Indicators  5/1/95    6/30/01
1.6 - Communication Plan                              11/27/95   6/30/01
1.6.1 - Workshop on Communication                 11/27/95  11/30/95
1.6.2 - Plan for Information Campaign on Adjustment    12/1/95   6/30/01          :                           _ .   :
1.6.3 - Implementation of Information Campaigns    7/1/96   12/31/97
1.7 - Study Fund                                       111/97    9/30/98
1.7.1 Study on Vanilla                       ,     1/1/97   12/31/97
1.7.2 Study on Energy                              7/1/97    9/30/98
1.8 - Training Activities                              9/2/96    6/30/01
1.8.1 - Training Abroad                            9/2/96    6/30/01
1.8.2 - Training In-country                        7/1/97    6/30/01
1.9 - Technical Assist3nce                            11/15/95  12/31/98           W*
1.9.1 - National Consultants in Communication     11/15/95  12/31/98                                                                                  :
1.9.2 - Expatriate Consu3tant / Development Economist   511/97   12/31/97                 .
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
Project: PAIGEP                                                        Progress                               Rolled Up Milestone  )
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1 st Oct.96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG       Milestone                              Rolled Up Progress
Summary
STA3.MPP



A. Economic Management
2. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS
(INSTAT)
'96           97           98         199             w0          '01
Task Name                                                        Start        Finish     Q4Q11IQ2IQ3IQ4IQ1IQ2lQ3IQ41Q1IQ2IQ3lQ41QIIQ2IQ3JQ4JQ1IQ2IQ3IQ4lQIIQ2IQ3
I SUPPORT TO THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS               10/2195       6/30101       I
1.1 NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                       7/1196        3/31/98       .
1.1.1 Complete National Accounts Data Base 1993/94/95   7/1/96       6/30/97
1.1.2 Production of Final National Accounts 1993/94/95  10/1/96      12/31/97
1.1.3 Methodologyfor Production of SerialAccounts       11/1/96      12/31/97
1.1.4 Production of 1995 NationalAccounts               10/2/96       3/31/98
1.2 HOUSEHOLD WELFARE ANALYSIS                              10/2/95       9/29/99
1.2.1 - Processing / Analysis / Publication of EPM results  10/2/95  12/31/95
1.2.2 First Priority Survey                             12/1/96      12/31/97
1.2.2.1  Preparation and Processing                 12/1/96      3/31/97
1.2.2.2 Data Editing /Analysis /Publication         4/1/97       12/31/97
1.2.3 Second Priority Survey                            1/2/98       9/29/99
1.2.3.1 Preparation and Processing                  1/2/98       12/31/98
1.2.3.2 Data Editing / Analysis /Publication        1/1/99       9/29/99
1.3 BUSINESS CYCLE SURVEY                                    1/5/96       6/30/01
1.3.1  Methodology                                      4/1/96       6/30/96
1.3.2 Preparation                                       4/1/96       6/30/96
1.3.3 Preparation of first business cycle survey 1996   7/1/96       8/30/96               n _
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
Project:PAIGEP                                                          Progress                                Rolled Up Milestone '
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct.96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG         Milestone                               Rolled Up Progress
Summary
INSTAT3.MPP                                                                          1



A. Economic Management
2. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS
(INSTAT)
'96          97          '98            99          '00 o01
Task Name                                                      Start        Finish    Q4101IQ21031040QlTQ2lQ3lQ4l1QQ20Q3lQ401Q0Q20Q30Q4011Q21031041T1IQ2103
1.3.4 Preparation of second business cycle survey 1996  10/1/96    10/31/96                -
1.3.5 Preparationofthirdbusinesscyclesurvey1996       12/1/96      12131/96
1.3.6 Workshop                                        11/1/96      12/31/96
1.3.7 Preparation of first business cycle survey 1997  10/1/96      1/31/97
1.3.8 Publication of second business cycle survey 1997  7/1/97     9/30/97              .
1.3.9 Preparabon of first business cycle survey 1998  10/1/97       1/31/98
1.3.10 Publication of second business cycle survey 1998  7/1/98    9/30/98
1.3.11 Preparation of first business cyde survey 1999  10/1/98      1/31/99      .
1.3.12 Publication of second business cycle survey 1999  7/1/99    9/30/99
1.3.13 Preparation of first business cycle survey 2000  10/1/99     1/31/00
1.3.14 Publication of second business cycle survey 2000  7/1/00    9/29/00
1.3.15 Publication of first business cycle survey 2001  1/1/01     1/30/01
1.3.16 Training of unit staff                          1/5/96      6/30/01
1.4 TRAINING ACTMTIES                                      9/6/96      6/30/01                                              I                                _
1.4.1 Training Abroad                                 9/6/96       6/30/01
1.4.2 Training In-ountry                              9/6/96       6/30/01
1.4.3 Seminar In-country (National Accounts)          9/6/96       6/30/01
1.5 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   9/2/96      6/30/01
Task                                  Rolled Up Task
Project:PAIGEP                                                        Progress                              Rolled Up Milestone  )
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct.96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG       Milestone                             Rolled Up Progress
Summary
INSTAT3.MPP                                                                       2



A. Economic Management
2. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS
(INSTAT)
36Xss  1    17         1398          1         I                   01
Task Name                                                        Start        Finish    Q41Q1IO21Q3AjQ1110Q2IQ3IO41QI213IQ411Q21031O4IQ1lIQ2lQ31Q41Q1IQ2lQ3
1.5.1 Short Term Expatriate Consultants                 9/2/96       6/26/01
1.5.2 Short Tern Local Consultants                      9/2/96       6/26/01
1.5.3 Local Consultants for Household Survey            1/7/97       6/30/01
1.5.4 Local Consultant for National Accounts Survey     9/2/96       6/26/01
1.5.5 Local Consulant fr Conjundurs Survey              9/2/96       6/26/01
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
Projed:PAIGEP                                                           Progress                               Rolled Up Milestone
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct.96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG         Milestone                              Rolled Up Progress
Summary
INSTAT3.MPP                                                                          3



A. Economic Management
3. MINISTRY OF BUDGET, FINANCE, PLANNING AND ECONOMY
(3.1 Finance and Budget Departments)
'96           '97            ' 98          99              00            01
Task Name                                                           Start    Finish  Q1IQ2lQ31I41QOlQ2IQ3 Q41IQ2lQ3Q4Q1Q2 |Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q12Q3
1 STRENGHTENING FINANCE AND BUDGET DEPARTMENTS                     811/96   6/29/01
1.1 - Treasury Audit                                           9/2/96   12/31/96
1.2 - Public Debt Management                                   2/3/97   4/30/97
1.3 - Computerizaton of the Treasury                           1/2/97    6/30/97
1.4 - Budgetary Reform                                         1/1/97    6130/97
1.5 - Computerizadon for Budgetary Reform                      4/3/97   12/31/97
1.6 - Audit of Govemment Agencies (Ets Pub. 4 BA., C.C)        10/1/96   6/29/01
1.7 - Payroll (Etude Proc6dures de GestUon et Informatisatlon)  8/1/96   10/31/96
1.8 - Computerizaton of the Payroll                            1/1/97   12/31/97
1.9 - Training AcUvWtes                                        10/1/96   12/31/98
1.9.1 Training abroad                                      10/1/96   12/31/98
1.9.2 Training In-country                                  10/1/96   12/31/98
1.10 - Technical Assistance                                    8/1/96    6/29/01        v       I
1.10.1 ShortTerm National Consultant for Payroll           8/1/96    3/31/97
1.10.2 Short Term Expatriate Consultant for Extemal Debt   9/2/96    5/30/97
1.10.3 Long Term National Consultant for Budgetary Refofm  10/1/96   9/30/99
1.10.4 Short Term Expatriate Consultant for Budgetary Reform  1/1/97   12/31/97
1.10.5 Short Term Expatriate Consultants for Govemment Agenc  10/1/96   6/29/01
1.10.6 National Consultant for Govemment Agencies          10/1/96   6/29/01  .      -
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
Project: PAIGEP                                                        Progress                               Rolled Up Milestone 0
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG       Milestone                              Rolled Up Progress
Summary__
FINAN3a.MPP                                                                         1



A. Economic Management
3. DEPARTMENTS OF BUDGET, FINANCE, PLANNING AND ECONOMY
(3.2 Planning and Economy)
*96            97      1      98      1      99      1        00    1      01
Task Name                                                               Start    Finish  Q1 Q2JQ3JQ4 Q1 |Q2Q3JQ4|Q1 0Q2Q30Q4lQ1 Q2|Q3lQ4lQ1|020Q30Q40Q1 Q20Q3
1 STRENGHTENING PLANNING AND ECONOMY DEPARTMENTS                        1/1/96    6/29/01
1.1 - Organizational Audit of Planning and Economy Departments     9/2/96    9/30/96
1.2- Project Study Fund                                            9/2/96    6/29/01
1.3- Strenghtening of Expenditure Programming                      1/1/96   12/31/98          .4-
1.3.1 1996-1998                                                1/1/96   12/31/98
1.3.1.1  Education                                         1/1/97   12/31/97                       -
1.3.1.2 Health                                             1/1/97   12/31/97                       -
1.3.1.3 Agriculture                                        1/1196   12/31/98
1.3.1.4 Public works                                       1/1/97   12/31/97                       -
1.3.2 1997-1998                                                7/1197    6/30/98
1.3.2.1 Environment                                        7/1/97    6/30/98                              -
1.3.2.2 Transportation                                     7/1/97    6/30/98                              -
1.3.2.3 Energy                                             7/1/97    6/30/98                              -
1.3.2.4 Mining                                             7/1/97    6/30/98                              -
1.3.2.5 Water                                              7/1/97    6/30/98                              -
1.4 - Training Activities                                          10/1/96   6/29/01            _                                                                      _
1.4.1 Training Abroad (Comite de Suivi des Projets)            10/1/96   6/29/01
1.4.2 Training Abroad (PIP and PEP)                           10/1/96   6/29/01
Task                                     Rolled Up Task
Project:PAIGEP                                                            Progress                                 Rolled Up Milestone
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG          Milestone                                Rolled Up Progress
Summary
FINAN3b.MPP                                                                             1



A. Economic Management
3. DEPARTMENTS OF BUDGET, FINANCE, PLANNING AND ECONOMY
(3.2 Planning and Economy)
'96           '97      1      '98     1      99      I      00             '01
Task Name                                                               Start    Finish   Q1 0Q2 0Q3 Q4 Q0  Q20Q30Q401  0Q20Q30Q401  0Q2 Q3 Q4|01 Q021030Q401  0Q20Q3
1.4.3 Training In-country                                     10/1/96   12/31/98
1.4.3.1  PEP Workshop in Antananarivo                     10/1/96   10/15/96
1.4.3.2  PIP / PEP workshops                               1/1/97   12/31/98                         :_:
1.5 - Technical Assistance                                         1011196   12/31/98
1.5.1  Short Term Expatriate Consultant (Audi d'Organisation)  10/11/96   10/31/96
1.5.2 Long Term National Consultant (PIP + PEP)               10/1/96   12/31/98            _                                                               :
1.5.3 Short Term National Consultants (Trainings)              1/1/97   12/31/98                _                                                           :
1.5.4 Short Term  Expatriate Consultants (Trainings)           1/1/97   12/31/98                _
1.5.5 Short Term Expatriate Consultants (Sect. Strategies)     1/1/97   12/31/98                _
1.5.6 Short Term Expatriate Consultants (PIP + PEP)           10/1/96   8/28/98
Task                                     Rolled Up Tak
Project:PAIGEP                                                            Progress                                 Rolled Up Milestone K
Date: 811/96
Before 1st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP CredXt and PPF 919 MAG          Milestone                                Rolled Up Progress
Summary
FINAN3b.MPP                                                                             2



B. Governance
4. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
'96             '97       1      '98      1       '99             '00              01
ID  Task Name                                                        Start   Ql Q2 Q3 Q40Q1  Q20Q3 Q4[Q1 0Q2 Q3 Q4Q1 I2Q3  Q4Q1 Q2|IQ3|IQ4101 |Q2|Q3
1  1 CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                                           1011/96          .                                 I
2      1.1 Diagnostic Studies                                       11/1/96          .
3           1.1.1  Study for Ministry of Education                  11/1/96
4           1.1.2 Study for Ministry of Health                      11/1/96
5           1.1.3 Study for Ministry of Public Works                11/1/96
6           1.1.4 StudyforMinistry of Agriculture                    11/1/96
7      1.2 Workshops on Civil Service Reform                        2/17/97         .     .     .  ;
8           1.2.1  National Workshop (Preparatory Phase)            2/17/97
9           1.2.2 "4" Sectoral Workshops (100 persons)              3/17/97
10          1.2.3 "6" Regional Workshops (300 persons)               4/15/97          .
11          1.2.4 National workshop (findings and recommandations)   6/16/97          .
12      1.3 Implementation and Recommandations (Innov. Fund)          5/1/97          ..                             
13      1.4 Training                                                 11/1/96          .
14          1.4.1  Training of workshops' facilitators, ...          11/1/96
15          1.4.2 Training of staff representatives                  11/1/96
16      1.5 Technical Assistance                                     10/1/96
17          1.5.1 Workshops Coordinator (National Consultant)        10/1/96                     -        _                    _                _          _          _
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
Project:PAIGEP                                                          Progress                                Rolled Up Milestone 0
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG        Milestone                               Rolled Up Progress
Summary
CIVSERV3.MPP                                                                          1



B. Governance
5. DECENTRALIZATION
'96                     '97                       '98
Task Name                                                           Start    Finish     1    Q2 |3   04   0Q1    Q2   Q3   04    Q1    Q2   Q3    Q4
1 DECENTRALIZATION                                                 IM11/96  8U31/98
1.1 STUDIES FOR DECENTRALIZATION                               1111196  5U29198
1.1.1 Study 1: PrelimInary Studies                         1/11)96  10/31/96
1.1.1.1  l.a Raports entre Ett et communes             1/11/96  10/31/96
1.1.2 Study 1: Preliminary Studie                          1/1/97   6/30/97
1.1.2.1  1.b Rapports entre Etat R6gions et Dpartements  1/1/97   6/30197
1.1.2.2 1.c Proposition de d6concentration             1/1/97   6/30/97
1.1.3 Study 2: SocitChble tAdminitrbUon Local.             1/1/97   3/31/97
1.1.4 Study 3: Cadre Budg6talre et Complabltllb local.     3/3/97   9/30/97
1.1.5 Study 4: Gestlon et Sttt du Personne Local           3/3/97   11/30/97
1.1.6 Study 5: Rforme de Finances Locabs                   3/3/97   9/30/97
1.1.7 Study 6: Amlloratlon Gestion des Services Locaux    1/1/97   8/31/97
1.1.8 Study 7: Syntise et Evaluatlon                       4/1/98   5/29/98
1.2 PILOT OPERATION FOR FISCAL CENSUS (6 Sites)                511/97    1/30/98
1.3 COMPUTERIZATION                                            5/1/97    1/30/98
1.4 TRAINING ACTIVITIES                                        9/1196   11/30/97                _                            _
1.4.1  Seminar for State Representatives and Mayors        9/1/96    8.3197 
1.4.2  Seminar for Local Top Management (urban Communes)   8/1 /97   11/30/97
1.4.3  Seminar for General Secretaries (Mairies)           8/1/97   11/30/97                                            -
1.4.4  Seminar Financial Directors (Urban Communes)        8/1/97   11/30/97                                            -
Task                                 Rolled Up Task
Project: PAIGEP                                                      Progress                              Rolled Up Milestone  )
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1 st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG    Milestone                             Rolled Up Progress
Summary
DECEN3.MPP                                                                        1



B. Governance
5. DECENTRALIZATION
'96                      '97                       1 98_
Task Name                                                            Start    Finish    01    Q2  |Q3    Q4    Q1    Q2    Q3    Q4   Q1    Q2   03    Q4
1.5 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                        1111196   8131/98                            _ .                              _
1.5.1  Expatriate Consultant Study la                       1/11/96   10/31/96
1.5.2  National Consultant Study 1 a                        1/11/96   10/31/96
1.5.3  Expatriate Consultant Study 1 b                       1/1/97    6/30/97
1.5.4  National Consultant Study 1 b                        1/1/97    6/30/97
1.5.5  Expatriate Consultant Study 1 c                       1/1/97    6/30/97
1.5.6  National Consultant Study 1 c                        1/1/97    6/30/97
1.5.7  Expatriate Consultant Study 2                         1/1/97    3/31/97
1.5.8  National Consultant Study 2                           1/1/97   3/31/97
1.5.9  Expatriate Consultant Study 3                        3/3/97    9/30/97
1.5.10 National Consultant Study 3                          3/3/97    9/30/97
1.5.11 Expatriate Consultant Study 4                        3/3/97   11/30/97
1.5.12 National Consultant Study 4                          3/3/97   11/30/97
1.5.13 Expatriate Consultant Study 5                        3/3/97    9/30/97
1.5.14 National Consultant Study 5                          3/3/97    9/30/97
1.5.15 Expatriate Consultant Study 6                         1/1/97   8/31/97                                      _
1.5.16 National Consultant Study 6                          1/1/97   8/31/97
1.5.17 Office Technical Expert (6 Pilot Sites)              5/1/97    8/31/98
1.5.18 Expatriate Consultant for Synthesis and Evaluation   4/1/98    5/29/98                                                           M
1.5.19 National Consultant for Synthesis ans Evaluation      4/1/98    5/29/98.
Task                                  Rolled Up Task
Project: PAIGEP                                                       Progress                               Rolled Up Milestone
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG      Milestone                              Rolled Up Progress
Summary
DECEN3.MPP                                                                         2



B. Governance
6. LEGAL AND JUDICIARY REFORM
Task Name ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  96   1  97                                                          ' 98  1  99                  '00]O          .011
Task Name                                                            |  Start      Finish   Q4|Q1  Q2lQ3Q4Ql0203040                2030Q4lQ1 |Q2|Q3|Q4Q1  Q2l3|4Q1  02034
1 LEGAL AND JUDICIARY REFORM                                            11/1/95    121251011
11 Establishment of a Steerng Committee                            11/1/95    3/29/96
1 2 Publication of Legal Information                                7/1/96    6/30/98
1.3 Reform of Existing Commercial and Business Laws                 1/1/97    6/30/01
1.4 Establishment of the School of Magistrature                    11/12/95    6/30/01   _
1.4.1  Mission for Judicial and Institutionnal Framework      11/12/95   11/22/95
1.4.2 Second mission                                           4/2/96     4/15/96
1.4.3 School Opening                                           10/1/96    10/1/96
1.4.4 Training Activities (200 Magistrates)                     1/1/97    6/30/01
1.5 Streamline the Litigation Process in Lower Courts               7/1196    6/30/97
1.5.1  Study Phase                                             4/1/97     6/30/97
1.5.2 Implementation Phase                                     7/1/96     6/30/97
1.6 Streamline the Effectiv. of the Min. of Justice and the Courts  12/1/95    12125/01
1.6.1 Study of Salaries                                        12/1/95    6/30/97
1 6.2 Implementation Phase                                     7/1/97    12/25/01
1.7 Study on Arbdration for Commercial Dispute                      6/1/97    7/31/97
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
Project: PAIGEP                                                          Progress                                Rolled Up Milestone
Date: 8/1/96
Before 1st Oct. 96, financing is on EMSAP Credit,and PPF 919 MAG         Milestone                               Rolled Up Progress
Summary
LEGAL3.MPP                                                                               Page 1



C. COORDINATION
7. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
'96      1       '97       ]       '98      ]                 ]9      co        ]      '01
Task Name                                               Start    Finish    1  02  03   4|Q1  0Q20Q3 lQ401 Q2Q3lQ4Q1  0Q2 031  4Q1 0Q2 03 Q41Q1 02103
I PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                               912/96    6129101                        i n                                                              ,       _
1.1  Project Administrative Director               9/2/96    6/29/01
1.2  Procurement Coordinator                       9/2/96    6/29/01
1.3  Procurement Assistant                         9/2/96    6/29/01
1.4  Supervision Coordinator                       9/2/96    6/29/01
1.5  Project Accountant                            9/2/96    6/29/01            *        i               :                                  I :
1.6  Project Accountant Assistant                   9/2/96    6/29/01
1.7  Supply / Finance Assistant                     9/2/96    6/29/01
1.8  Secretariat Services                          9/2/96    6/29/01
1.9   Other Staff (Janitor, guards, drivers,..)     9/2/96    6/29/01        .       E
1.10 Audit of Project Accounts (Annual and Quarterly)   9/2/96    6/29/01       .                                                 i
1.11  Training and Bi-annual Meetings               9/2/96    6/29/01
Task                                    Rolled Up Task
Project: PAIGEP                                                           Progress                                 Rolled Up Milestone
Date: 8/11/96
Before 1st Oct.96, financing is on EMSAP Credit and PPF 919 MAG           Milestone                                Rolled Up Progress
Summary
COORD3.MPP                                                                           Page 1



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule C
Project Cost Tables






Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Project Components by Year - Bas Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost
1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      Total
1. STA (Technical Secretariat for Adjustment)              383.0      438.0     308.0     287.0      137.0    1,553.0
2. Support to the National Statistical lnstitute           578.9      348.4     199.9      206.1     124.1    1,457.4
3. Support to the Depts. of Finance & Budget               341.0      895.0     214.0      192.0      20.0    1,662.0
4. Support to the Depts. of Plan & Economy                  219.2     402.5     383.5      279.5     273.5    1,558.2
5. Civil Service Reform                                    236.1      513.2     200.0     200.0      200.0    1,349.3
6. Decentralization                                         254.4    1,345.4    133.0         -          -     1,732.8
7. LegaVJudiciary Reform                                   717.0    1,660.5   1,031.0     555.0      201.0    4,164.5
8. Project Management Unit                                  65.9      139.0     139.0      139.0     139.0      622.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         2,795.5    5,742.0   2,608.4    1,858.6   1,094.6   14,099.2
Physical Contingencies                                      139.8     287.1     130.4       92.9      54.7      705.0
Price ContingencIes
Inflaton
Local                                                    49.6     365.2     201.4      226.0     171.5    1,013.7
Foreign                                                  17.4     110.5     102.0       94.3      69.1      393.4
Subtotal Inflaton                                          67.0     475.6     303.4      320.3     240.7    1,407.1
Devaluation                                               -92.6    -439.0    -223.2    -218.7    -149.2   -1,122.7
Subtotal Price Contingencies                               -25.6       36.6      80.2      101.6      91.5      284.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          2,909.7   6,065.7   2,819.1    2,053.2    1,240.9   15,088.6
Txs                                                         231.0     217.1      93.9       51.8      25.0      618.8
Foreign Exchange                                          1,953.9    3,647.0   1,876.1    1,217.8    691.8    9,386.4



Madapscar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Comporents Proect Cost Summary
(FPG Million)                                      (USS 000)
%     % Total                                     #      % Total
Foreign   Bse                                     Foreign   Boa
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange  Cosb       Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
1. STA (Technical Secretariat for Adjustment)            3,811.5    2,944.1     6,755.6       44      11      876.2      676.8     1,553.0       44      11
2. Support to the National Statistical Institute         2,872.2     3,467.5    6,339.6       55       10     660.3      797.1     1,457.4       55      10
3.SupporttotheDepts.ofFinanoe&Budget                     1,496.8     5,732.9    7,229.7       79       12     344.1    1,317.9     1,662.0       79      12
4.SupporutotheDepts.ofPlan&Economy                       2,119.1     4,659.3    6,778.3       69       11     487.1    1,071.1     1,558.2       69      11
5. CMi Service Reform                                    2,867.8     3,001.7    5,869.5       51      10      659.3      690.1     1,349.3       51      10
6. Decentralization                                      2,611.3     4,926.3    7,537.5       65       12      600.3    1,132.5    1,732.8       65      12
7. LegaVJudiciary Reform                                 5,942.2    12,173.4    18,115.6      67      30    1,366.0    2,798.5     4,164.5       67      30
8. Propet Managemrent Unit                               2,354.0      351.8     2,705.8       13       4       541.2      80.9       622.0       13       4
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                        24,074.9    37,256.8    61,331.7      61     100    5,534.5    8,564.8    14,099.2      61      100
Physical Contngencies                                    1,203.7     1,862.8    3,066.6       61       5       276.7     428.2       705.0       61       5
Price Contirgences                                       4,716.8    10,101.2    14,818.0      68      24      -109.0     393.4       284.4      138       2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        29,995.4    49,220.9    79,216.3      62     129    5,702.1    9,386.4    15,088.6      62      107



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Expendtture Accounts Project Cost Summary
(FMG Million)                                      (USS '°°0)
%     % Total                                    %      % Total
Foreign   Base                                   Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs    Local    Foreign       Total   Exchange  Costs
1. Investnt Costs
A. Goods
1. Vehicles                                   122.2      271.0      393.2       69        1      28.1       62.3       90.4       69       1
2. Office Equipmerit                         1,985.8    4,605.0    6,590.8      70       11     456.5    1,058.6    1,515.1       70      11
3. Books                                    2,252.9    3,571.8    5,824.7       61        9     517.9      821.1     1,339.0      61       9
Subtotal Goods                                4,360.9    8,447.8   12,808.6       66       21    1,002.5   1,942.0    2,944.5       66      21
B. Advisoq Sevices
1. Technical Assistance
Local TA.                                 4,787.9      313.2    5,101.1        6        8    1,100.7      72.0    1,172.7        6       8
Foreign Technical Assistance                834.3   13,355.4   14,189.7       94       23      191.8   3,070.2    3,262.0       94      23
Subtol-lTechnkcalAisktance                  5,622.2    13,668.6    19,290.8     71       31    1,292.5   3,142.2    4,434.7       71      31
2. Training
Local Training                            2,950.2          -    2,950.2         -       5     678.2          -      678.2        -       5
Overseas Training                               -    4,738.5    4,738.5      100        8          -    1,089.3    1,089.3     100       8
SubtotalTraining                            2,950.2    4,738.5    7,688.6       62       13      678.2   1,089.3    1,767.5       62      13
3. Studies                                  2,203.3    3,669.2    5,872.5       62       10      506.5     843.5    1,350.0       62      10
4. Public information Campaigns             2,610.0          -    2,610.0         -       4      600.0         -      600.0        -       4
5. Surveys                                    580.3          -      580.3         -       1      133.4         -      133.4        -       1
6. Workshops                                 1,098.8         -     1,098.8        -       2      252.6         -      252.6                2
7. Pilot Activities                          1,854.8    2,782.3    4,637.1      60        8      426.4     639.6     1,066.0      60       8
Subtotal Advisory Services                    16,919.6   24,858.5   41,778.1      60       68    3,889.6   5,714.6    9,604.2       60      68
C. Miscellaneous
PPF Refinancing                               858.8    3,435.2    4,294.0       80        7      197.4     789.7      987.1       80       7
Unforeseen                                    113.9       48.8      162.7       30        -       26.2      11.2       37.4       30        -
ProjectManagement Unit Costs                    9.8        3.3       13.1       25        -        2.3       0.8        3.0       25
Subtotal Miscellaneous                          982.5    3,487.3    4,469.8       78        7      225.9     801.7    1,027.5       78       7
Total Investment Costs                          22,262.9   36,793.6   59,056.5      62       96    5,117.9   8,458.3   13,576.2       62      96
II. Recurrent Costs
Equipment Operabon and Maintenance              497.2      455.4      952.7       48        2      114.3     104.7      219.0       48       2
Operating Costs                                1,314.7       7.8    1,322.6        1        2      302.2       1.8      304.0        1       2
Total RecurnintCosts                             1,811.9     463.3    2,275.2       20        4     416.5      106.5      523.0       20       4
Total BASEUNE COSTS                             24,074.9   37,256.8   61,331.7       61     100    5,534.5   8,564.8   14,099.2       61      100
Physical Contingencies                         1,203.7    1,862.8    3,066.6      61        5      276.7     428.2      705.0       61       5
Price Contingencies                            4,716.8   10,101.2   14,818.0      68       24    -109.0      393.4      284.4      138       2
Total PROJECT COSTS                             29,995.4   49,220.9   79,216.3       62     129    5,702.1    9,386.4   15,088.6      62      107



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Expenditure Accounts by Yean - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Coat                             Foreign Exchange
1996      1997       1998      1999       2000       Total       %      Amount
1. Investmnt Cost
A. Goods
1. Vehices                                     60.4       30.0         -          -          -        90.4    68.9       62.3
2. Office Equipment                           608.3      906.9          -         -          -     1,515.1    69.9    1,058.6
3. Books                                       189.0     555.0      455.0      85.0       55.0     1,339.0    61.3      821.1
Subtotal Goods                                  857.7    1,491.9      455.0      85.0       55.0     2,944.5    66.0    1,942.0
B. Advisy Services
1. Technical Assisbnce
Local TA.                                   123.7      556.6      208.7     163.7      119.9     1,172.7     6.1       72.0
Foreign Technical Assistance                256.0    1,584.0      752.0     501.0      169.0     3,262.0    94.1    3,070.2
Subtotal Technical As nstance                 379.7    2,140.6      960.7     664.7      288.9     4,434.7    70.9    3,142.2
2. Training
Local Training                               42.8      458.7      101.5      39.0       36.2       678.2       -          -
OverseasTraining                             54.5      301.4      298.0     301.4      134.0     1,089.3   100.0    1,089.3
Subtotal Training                              97.3      760.1      399.5     340.4      170.2     1,767.5    61.6    1,089.3
3. Studies                                    202.0      287.0      287.0     287.0      287.0     1,350.0    62.5      843.5
4. Public information Campaigns               120.0      180.0      150.0     150.0          -       600.0       -          -
S. Surveys                                     10.0       46.7       21.7      30.0       25.0       133.4
6. Workshops                                    17.4     235.2          -         -          -       252.6       -          -
7. Plot Activities                                -      445.0      221.0     200.0      200.0     1,066.0    60.0      639.6
Subtotal Advisory Services                       826.4    4,094.6    2,039.9    1,672.1    971.1     9,604.2    59.5    5,714.6
C. Miscellaneous
PPF Refinancing                               987.1          -          -         -          -       987.1    80.0      789.7
Unforeseen                                     17.4       10.0       10.0         -          -        37.4    30.0       11.2
Project Management Unit Costs                   0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6         3.0    25.0        0.8
Subtotal Miscellaneous                         1,005.1      10.6       10.6       0.6        0.6     1,027.5    78.0      801.7
TotallnvestnentCosts                             2,689.2    5,597.1    2,505.5    1,757.7    1,026.7    13,576.2    62.3    8,458.3
II. Recurrent Costs
Equipment Operation and Maintenance              41.2       54.7       47.7      47.7       27.7       219.0    47.8      104.7
Operating Costs                                  65.2       90.2       55.2       53.2      40.2       304.0     0.6        1.8
Total RecurrentCosts                               106.4     144.9      102.9      100.9      67.9       523.0    20.4      106.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                             2,795.5    5,742.0    2,608.4    1,858.6    1,094.6    14,099.2    60.7    8,564.8
Physical Contingencies                           139.8     287.1      130.4      92.9       54.7       705.0    60.7      428.2
Price ConUngencies
Inflation
Local                                        49.6      365.2      201.4     226.0      171.5     1,013.7       -
Foreign                                      17.4      110.5      102.0      94.3       69.1       393.4   100.0      393.4
Subtotal Inflation                             67.0      475.6      303.4      320.3     240.7     1,407.1    28.0      393.4
Devaluation                                   -92.6    -439.0    -223.2    -218.7    -149.2    -1,122.7          -          -
Subtotal Price Contngencies                     -25.6       36.        80.2      101.6      91.5       284.4   138.3      393.4
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                2,909.7    6,065,7    2,819.1    2,053.2    1,240.9    15,088.6    62.2    9,386.4
Taxes                                           231.0      217.1       93.9       51.8      25.0       618.8                  -
Foreign Exchange                               1,953.9    3,647.0    1,876.1    1,217.8    691.8     9,386.4



Madagascar
Pubilc Management Capacity Buildng Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
STA      Support to
(Technical     the      support to  support to
Secretriat   National   the Depts.  the Depts.    Civil                                        Project                  Physical
for      Statistical  of Finance   of Plan &    Service                  LegaUJudlclary  Management               Contingencies
Adjustment)  Institute    & Budget   Economy    Reform    Decentralization       Relorm          Unit       Total      %     Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Vehicles                                                   204            -                  40.0              30 0               -           -        90,4      50      45
2.OfficeEquipment                                    -       1614        5950         412       17.6             1144             5855           -      1.5151      50     758
3. Books                                             -         40            -        250          -                 -          1,3100           -      1,3390      5.0    670
Subtotal Goods                                         -       185.8       595 0        66 2      57 6             144 4          1,895 5          -      2.944 5     5.0   147 2
B. Advisory Services
1. Technkal Assistance
Local TA.                                       42.0       183.7        84 0        60.0      12 0             202.0            234 0      355.0      1,172.7     50     58.6
Foreign Technical Assistance                   100.0       268.0       230.0      286.0          -             662 0          1,716.0          -     3,262.0      5.0   163.1
SublolalTechnlaalAssistance                      142.0       4517        314.0       3460       12.0             8640           1,9500       3550       4,434.7     5.0   221.7
2. TralInng
Local Tritning                                  90.0        59.1           -          -       101              2700             249.0          -       678.2      50     33.9
Oversu Trninig                                 250.0       192.8       480.0       166.5         -                 -               -           -      1,089.3     5.0    54.5
Subtoal Training                                 340.0       251.9       480.0       166.5      10.1             270.0            249 0          -      1,767.5     5.0    88.4
3. StudIes                                       160.0           -           -       950.0     130.0                 -                -       110.0     1,350.0     50     67.5
4. Publc Informabon Campaigns                    600.0           -           -           -         -                 -                -          -       600 0      5.0    30.0
5. Surveys                                           -       133.4           -           -         -                 -                -          -       133.4      5.0      6.7
6. Wtrwkhops                                         -           -           -          -      252 6                 -                -                  252.6      5.0    12.6
7. Pilol Acivifis                                    -           -           -          -      870.0             196.0                -          -      1,066.0     50     53.3
Subtotl Advisory Services                        1,242.0       837.0       794.0     1.462.5    1,274.7           1,330.0         2,199.0      465.0      9,604.2     5.0   480.2
C. ISiicellaneous
PPF RehninMg                                     251.0       161.1       208.0        19.5      17.0             245.0             70 0        15.5      987.1      5.0    49.4
tnlforsen                                                        -        30.0           -         -               74                 -          -n37.4             50       19
Projed MuaKgemen Unt Costs                           -           -           -          -          -                 -                -         3.0        3.0      5.0      0.2
Subtotal MIhellneous                               251.0       161 1       238.0        19.5      17.0             252.4             700         18.5     1,0275      5.0    51.4
Total Investment Costs                             1,493.0      1,183.9     1,627.0    1,548.2    1,3493            1,726.8         4,1645        4835    13.5762       5.0   678.8
11. Recurrent Costs
Equipment Openrion and Maintenance                  60.0       135.0           -                     -                 -                -        24.0      219.0      5.0    11.0
Operting Costs                                         -       138.5        35.0        10.0         -               6.0                -       114.5      304.0      50      15.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                 60.0       2735         35.0        10.0         -               6.0                -       138.5      523.0      50     262
Total BASELINE COSTS                                1,553.0     1,457 4     1,662.0     1,558.2    1,349.3          1.732 8          4,164 5      622 0    14.099 2     5.0   705 0
Physical Contingencies                              77.7        72.9        83.1        77.9      67.5              866             208 2        31 1      7050         -       -
Prie ContingencIes
Inflatlon
Local                                          171.2       131.7        47 6       107.9     128.2              92 7            203.9       130 5     1,013 7
Foreign                                         32.8        26.2        54 7        62.8      38.7              35 6            138.3        44        393 4
Subtotal Inflation                               204.0       157.8       102.3       170 7     167 0             128 3            342.2       134 9     1,407 1
Devaluation                                     -192.7      -145.6       -61.7      -1105      -141 1           -1149            -2219       -134.3    -1,1227
Subtotal Price Contingencies                        11.3        12.3        40.6        60.2      258               134             1202          0.6      284.4      48     13.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 1,641 9     1,542 5     1.785 7     1t696.3    1.442 6          1,832 8          4,493 0      653 7    15,088 6     48    718.5
Taxes                                              1062         376          40         630       41.3                              362.5         44       6188       4.8    29.5
Foreign Exchange                                   743 4       863 2      1,438 5    1,187 4     763 3            1,224 7         3,076 7        893      9.386 4     4.8   447 0



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Table 1. STA (Technical Secretarat for Adjustment)
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Unit                        Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
Cost    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000          Total     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000         Total
1. Investment Cosbt
A. Consultancies
1. Technical Assistance
Local Consultants in Communication (2)                          -    21.0    21.0         -        -       42.0        -    21.3    21.5          -        -       42.8
Expatiate Consultant - Dev. Economist                           -    100.0       -        -        -      100.0        -    108.3        -        -        -      108.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                     -    121.0    21.0        -        -       142.0       -    129.6    21.5         -        -      151.1
2. Training
Training Abroad                                                 -    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5         250.0        -    67.7    69.4    71.1    72.9          281.1
Training In-country                                             -     22.5    22.5    22.5    22.5         90.0        -    22.8    23.0    23.8    24.6           94.2
Subtotal Training                                                 -    85.0    85.0    85.0    85.0         340.0        -    90.5    92.4    95.0    97.5          375.4
3. Studies                                                        -    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0          160.0       -    42.2    43.0    44.3    45.5          175.0
4. Public lntbrmation Campaigns                               120.0   180.0   150.0   150.0          -      600.0    118.9   182.7   153.3   158.8           -      613.6
Subtotal Consultancies                                          120.0   426.0   296.0   275.0   125.0    1,242.0   118.9   445.0   310.1    298.0   143.0    1,315.0
B. Misce Ibneous
1. PPF refinancing                                            251.0        -       -        -        -      251.0   262.5         -        -        -       -       262.5
Total lnvestment Cost                                             371.0   426.0   296.0   275.0   125.0    1,493.0   381.4   445.0   310.1    298.0   143.0    1,577.5
II. Recunt Coast
A Equipment Operation and Maintenance                     12     12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0           60.0    12.3    12.6    12.8    13.2    13.6           64.4
Total Recurent Co                                                  12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0           60.0    12.3    12.6    12.8    13.2    13.6           84.4
Total                                                              383.0   438.0   308.0   287.0    137.0    1,553.0   393.7   457.6   322.9   311.2   156.6    1,641.9



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Proect
Table 2 Support to the National Institute of Statistics
DotIled Costs
(US$ '000)
Unit                       Base Cost                                    Totals Including Contingencia
Cost    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000        Total     1996    1997    1998    19"        2000      Total
1. Inveot comb
A. Goods
1. VOhkbi
Peugeot (106)                                                   20.39     20.4       -        -       -        -       20.4    21.3        -        -                        21.3
t Out. Equilpnnt
Compuen (w/iranw   & printers)                                     7      21.0       -                                 21.0    21.9                                          21.9
Computers (6 portable, 2 desakopa)                                6.5    52.0        -        -       -        -       52.0    54.2                 -        -               54.2
PriNtes                                                             1     2.0        -        -       -        -        2.0     2.1        -        -       -        -        2.1
Phowcopy & fax machines                                                   24.0       -        -       -        -       24.0    25.0        -        -        -       -       25.0
Cdculaors                                                        0.12      2.4       -        -        -       -        2.4      2.5       -        -        -       -        2.5
Contral Serve                                                     60      60.0       -        -        -       -       60.0    62.5        -        -        -       -       62.5
Subtotl Offi  EquIpment                                                    161.4       -        -        -       -      161.4   168.2        -        -        -       -      168.2
3. Techcl Menus on Ntn Acts. & Bualnea Survey                                4.0    _           -        -       -        4.0      4.2       -        -        -       -        4.2
Subtal Goods                                                                 185.8       -        -        -       -      185.8   193.7        -        -        -       -      193.7
IL Coneufmncke
1. TechnIal Aaelance 
Shot-trm epatlet cosutnts                                                120.0    94.0    28.0    17.0       9.0      268.0   127.1   101.8    31.1    19.3    10.5         289.9
Local Conruatit  (Household Survey)                                       14.8    29.8    29.8    29.8         -      104.2    14.7    30.2    30.4    31.5          -      106.9
Loc ConsAint (Nat Ata.Survey)                                                -     9.8        -        -       -        9.8        -     9.9        -        -       -        9.9
Local Cons. (Conj. Survey)                                                   -    19.5    15.4    15.4    19.4         69.7        -     19.8    15.7    16.3    21.2        73.0
Subtotal Technical Awlebwa                                                 134.8   153.1    73.2    62.2    28.4        451.7   141.8   161.8    77.3    67.2    31.7         479.7
2. Training
Trainig Abroad                                                            38.0    41.4    38.0    41.4    34.0        192.8    40.3    44.8    42.2    47.1    39.7         214.1
Training in-country                                                        3.7     9.0      9.0    16.5    13.7        51.9      3.7     9.1      9.2    17.5    15.0        54.4
Seminars In-country (NatI Acts)                                              -     7.2        -        -       -        7.2        -     7.3        -        -       -        7.3
Subtotal Training                                                           41.7    57.6    47.0    57.9    47.7        251.9    43.9    61.3    51.4    64.6    54.6         275.8
3. Survwys
Busles Cyde Survey                                                        10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0         50.0      9.9    10.2    10.2    10.6    10.9         51.8
Nan sco (pubildihemination surveys)                                          -     5.0        -        -       -        5.0        -     5.1        -        -       -        5.1
Houwehold Survey (PublJianlysis)                                             -    31.7    11.7    20.0    15.0         78.4        -    32.2    12.0    21.2    16.4         81.7
Subtota Survey                                                              10.0    46.7    21 7      30.0    25.0      133.4      9.9    47.4    22.2    31.8    27.3        138.6
Subotl Consuftance                                                           186.5   257.4   1419    1501    101.1        837.0   195.6   270.4   150.8   163.5   113.7         894.1
C. Mieallneous
1. PPF rnfiuncing                                                          161.1       -        -        -       -      161.1   168.5        -        -        -       -      168.5
Tdal lnvetment Cost                                                            533.4   257.4   141.9   150.1   101 1    1,183.9   557.8   270.4   150.8   163.5   113.7    1,256.3
II. Recurrent Conb
A. Equpnwent Operaton and Maintenance
Vehices (Household Survey)                                            1     19.0    19.0    20.0    20.0         -       78.0    19 5      19.9    21.3    22.0         -      82.7
Veicb (Buslns Cyde Survey)                                                   1.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       9.0      1.0     2.1      2.1      2.2      2.3  .    9.7
Office Equipment                                                             8.0    16.0      8.0      8.0     8.0       48.0      8 2     16.8     8.5      8.8     9 0       51.3
SubtotlEqulpnsmeOpertlonandMaintenance                                        28.0    37.0    300       30.0    10.0      135.0    28.7    38.8    32.0    32.9    11.3         143.7
B. Opeating Costs (Household Survey)                                          17.5    54.0    28.0    26.0    13.0        1385      173     54.8    28.6    27.5    14.2        142.5
Total Recurrnt Cnb                                                              45.5    91.0    58.0    56 0       23.0     273.5    46 0      93.6    60.6    60.5    25.5       286.2
Total                                                                          578.9   348.4   199.9   206.1   124.1    1.457 4    603.8   3641    211.4   224.0   139.2    1,542.5



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Table 3. Support to the Depts. of Finance, Budget, Planning & Economy (Budget & Finance Component)
Detiled Costs
(USS '000)
Unit                        Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
Cost    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000          Total     1996    1997    1996       1S99     2000      Total
1. Invrart Costs
k Goods
1. Computsrlaton of the Payroll
tIndidual Workstations                                             9         -   270.0        -        -        -      270.0        -   287.8         -        -        -      287.8
Central Unit                                                      50         -    50.0        -        -        -       50.0        -     533                                   53.3
Subtotal ConmputeiatIon  the Payroll                                           -   320.0        -        -        -      320.0        -   341.1         -        -        -      341.1
2. Cornputerization (SP Pr6vision) - Office Equipment                          -    80.0        -        -        -       60.0        -    63.7         -        -        -       63.7
3. Computerstion of the Treasury                                            50.0   115.0                 -        -      165.0    51.9   122.2                   -        -      174.1
4. Computeration Budgetary Reform                                              -    50.0        -        -        -       50.0        -    53.1                  -        -       53.1
Subtotal Goods                                                                50.0   545.0         -       -        -      595.0    51.9   580.1          -        -        -      632.1
B. Conrulbanchs
1. Technical Assistdan
Short-term ocal cons. (Payroll)                                    1         -     6.0        -        -        -        6.0        -      6.1        -        -        -        6.1
Long-term lcal ta. (Budg.Reformn)                                         12.0    24.0    24.0    12.0                  72.0    11.9    24.4    24.5    12.7            -       73.5
Short-term toreign t.a. (Budg.Reform)                             18         -    54.0        -        -        -       54.0        -    58.5         -        -        -       58.5
Short-tenmformignta.(extemaldebt)                                 18        -    72.0         -        -        -       72.0        -    78.0         -        -        -       78.0
Short-term foreign t.a. (Etab.Publics)                                    20.0    24.0    20.0    20.0    20.0         104.0    21.2    26.0    22.2    22.8    23.3           115.5
Locel Cons. (Etabi.Publics)                                        1       6.0       -        -        -        -        6.0      5.9        -        -        -        -        5.9
Subtotal Tchnkal Assistance                                                 38.0   180.0    44.0    32.0    20.0         314.0    39.0   192.9    46.7    35.5    23.3           337.4
2. Training (Budgetary Reform)                                                 -    160.0   160.0   160.0         -      480.0        -    173.2   177.7   182.1          -      533.0
SubIal Conauftncles                                                           38.0   340.0   204.0   192.0    20.0         794.0    39.0   366.1    224.4   217.6    23.3          870.4
C. Miscellaneous
1. PPF refinancing                                                         208.0       -        -        -        -      208.0   217.5         -        -        -        -      217.5
2. Unallocated Contingencies                                                10.0    10.0    10.0                          30.0     10.1     10.4    10.5                          31.0
Subtal Miscellaneous                                                         218.0    10.0    10.0         -        -       238.0   227.6    10.4    10.5                          248.5
Total lnvesbtmnt Costa                                                         306.0   895.0   214.0   192.0    20.0    1,627.0   318.6   956.6   234.9   217.6    23.3    1,751.0
II. Recurrent Costa
A. Operatng Codst
Budgetary Reform                                                            25.0       -        -        -        -       25.0    24.8         -        -        -        -       24.8
Etablss.Publics                                                             10.0       -        -        -        -       10.0      9.9        -        -        -       -         9.9
Total Recurrent Costa                                                           35.0        -       -        -        -        35.0    34.7        -        -        -        -       34.7
Total                                                                           341.0   895.0   214.0   192.0    20.0    1,662.0   353.3   956.6   234.9   217.6    23.3    1,785.7



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Table 4. Support to the Depts of Finance, Budget. Planning & Economy (Planning & Economy Component)
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Unit                       Base Cost                                    Totals Including Contingencies
Cost    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000        Total     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000         Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Office Equipment (CSP)
Computer (w/printer/sottware)                            7     21.0                                         21.0    22.0         -       -        -               22 0
Photocopy machine                                    10.12     20.2       -        -        -       -       20.2    21.2        -        -        -        -      21 2
Subtotal Office Equipment (CSP)                                  41.2            -            -       -       41.2    43 1         -       -        -        -      43 1
2. Pubikcaons
Publication (r6gulikre) (econ.review)                   5       5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0     5 0       25.0      5 0      5.1     5 1      5.3      5.5      25.9
Subtotal Goods                                                     46.2      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      66.2    48.1       5 1     5.1      5.3      5 5      69.0
B. Consulbnces
1. Technical Assibnce
Longterm Local Consultant (PIP/PEP)                      1      6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0       6.0       48.0      5.9    12.2    12.3    12.7        6.6      49 6
Short-term local consultant (Form.)                      1        -     12.0       -        -       -       12.0        -    12.2        -        -        -      12.2
Short-term Foreign Cons. (Form.)
Caonltant (Audit)                                       18    36.0        -        -        -       -       36.0    38 1         -       -        -        -      38.1
Short-term foreign t.a. (sectoral strat.)              18         -    54.0    54.0         -       -      108.0        -    585      60.0        -        -     118.4
Short-term foreign t.a. (PIP/PEP)                              40.0    52.0    50 0         -       -      142.0    42.4    56.3    55.5                         154.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                    82.0   130.0   116.0    12.0       6.0      346.0    86.5   139.1   127.7    12.7         6.6     372.6
2. Training
Oversees Training (CSP)                                         6.5    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0         66.5      6 9     16 2    16 7     17.1    17.5       74.4
Overseas Training (PIP/PEP)                                    10.0    22.5    22.5    22.5    22.5        100.0    10.6    24.4    25.0    25.6    26.2         111.8
Subtotal TmIning                                                 16.5    37.5    37.5    37.5    37.5        166.5    17 5      40.6    41.6    42.7    43.7       186.2
3. Studies
Proect Study Fund                                              50.0   225.0   225.0   225.0   225.0        950.0    51 7    238.0   242.5   249.5   256.4    1,038.1
Subtotal Corsuttancies                                            148.5   392 5    378.5   274.5   268.5    1,462.5   155.7   417.8   411.9   304.9   306 7    1,596.9
C. Miscellaneous
1. PPF refinancing                                               19.5       -        -        -       -       19 5     20.4       -        -        -       -       20.4
Total Investment Costs                                              214.2   397.5   383.5   279.5   273.5    1,548.2   224.1   422.8   417.0   310.2   312.2    1,686.3
II. Recurfent Costs
A Operabtng Costs                                                   5 0      5.0       -        -        -      10.0      5.0      5 1       . -               -       10.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                 5.0      5.0       -        .        -      10.0      5.0      5.1       -                 -       10.0
Total                                                               219.2   402.5   383.5   279.5   273.5    1,558.2   229.1   427.9   417.0   310.2   312.2    1,696.3



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Table 4. Support to the Depts. of Finance, Budget, Planning & Economy (Planning & Economy Component)
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Unit                         Base Cost                                      Totals Including Contingencies
Cost    1996      1997     1998     1999    2000       Total      1996     1997     1998     1999    2000       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Office Equipment (CSP)
Computer (wlprinterlsoftware)                              7      21.0        -        -        -        -       21.0     22.0         -                                  22.0
Photocopy machine                                       10.12     20.2        -        -        -        -       20.2    21.2          -        -        -        -       21.2
Subtotal Ofice Equipment(CSP)                                       41.2        -        -        -        -        41.2     43.1        -        -        -        -       43.1
2. Publications
Publication (r6guliere) (econ.review)                      5       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       25.0       5.0      5.1      5.1      5.3      5.5       25.9
Subtotal Goods                                                        46.2      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       66.2     48.1      5.1      5.1      5.3       5.5       69.0
B. Consulbncies
1. Technical Assistance
Long-term Local Consultant (PIP/PEP)                       1       6.0     12.0     12.0     12.0      6.0       48.0       5.9     12.2     12.3     12.7      6.6       49.6
Short-term local consultant (Form.)                        1         -     12.0        -        -        -        12.0        -     12.2        -        -        -        12.2
Short-term Foreign Cons. (Form.)
Consultant (Audit)                                        18      36.0        -        -        -        -       36.0      38.1        -        -                         38.1
Short-term foreign ta. (sectoral strat.)                  18         -     54.0     54.0        -        -       108.0        -     58.5     60.0        -        -      118.4
Short-term foreign ta. (PIP/PEP)                                  40.0     52.0     50.0                         142.0     42.4     56.3     55.5        -               154.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                       82.0    130.0    116.0     12.0      6.0       346.0     86.5    139.1    127.7     12.7      6.6      372.6
2. Training
Overseas Training (CSP)                                            6.5     15.0     15.0     15.0     15.0       66.5       6.9     16.2     16.7     17.1     17.5       74.4
Overseas Training (PIP/PEP)                                       10.0     22.5     22.5     22.5     22.5       100.0     10.6     24.4     25.0     25.6     26.2      111.8
Subtotal Training                                                   16.5    37.5      37.5     37.5     37.5       166.5     17.5    40.6    41.6       42.7     43.7       186.2
3. Studies
Project Study Fund                                                50.0   225.0    225.0   225.0    225.0        950.0    51.7   238.0    242.5    249.5    256.4    1,038.1
Subtotal Consultancies                                               148.5   392.5    378.5    274.5    268.5    1,462.5    155.7   417.8   411.9    304.9    306.7    1,596.9
C. Miscellaneous
1. PPF refinancing                                                  19.5        -        -        -        -        19.5     20.4        -        -        -        -       20.4
Total Investment Costs                                                 214.2    397.5    383.5    279.5    273.5    1,548.2    224.1    422.8   417.0    310.2    312.2    1,686.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs                                                     5.0      5.0        -         -        -       10.0      5.0      5.1        -        -        -        10.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                    5.0      5.0         -        -        -       10.0      5.0      5.1        -        -         -       10.0
Total                                                                   219.2   402.5    383.5    279.5    273.5    1,558.2    229.1    427.9    417.0    310.2    312.2    1,696.3



Madagasf
Public Management Capacty BuiWdkg Propca
Table 6. Support to CMI Service Reform
Detaled Coats
(USS 'OO)
Untt                       Be Cost                                       Totals Including Contingncls
Cost    19S      1997     IS8   I1f        2000      Total     196      1S97    Ig8      199      2000      Total
1.    -      Costa
A. Good
1. V dhkce
Four-el drive vehics                                                   40     40.0                                          40.0    42.4        -                 -        -       42.4
2. Off0e Equipment
CompAer (wlprwar & softa)                                             7.5      7.5                                           75       7.9                                           7.9
Phlocopy machin                                                     1012      10.1        -        -       -                10.1    10.7        -        -        -        -       10.7
SubOtl Office EquIpment                                                         176         -        -       -                17.6    18.7                                           ' -    -  18.7
SubttGl Goo                                                                       57.6        -        -        -       -       57.6    61.0         -        -       -        -       61.0
B ConslAnlss
1. Tranmng
TrMkg doworkshop focillllrs.m  uu1 ss, tc.                                   10.1        -        -       -        -       10.1    10.0         -       -        -        -       10.0
2. Werfhops
rdhq op Coordrwm (bcid Lt.)                                             1      4.0      8.0        -       -        -       12.0      4.0     8.1        -        -                12.1
Uqhhep Prmpwetmy Pis                                                          17.4                 -       -        -       17.4    17.2         -                -        -       17.2
Fou S8do  AVrkshops (100 p.1 t)                                                  -    6.0                                   60.0        -    61.0                 -                61.0
Sk RaglanI WYrk*hn (300 prtisls)                                                      115.2        -       -        -      115.2             116.9                                 116.9
Two Nml  Workso (45 pwbdpu*)                                                     -    60.0         -       -        -       60.0              61.0       -                         61.0
Sb   Woaxhops                                                                   21.4   243.2         -       -        -      264.6    21.2   247.0                  -        -      288.2
S. Stba
Sais on A laIM, Educiton, AgriiAe A Pubic Works                              130.0                -        -        -      130.0   136.8        -        -        -        -      136.8
4. PUI AcdvIle
kb xn Furd                                                                       -   270.0   200.0   200.0   200.0         870.0        -   285.0    215.   221.3    227.5        948.8
Subbla Ceraiclm                                                                  161.5   513.2   200.0   200.0   200.0    1,274.7   168.1   532.0   215.0   221.3   227.5   11363.8
C. MS5cdIwmeO
1. PPF.shmi                                                                     17.0        -                         -       17.0    17.8              -           -                17.8
Totl      tCost                                                                    238.1    513.2   200.0   200.0   200.0    1,349.3   248.9   532.0   215.0   221.3   227.5    1.442.6
L Asaunwnt Cosb
Totcl                                                                               236.1    513.2   200.0   200.0   200.0    1.349.3   246.9   532.0   215.0   221.3   227.5    1.442.6



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Table 7. LegalJudiciary Reform
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Unit                            Base Cost                                         Totals Including Contingencies
Cost    1996      1997       1998      1999    2000       Total     1996      1997       1998      19t      2000      Totl
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Offce Equipment
Compute (wipnenter & software)                                          230.0      187.5          -        -        -      417.5   243.7       203.0          -        -        -      446.7
PhoIooopy machine                                                 12    108.0       60.0          -        -        -      168.0   114.4        65.0          -        -       -       179.4
Subtl Offce Equipment                                                     338.0      247.5          -        -        -      585.5   358.1       268.0          -        -        -      626.1
B. Books
La*wbols for 3 libraries                                                      -      400.0      400.0        -        -      800.0        -      433.1      444.2        -        -      877.3
PublicationoLegalTexts                                                     30.0      150.0       50.0    80.0    50.0        360.0    29.7       152.3       51.1    84.7    54.7        372.4
Teeching aldeu/merials (School ot Magistr.)                                150.0         -          -        -        -      150.0   158.9           -          -        -        -      158.9
Subtotl Books                                                                180.0      550.0     450.0    80.0    50.0    1,310.0   188.6         585.4      495.2    84.7    54.7    1,408.6
C. Consuhances
LocalCons.(Inventory/revision of texts) (10 people)               0.75     60.0      120.0          -        -        -      180.0    59.5       121.8          -        -        -      181.3
Local Cons. (Etude d'arbitrage)                                   0.75        -        9.0          -        -        -        9.0        -        9.1          -        -        -        9.1
Short-term freign t.a.                                              20     40.0      140.0      140.0   140.0   140.0        600.0    42.1       150.6      154.2   158.2   162.3        667.5
Long-term foreign t.a. (School)                                     18        -      432.0      360.0   324.0         -    1,116.0        -      464.8      396.6   366.2         -    1,227.6
Long4erm local t.a. (School)                                                  -       12.0       11.0    11.0    11.0         45.0        -       12.2       11.2    11.6    12.0         47.1
Trahihng Expenses (200 magistMtes)                                         29.0      150.0       70.0        -        -      249.0    28.7       152.3       71.5        -        -      252.5
Subtotal Consulancies                                                        129.0     863.0      581.0   475.0   151.0    2,199.0   130.3         910.9      633.5   536.1    174.3    2,385.1
D. Mscellaneous
1. PPF rehiacing                                                           70.0          -          -        -        -       70.0    73.2           -          -        -        -       73.2
Total                                                                          717.0    1,660.5    1,031.0   555.0   201.0    4,164.5   750.2    1,764.2    1,128.8   620.7   229.0    4,493.0



Madagascar
Public Management Capacity Building Project
Table 8 Project Management Unit
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Unit                        Base Cost                                   Totals Including Contingencies
Cost    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total    1996         1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
1. Investment Codst
A. Consultncies
Proect Director                                           2.75      8.3     33.0    33.0    33.0       33.0   140.3      8 2     33.5    33 7      34.9    36.1   146.4
Procurement Coordinator                                   0.94      2.8     11.3    113       11.3     113     479       2.8     114      11.5    11.9    123        50.0
Procurement Assistant                                     0.35      1.1      4.2      4.2      4.2      42      17.9     1 0      4.3      43       44       4.6    18.6
Supervision Coordinator                                   0.43      1.3      5.2      5 2      5.2      5 2    21 9      1.3      5 2      5.3      5.5      5.6    22.9
Proet Accountant                                          0.58      1 7      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0    29.6      1 7      7.1      7 1      74       7.6    30.9
ProjectAccountantAssistant                                035       1.1      4.2      4.2      4.2      42      17.9     1.0      43       4.3      44       4.6    18.6
Supply/Finances Asst.                                      0.8      2.4      9.6      9.6      9.6      9.6    40.8      2 4      9.7      9.8    10.2    10.5    42.6
Secretariat Services                                      0.29      0.9      3.5      3 5      3.5      3 5     14 8     0.9      3.5      3.6      3 7      3 8     15.4
Other Staff (janitor, guards, chauffeurs)                 0.47      1.4      5.6      5.6      5.6      5 6    24.0      1 4      5.7      5.8      6 0      6.2    25 0
Audit of Prject Accounts (annual & quarterty)               22     22.0     22.0    220       22.0     220    110.0    22.6      23.2    23.6    24.3    24.9   118.5
Subtotal Consultanclas                                               42.9    1055    105.5   105.5   105.5   465.0    43.3    1079    1089    1127    116.3   489.1
B. Training
Training abroed & bi-annual meetings                                0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6      0 6      3.0     0 6      0.6      0.6      0 6      0.7      3.2
C. MIscellaneous
1. PPF refinancing                                                 15.5                                        15.5    16.2         -                 -        -     16.2
Total Investment Costs                                                 59.0   106.1   106.1   106.1    106.1   483.5    60.2    1085    109.5   113.3   116.9   508.5
II. Recurrent Codst
Vehicle operating costmaintenance                                     1.2      5.7      5.7      5.7      5.7    24.0       1.2      5 9     6.0      6.2      6.4    25.6
Office Rent, Water & Eedricity expenses                               3.3     15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8    66.5         3.3      16.0    16.1    16.7    17.3    69.4
Office materials                                                      1.1      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0    21.0       1 0     5.1      5.1      53       5.5    21.9
Insurance (cars, etc.)                                                1.3      6.4      6.4      6.4      6.4    27.0      1.3      6.5      6.6      6.8      7.0    28.2
Total Recurrent Costa                                                   6.9     32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9   138.5         6.8     33.5    33.8    35.0    36.1   145.2
Total                                                                   65.9    139.0   139.0   139.0   139.0   622 0        67.0   142.1   143.3   148.3   153.1   653.7






Activity                                  Cost         IDA           Procurement    Years
US$'OOO     financing     Method
Workshops (Civil Service Reform)
*  Workshop preparatory phase                    17.2          12.9        SS         1996
*  6 Regional Workshops (300 participants)      116.9         87.7         SS         1997
*  4 Sectoral Workshops (100 participants)       61.0         45.8         SS         1997
*  2 National Workshop (45 participants)         61.0         45.7         SS         1997
SL: Short List
SS: Direct Contracting
NCB: National Competitive Bidding






MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Annex A
Declaration of Government Strategy for Public Sector Reform



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
D-ECLARATION OF GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
FOR PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Introduction
I .    The Government of Madagascar views the modernization and strengthening of government
services as one of the cornerstones of its action program. The success of its economic development
program largely depends on the successful adaptation of government services to the new role of the
State. Henceforth, the State will concentrate on its essential functions and devote the bulk of its
efforts to such priorities as poverty alleviation, primary health care, primary education, domestic
security, and infrastructure maintenance. It will a'3andon its role as economic agent and will cease
to wield heavy-handed control over private economic activity.
2.    The purpose of the Public Management Capacity Building Project is to support this new
approach. The general objectives of this project are as follows:
. Modernize the government agencies by improving their organization, strengthening
their technical capacities, and developing their human resources, thereby enabling them
to effectively provide essential public services and support the country's development
process.
*  Strengthen capacities for formulating, analyzing, implementing, and communicating the
Government's economic development strategy, by developing the institutional capacity
of the units responsible for economic affairs, and by strengthening the economic and
social information system.
*  Improve the use of public resources by developing a transparent and efficient system of
public expenditure management that will facilitate resource mobilization to support the
essential functions of the State.
* Modernize the legal system and reform the judicial system, to create a climate of
confidence and an environment favorable to private investment, and to establish
conditions conducive to good governance.
*  Strengthen the democratic process and deepen popular involvement in development
activities through institutional capacity building within the decentralized authorities,
enabling them to manage themselves and to fully assume the responsibilities conferred
upon them by the Constitution.



11.   Context of the reform
3.    The public sector reform project is taking place within the context of an economic
development program formulated by the Government in its draft medium-tern Policy Framework
Paper. The principal thrusts of this program are: (a) liberalization of the economy; (b) good
macroeconomic management; (c) strengthening of human resource capacities; (d) openness to the
world economy; (e) private sector development; and (f) the alleviation of poverty.  Poverty
alleviation is the Government's number one priority, which it will aim to achieve both through
implementation of a strategy for a high and sustainable level of economic growth, and through the
development of specific and targeted actions in the areas of health, education, and rural
infrastructure development. The effectiveness and success of structural reforms will largely depend
on the implementing capacities of the public authorities themselves.
III.   Specific objectives and actions planned
1. Strengthening of economic management
4.    It is essential to strengthen the Government's capacity to prepare and formulate economic
strategies and analyze their impact so that it can better shape its economic policy instruments and
adjust them to the real needs of the economy while developing dialogue and consultation with the
economic agents and the population at large. The specific objectives of this component are:
*  strengthen the capacity to formulate economic reform programs and monitor their
implementation;
* improve communications concerning economic strategy both within the government
and with the public;
* restructure the national accounts and the statistical system in order to provide the
necessary information for management of the economy and of the reform programs.
Action to achieve these objectives will include strengthening of the Technical Secretariat
for Adjustment (STA) and the National Institute of Statistics (INSTAT).
A.    Implementation of economic reforms
5.    STA component. This covers efforts to reach a nationwide consensus, and the preparation,
coordination and monitoring of adjustment measures. The STA will be playing a more and more
important role as coordinator and facilitator in the formulation and monitoring of economic and
sector policies, with the active support of the two committees already associated with it: the
Comite de Reformes Macro-economiques et Financieres (COREMEF) and the Comite de Reformes
Sectorielles (CORES).  In addition, the Groupe  Technique de Travail de l'Initiative



Transfrontaliere will be reconstituted as a third committee of the STA, to be responsible for the
regional dimension of adjustment.
6.    The holding of regular meetings, exchanges of information, and sensitization of the
population to the economic reforns are all key indicators for an evaluation of the outcomes of this
component. By the end of November 1995, the Government intends to have prepared a plan for a
communications strategy within the framework of a national communications seminar. It also
plans, by February 1996, to have short brochures published concerning the adjustment program, for
distribution to the public at large.
B.    Development of the National Institute of Statistics (INSTAT)
7.    INSTAT will improve the production and availability of reliable data to expedite economic
policy choices, evaluation of the results of the reforms, and any necessary corrections.
8.    With respect to the national accounts, the objective is to strengthen INSTAT's institutional
capacities to produce those accounts on a regular basis. The first goal is the preparation of the
1993/1994 base accounts, from which aggregated/light annual accounts can be prepared at short
notice. The Government confirms its commitment to produce, by April 1996, the semi-definitive
national accounts for the period 1993/94, and, by December 1996, a methodology for establishing
simplified accounts.
9.    The results of the analytical surveys of household living conditions will serve as a basis for
a number of analytical workshops, some of which will be entrusted with preparing a social
accounting matrix. To monitor changes in living conditions over time and improve knowledge of
the poverty profile, INSTAT will start in 1997 to carry out two-year permanent or more selective
priority surveys. It will undertake each year, at appropriate intervals, to publish social indicators as
a basis for assessment of the impacts of the Structural Adjustment Program.
10.   Where conjunctural surveys are concerned, these will be carried out two or three times a
year by a permanent team to be set up by [NSTAT in 1996.
C.    Financial and planning units
11.   The Government intends to improve its efficiency, thereby arresting the deterioration of the
public services, while also curbing government spending. Where the financial and planning units
are concerned, expenditure programming and budgeting are two aspects desperately in need of
overhaul. It is vital to ensure the highest possible return on government spending, while channeling
that spending toward priorities, chief among these being poverty alleviation.
12.   The principal objectives are:
(i)   increase transparency and rationality in the allocation and use of budgetary sources;



(ii)   assist the authorities to determine priority expenditures and to effect tradeoffs at
both the intersectoral and the intrasectoral levels;
(iii)  improve the programming, execution and monitoring of public expenditure;
(iv)  improve the efficiency  of the Treasury  in order to  strengthen  budget
implementation, assist with the preparation of periodic public expenditure indicator
tables, and improve management of the public debt;
(v)   review the methods of management of the autonomous agencies to ensure that their
operations and management are more transparent and more consistent with
budgetary priorities;
(vi)  streamline the financial management of civil service staffs.
13.   The following steps will be taken to facilitate all necessary change:
(i)    The Direction Generale du Plan will carry out supplementary analyses to
determine whether the proposed projects are consistent with sectoral, regional and
national economic strategies, whether they have any impact on budgetary
equilibrium, and whether they are geared to the achievement of priority goals.
(ii)   The Direction des Investissements Publics and the sectoral ministries will
improve sector policy design, expenditure management, implementation of the PIP
and PEPs, and financial and physical monitoring of the PIP. In 1996, four
ministries (Agriculture, Urban Development, Education and Health) will receive
assistance to review expenditures in order to determine their consistency with sector
policies and to decide on the allocation of operational. investment, and recurrent
expenditures in the 1997 budget. The other ministries are slated to receive similar
assistance in 1997.
(iii)   The Direction de l'Evaluation Economique, which in particular supervises the
Comite de Suivi des Projets, will improve its capacity to monitor project
implementation, enabling it to cover all large projects (over US$ 10 million) by
1997.
(iv)  It will collaborate with INSTAT in designing and preparing a quarterly publication
containing economic data and information concerning investment projects.
(v)   The economic and planning departments will need to be reorganized in order to
streamline human resource allocation and improve coordination with the finance
and budget departments.



(vi)   The Direction du Budget will (a) improve the establishment and implementation of
the public expenditure program and the monitoring of budget execution, to ensure
that sector strategies are implemented within the constraints of the macroeconomic
framework; and (b) undertake an audit of the autonomous public agencies for the
purpose of making their operations and management more transparent.
(vii)  The Direction GCtnirale du Tresor will improve the efficiency of its organization
and personnel, strengthen budget execution, draw up periodic public expenditure
indicator tables, and improve management of the public debt. A Treasury audit will
be performed for this purpose.
(viii)  Starting in 1997, the Direction de la Gestion Financiere du Personnel de l'Etat
will introduce an efficient system of personnel financial management based on
improved and simplified payroll processing and management procedures, thereby
facilitating greater control over the wage bill and providing an overview of the
principal data concerning civil service expenditures.
2. Strengthening of governance
A.    Civil service reform
14.   The Government has decided to reform the civil service, with the following objectives:
(i)    adapt human resource management to the new role of the State resulting from
privatization and decentralization, and to its new organization resulting from
deconcentration;
(ii)   provide efficient public services and boost civil servant performance through a
system  of rewards and sanctions in the areas of career management and
compensation:
(iii)  ensure participation by central government workers in the regional planning policy
[politique d'amenagement du territoire] by seeing that they are evenly allocated
throughout the country;
(iv)   enforce observance of the principles of political neutrality and public morality in the
recruitment and management of civil servants and with respect to their behavior.
15.   For reasons of efficiency, the Government intends to obtain comments and opinions from
the administrative hierarchy, from representatives of government staffs, and from users,- concerning
the content of its proposed policy guidelines and the modalities of their implementation.
16.   It will proceed to a three-phase course of action:



(a)    Definition by the Government of the principal thrusts of civil service reform.
(b)    Strengthening of the consultation process through:
* a study of each of two pilot ministries (Health and Education)
* a series of national, sectoral and regional workshops designed to inform
participants of the Government's policy guidelines and to obtain their specific
proposals and, if possible, their adherence.
(c)    Definition, following completion of the studies and the national wrap-up seminar, of
the legal and technical content of the reform, and submission to Parliament of those matters that
concern it.
B.    Decentralization
17.   To deepen democracy and establish more effective conditions within which to satisfy
local needs. the Constitution makes provision for decentralization, a principle whose application
will curb the role of the State, enable reductions in budgetary allocations and central government
staffing, and thus deepen democracy.
18.   With respect to those responsibilities that are to be retained by the State, the Government
will apply the principle of deconcentration, thereby shortening the decision-making process.
19.    Decentralization and deconcentration will be implemented in a coordinated and progressive
manner.
20.   In so doing, the Government aims to achieve a fourfold goal:
(i)    Given the extent of the needs that it will still have to fuifill, and given the budgetary
situation, decentralization and deconcentration will have to be implemented at zero
cost to the State budget.
(ii)    The decentralized local governments will need to have access to resources
consistent with their new responsibilities. Consequently, as the State hands over its
various responsibilities, it will also transfer the resources formerly available to it to
finance the functions concerned. It also believes it is necessary to improve the
effective yield of approved local taxes.
(iii)  In practice. responsibilities and the corresponding resources need to be clearly
distributed between the State and each level of local government, both for
operational reasons and to ensure a transparent democratic process.



(iv)   The principles of decentralization and deconcentration need to be very clearly
stated. In particular, no new regional units of the central government should be
created, even if that was formnerly intended as part of the transfer of responsibilities
already or about to be transferred to the local authorities: Instead, any existing units
should be eliminated once the responsibilities have been effectively transferred to
the local authorities.
21.    To this end, the Government envisions a three-pronged approach, whose facets are closely
intertwined:
(i)    A  series of studies on the allocation and clarification of responsibilities, the
deconcentration of units and functions, local taxation, the instruments of a modem
and efficient local government, and human resource management within the local
authorities. Such studies need to form a coherent whole and include an overview
and evaluation of the first phase, that of decentralization to the communes. It is
essential that the Government have access to this overview and evaluation before it
goes on to the later stages of decentralization to the other local government levels.
(ii)    Training of local government staffs in higher-level positions, since the rules and
principles of good management will obviously have no effect if those applying them
are not fully familiar with them.
(iii)   Six pilot operations in urban communes with significant fiscal potential; this action
will not only support the operations of those communes themselves, but also,
through its demonstration effect, be of assistance to the other communes.
22.    The Government will take the following steps:
(i)    It will ensure the system's cohesion by expanding the role of the committee of
experts on effective decentralization to include issues of deconcentration, will make
the committee's prior opinion a mandatory requirement, and review the committee's
composition in light of its expanded role. Those decisions will be taken by decree
and set down in a letter of mission from the Prime Minister to the committee
chairman.
(ii)   It will create a local finance commission bringing together local elected local
officials and representatives of the government services to ensure the transparency
of transfers of responsibilities and resources and exchanges of information.



C.    Reform of the legal system and of business law
23.   The adoption of a new policy to liberalize the economic system has focused attention on the
importance of the legal and judicial framework affecting the business sector. A number of studies
and seminars have been conducted concerning the legislation in this area.
24.   Those studies and seminars have revealed that a large part of the applicable legislation is
outdated, going back as far as the colonial period. Some of the legislative texts have never been
reformed, and are consequently unsuited to present-day circumstances. Others were amended or
revised through the addition of certain provisions subsequent to independence.  Even so. no
systematic effort was made to coordinate those new provisions with the old ones.
25.   Despite the importance assigned by the Constitution to independence of the judiciary, in
several areas the institutions involved in that branch have little credibility. This is because of the
persistent neglect of the legislative provisions in those particular areas. and also because of the
Government's long-standing role as sole arbiter of the country's economic activities.
26.   Within the context of its policy aiming to stimulate initiative and promote the private sector,
the Government intends to adopt all necessary measures to rehabilitate the appropriate legal and
judicial institutions and restore their credibility. Among those measures, the Government is firmly
resolved to make available to the Ministry of Justice and the judicial institutions the resources
essential to the achievement of their objectives.
27.   To this end, the Government has already set up a business law reform commission to
supervise and coordinate the legislative drafting process. This commission will be working in
liaison with the Ministry of Justice and the other ministries concerned, with a view to the
preparation of new laws and regulations. The commission and the Ministry of Justice will together
draw up a five-year timetable for business law reform. The primary focus will be reform of the
investment credit law, involving a radical overhaul of commercial securities and publicity, of
company and business group law, of land law and labor law, and of the rules of bankruptcy and
procedures governing court supervised restructuring of companies. Faced with the tasks of
implementing legal reforms and drafting new legislation, the Ministrv of Justice will need to hire
additional staff and take on consultants to meet its necessary complement of human resources, and
will also need to have access to the requisite material resources.
28.   To improve the prestige and restore the credibility of the judicial institutions, a special effort
will be made to improve the working conditions, environment, and material resources of those
employed within the judicial system. To this end, the Government undertakes both to ensure their
independence and freedom of activity and to protect them against arbitrary professional sanctions.
29.   Upgrading of the status of judges and improvement of their work environment also depend
on the availability of material resources. A study of the material circumstances and incomes of the
country's judges should be conducted without delay. In the meantime, a measure to substantially



increase the housing allowance of those judges who are not provided with government housing will
take effect on January 1, 1996.
30.   The wheels of justice generally grind very slowly, a fact that tends to discredit the judicial
system. To encourage judges to be diligent, the Government intends to introduce a performance
bonus, to be awarded on the basis of clearly defined criteria. Application of those criteria should
provide the necessary incentive for courts to improve upon their performance..
31.   As part of the effort to promote and modernize the judicial system, new facilities and new
resources will be granted to make library facilities available to the judges, whether they be trial
judges or magistrates attached to the Ministry of Justice. [magistrats du siege et du parquet]. A
law review will also be established, which will periodically publish the principal court decisions
and the principal laws and decrees that have recently been enacted, together with comments by
legal scholars or theorists.
32.   In addition, every possible effort will be made to improve the operation of the courts, in
such areas as exchanges of pleadings [mise en etat des affaires] and summary proceedings in cases
of urgency [uridiction des referes qui statue sur les cas d'urgence]. Measures will also be taken to
lessen the difficulties of enforcement of court decisions. To that end, a study will be conducted
with a view to modifying the laws applicable to those areas within the framework of a new judicial
procedure.  This study will focus in particular on the advisability of eliminating the taxe
proportionnelle, one of the main reasons for the excessively slow process of enforcement of court
decisions. Lastly, a school for judges will be established [Ecole de la Magistrature], to facilitate
the hiring and training of new judges. This school will also provide conhinuing training for existing
judges and court officials (targeting clerks of the court in particular). The Government undertakes
to provide the school with the necessary resources to ensure its sustained and continuing operation.
IV.   Organizational and institutional aspects
33.   The Government attaches the greatest importance to the success of the institutional reform
and public sector capacity building project. It therefore finds it essential to set up a system that will
ensure the coordination and efficient management of the project, both overall and where each
individual component is concerned. The project comes under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance and Budget, who will appoint a General Project Coordinator to ensure that its
implementation adheres to the Government's guidelines. Each of the seven components will come
under the auspices of the ministry concerned, and will be coordinated by a senior official appointed
for the purpose, who will be responsible for its implementation. The Government will entrust the
project's financial management to a Project Unit managed by a Project Director, to coordinate
procurement, disbursements, accounts, and auditing.



VI.   Conclusion
34.   The public sector reform and capacity building project is consistent with the Government's
economic program and will support the Government's efforts to restructure the public sector and to
endow it with the dynamism and efficiency essential to the success of the economic reform
program and of the strategy to boost the country's economic development.
35.   The project will contribute to capacity building of the capacity within both the central and
the decentralized local governments, rendering them more capable of performing their respective
functions and of ensuring greater participation by the people and the communities in the preparation
and implementation of development strategies.
The Prime Minister



I



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Annex B
Supervision Plan






Annex B
Supervision Plan
Activity            Source                            Staff   Mission
Hqs
1996          Procurement         Project management (AF3C2)            6.0       3.0
Semester I    Review of            Lawyer (LEGAF)                       1.0        3.0
activities' progress    Technical Dept. (AFR)             2.0       3.0
Resident Mission                       -        3.0
Procurement/Disbursemnent staff        -        3.0
1997          Procurement         Project management (AF3C2)            3.0       3.0
Semester I    Review of            Lawyer (LEGAF)                       1.0        3.0
activities' progress    Resident Mission                    -       2.0
1997          Procurement         Project management (AF3C2)            3.0        3.0
Semester 2    Review of            Technical Dept. (AFR)                1.0        3.0
activities'progress    Resident Mission                     -       2.0
1998          Review of           Project management (AF3C2)            2.0       3.0
Semester I    activities' progress    Resident Mission                    -        2.0
1998          Mid-term review     Projet management (AF3C2)             2.0       2.0
Semester 2    Review of            Resident Mission                       -        2.0
activities' progress    Lawyer (LEGAF)                    1.0       2.0
Technical Dept. (AFR)                1.0        2.0
Proc./Disb. staff                    1.0         -
1999          Review of           Project management (AF3C2)            3.0       3.0
Semester I    activities' progress    Resident Mission                    -        2.0
1999          Review of           Project management (AF3C2)            2.0       2.0
Semester 2    activities' progress    Resident Mission                    -        2.0
Lawyer (LEGAF)                       1.0       2.0
Technical Dept. (AFR)                1.0       2.0
2000          Review of            Project management (AF3C2)           3.0        3.0
Semester I    activities'progress    Resident mission                     -        2.0
2000          Review of            Project management (AF3C2)           2.0        2.0
Semester 2    activities' progress    Resident mission                    -        2.0
Lawyer (LEGAF)                       1.0       2.0
Technical Dept. (AFR)                1.0        2.0
TOTAL                                                                  38.0       70.0









I






IMAGING
Report No: lT        6774 MAG
Type: *U
fA A'



