                  Document of
                The World Bank




                                               Report No: 26193

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (PPFI-P9190; PPFI-P9191; IDA-29110)

                      ON A

                     CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.6 MILLION

                     TO THE

           REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                      FOR A

PUBLIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                   June 27, 2003

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                        Currency Unit = Malagasy Francs
                                        Mgf 6,055.93 = US$ 1.00
                                       US$ 0.000165 =        =Mgf 1.00

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1    December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EMSAP   Economic Management and Social Actions Project
ENMG    Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et de la Greffe
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GoM     Government of Madagascar
HIPC    Highly-Indebted Poor Countries
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
INSTAT  Institut National de la Statistique
Mgf     Malagasy francs
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAIGEP  Projet d'Appui Institutionnel à la Gestion Publique (Public Sector Management and Capacity Building)
PATESP  Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
PEP     Public Expenditure Programs
PIP     Public Investment Progams
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SPPM    Secrétariat Permanent à la Prévision Macroéconomique (Permanent Secretariat for Macroeconomic
        Forecasting)
STA     Secrétariat Technique à l'Ajustemenet (Technical Secretariat for Adjustment)
TA      Technical Assistance
US      United States
US$     United States Dollar




                                     Vice President:        Callisto Madavo
                                  Country Director          Hafez Ghanem
                                    Sector Manager          Philippe Le Houérou
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                 Dieudonné Randriamanampisoa

                                       MADAGASCAR
                               Public Capacity Building Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                          27
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments                                                     38
Annex 10. Table N° 1. Evolution of some Budget indicators                        43
Annex 11. Graph No.1 Communes Revenue: Index of evolution                        44
Annex 12. Table N° 2 Civil and commercial Jurisdictions cases backlog            45
Annex 13. Table N° 3 Criminal Jurisdictions cases backlog                        46

Project ID: P040019                                                      Project Name: Public Capacity Building Project
Team Leader: D. Randriamanampisoa                                        TL Unit: AFTP1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Public Capacity Building Project                         L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9190; PPFI-P9191;
                                                                                                     IDA-29110
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (60%); Law and justice (30%);
                            Sub-national government administration (10%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Macroeconomic management (P); Law reform (P); Judicial and other
                            dispute resolution mechanisms (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/05/1995                                        Effective:
   Appraisal:    04/15/1996                                            MTR:
    Approval:    09/03/1996                                         Closing:

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Philippe H. Le Houerou                         Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:             D. Randriamanampisoa                           Pierre J. Demangel
ICR Primary Author:             D. Randriamanampisoa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in paragraph 18 of the Memorandum of the President (MoP), the objective of the Capacity
Building Project (PAIGEP) project was to assist the Government of Madagascar (GoM) in improving
economic management and addressing selected governance issues in order to encourage private investment,
accelerate growth, and reduce poverty.        1   To accomplish this objective, the project would: (i) contribute to a
more effective government effort to identify, define, implement, and monitor economic policies; (ii) help
enhance the civil service and its capacity to efficiently perform its functions in the wake of the government
redefining its role in the economy as well as the far-reaching, ongoing decentralization process; and (iii)
contribute to a better respect for the "rule of law," improve the security of business transactions through
the independence and increased effectiveness of the judiciary, and support business law reform and
modernization of the judicial system.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised. A mid-term review of the project was carried out in October 1998. It
concluded that the project design needed to be simplified to improve implementation. The content of some
project components was changed, but these revisions did not affect the project objectives (cf Mid-term
evaluation report April 1999).


                                                          Box 1: Context

    Country Background: Madagascar, a potentially rich country, has experienced economic decline and a deterioration of
    public service delivery since its independence in 1960. Among the twenty poorest countries in the world, Madagascar saw
    its per capita GDP decline to less than US$250 in the mid-nineties ­ compared to US$430 in 1960, when the country
    became independent. In 2001, about 70 percent of the population was poor.

    Political instability marked the beginning and end of project implementation. Political instability began in 1991, with
    seven months of national strikes that led to economic paralysis. Although a new, democratically elected government was
    installed, tensions within the government and between government and parliament continued to block the economic reform
    process until the mid-1990s. Political instability also marked the last year of project implementation (2002) as contested
    presidential elections (December 2001) led to a seven-months standoff which led to sharp reductions in trade and
    economic activity. GDP contracted by about 12 percent in 2002.

    Between 1997 to 2001, Madagascar experienced a period of good and robust growth, coinciding with the implementation
    of an ambitious macro- and sectoral reform program supported by the World Bank through the First and Second Structural
    Adjustment Credits, the IMF and the European Commission. But poverty was reduced relatively little during this period
    of high growth. Madagascar's weak public service delivery capacity and continued governance problems are one important
    reason for this. In 2002, the new government, together with the World Bank and other key donors, identified "weak
    governance" as the major bottleneck for the country's development. The new government demonstrated commitment to (i)
    fight corruption, (ii) improve the delivery of public services, and (iii) systematically apply rules and regulations.

    World Bank Strategy: Although designed towards the end of the 1994 strategy cycle, public sector support was an
    important pillar in the Bank's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which centered on creating conditions for private
    sector-led growth. The CAS's main instruments included two adjustment credits which were supported and accompanied
    by two capacity building projects: (i) a private sector support project (PATESP) to back the privatization process and boost
    business confidence; and (ii) this public sector support project (PAIGEP), which focused on economic and public sector
    management.

    After the 2002 crisis, the public sector management and governance agenda gained more prominence in the Bank's
    assistance strategy. The Bank restructured the adjustment credit (September 2002) and a new Interim Country Assistance
    Strategy was presented to the Board (November 2002), which focused on anti-corruption activities, the Mining and the
    Fisheries and Forestry sectors, and on actions to improve financial management ­ and PAIGEP had prepared the ground
    for many of these reforms.



                                                               - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project had six components and 19 sub-components organized under two central themes: (i)   2


strengthening economic management and (ii) strengthening public administration (see Table 1 and Annex
1).

     Strengthening Economic Management:

1. Support to the Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA). Created in March 1995 and directly
                                                                                              3


attached to the Prime Minister, the STA played a crucial role in shaping the reform agenda and pushing for
its timely implementation. The project aimed to enhance the Secretariat's analytical capacity to conduct
economic policy formulation and monitoring, and its ability to coordinate and harmonize the management
of economic reforms. In addition, the project supported the Secretariat's public information campaign on
the adjustment process.

2. Support to the National Statistics Institute (INSTAT). Because information considered vital to assess
poverty trends and economic performance was scant, PAIGEP aimed to help upgrade the capacity of
INSTAT to produce reliable, regular, and updated data on national accounts, household welfare, and
business cycles. This information was intended to inform the public sector as well as the private sector.

3. Support to the Ministries of Finance and Budget as well as Planning and Economy. At the time of
project preparation, two ministries were charged with budget preparation, implementation, and monitoring:
The Ministry of Finance and Budget was responsible for current budget preparation and all budget
execution while the Ministry of Economy and Planning was in charge of preparing the investment budget
and for overall monitoring of Government programs. [In 1998, the Ministry of Finance and Budget itself
was divided; in 2002, the ministries of Finance, Budget and Economy were merged into one ministry].
Regarding the Ministry of Finance and Budget, the project was designed to help implement budget reforms
at the central and regional levels. In turn, these reforms would allow for an accurate picture of how
resources were actually spent. The proposed reforms included ways to achieve better budget formulation
and improved expenditure controls. Regarding the Ministry of Economy and Planning, the project aimed to
support the Directorate for Public Investment's efforts to improve sectoral policy design, expenditure
management, and implementation of the Public Investment Programs (PIPs) and Public Expenditure
Programs (PEPs). PEPs were designed to ensure consistency between sectoral strategies and multi-year
consolidated public expenditure programs.

Strengthening Public Administration:
4. Civil Service Reform. PAIGEP supported the government-led process of redefining Madagascar's civil
service in order to strengthen public administration and to enable it to provide adequate basic public
services to the population. The two main expected outputs were a new statute for civil servants and an
improved organization in select pilot ministries. The responsibility of implementing this component was
with the Ministry of Labor and Civil Service.

5. Decentralization. The project aimed to support the Government's move towards a more decentralized
administration by (i) financing various decentralization studies; (ii) providing information and training to
officials of the new local authorities; and (iii) financing studies on pilot operations for administrative,
financial, and accounting reorganization of communes. At project preparation, the Ministry of Interior
headed this component's implementation. However, following changes in the government structure in 1997,



                                                       - 3 -

this responsibility was transferred to the newly created General Directorate of Development of Autonomous
Provinces and Decentralization.

6. Legal and Judicial Reform. The project supported the development of a new government legal reform
strategy which focused on modernizing the legal system, particularly business and commercial laws, and
restoring the credibility of the judicial system. The project was also designed to finance the publication and
broad dissemination of existing legal texts and establish a school to train judges, magistrates, and other
relevant legal and paralegal staff. The component was prepared and designed in close consultation with
magistrates and other legal and business law experts.

3.4 Revised Components:
As a result of the October 1998 mid-term review, the project was substantially restructured. Its focus was
narrowed to tackle only key areas of reform. Two components and seven sub-components were closed and
others were streamlined. This decision was based on the following factors: (i) the successful
implementation of the adjustment program, (ii) the new constitution adopted in July 1998, (iii) a QAG
Rapid Supervision Assessment (see below), and (iv) changes in the organization of key ministries. The
project restructuring affected each component, with the exception of the Justice and Judicial reform
component (see table 1 for a detailed summary of the restructuring).

The following changes were made:

1. Support to STA. In light of the successful implementation of the first phase of the adjustment program
and the support provided by STA, the mid-term review recommended to add the funds for preparatory work
on adjustment (so-called "study funds"), which were initially managed by the Planning Directorate, to
STA's tasks. These "study funds" were fungible resources available to provide technical support for
adjustment measures, for instance the design of the fishing licensing system.

2. Support to INSTAT. This component was closed because two of the three sub-components (business
cycle and national accounts) had been completed as scheduled. In order to simplify project management the
third sub-component (Poverty monitoring) was transferred to the Ministries of Finance/Budget and
Planning/Economy component.

3. Support to the Ministries of Finance and Budget as well as Planning and Economy. This component
was substantially restructured. Out of the four subcomponents, only the macroeconomic forecasting
sub-component remained unchanged. The support to the General Planning Directorate was discontinued
because the PIP and PEP exercises became immaterial due to the weak role the Ministry of Planning played
after ministerial restructuring. The Budget reform sub-component was merged with the poverty monitoring
task initially executed by INSTAT (see above). Support to the Treasury was reoriented to focus on
computerization instead of institutional reorganization.

4. Civil Service reform: The mid-term review recommended to close this component because political
support, crucial for success, was missing. During the two years of implementation, the authorities failed to
implement ­ or signal willingness to consider ­ the recommendations in the high quality technical studies
produced by the project. During the mid-term review, it was decided that the overall environment was not
deemed ripe for reform.

5. Decentralization: The Government revised its decentralization strategy in 1998 to focus on the newly
created autonomous provinces. Since, additionally, activities in the 12 pilot communes as well as in



                                                      - 4 -

Toamasina province had all been started, the mid-term review led to a closing of the decentralization
component and only initiated activities were to be continued. The training of mayors and local high officials
was dropped, because it was anticipated that the municipal election, scheduled for 1999, would change a
majority of these mayors.

6. Legal and Judicial Reform: unchanged.

    Table 1 - Structure of the project and changes at mid-term review

Objectives            Components                   Sub-Components                         Changes at mid-term review

   Strengthen      1. Support to STA    1) Preparation and technical support for In addition to initial activities, STA received
   Economic                             structural adjustment operations         additional "study funds" to support
  Management                                                                     implementation of the adjustment program
                                        2) Monitoring and evaluation of social   No change
                                        sector budget execution
                                        3) Public information and communication  No change
                   2. Support to        1) Complete update of national accounts  Closed after successful system implementation
                   INSTAT               2) Poverty monitoring through household  Transferred to Component 3
                                        surveys
                                        3) Business cycle monitoring             Closed after successful system implementation
                   3. Support to        1) Establishment of a permanent          No change
                   Ministries of        Secretariat for Macroeconomic
                   Finance/Budget       Forecasting
                   and Planning/        2) Budget reform assistance              In addition to the initial activities, the poverty

                   Economy                                                       monitoring sub-component, initially managed
                                                                                 under the support to INSTAT, was added
                                        3) Reorganization of the Treasury        Instead of a reorganization, activities focused on
                                                                                 computerizing the Treasury chain
                                        4) Support to the General Planning       Closed because of poor performance, study funds
                                        Directorate (PIP, PEP, "study funds")    shifted to STA component
Strengthen Public 4. Civil Service      1) Development of a new civil service    Component to be closed after a national seminar in
 Administration    reform               statute                                  mid-1999
                                        2) Restructuring of pilot ministries     Component to be closed at the of 1999
                                        (Health, Education, Public works,
                                        Agriculture)
                   5. Decentralization  1) Support the transfer of competencies  Closed because of change in government strategy
                                        to decentralized levels of government
                                        2) Training of mayors and other local    Dropped
                                        officials
                                        3) Capacity building and revenue         Future activities were dropped, but ongoing
                                        collection reform in 12 pilot communes   activities were continued
                                        and 1 province
                   6. Legal and         1) Publication of all Laws               No change
                   judicial reform      2) Legislation Reform Program mainly     No change
                                        on existing commercial and business
                                        laws.
                                        3) Training of judges (ENMG)             No change
                                        4) Improving the incentive structure and No change
                                        work environment for judges



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not carry out a Quality at Entry assessment. However, QAG did
a Rapid Supervision Assessment in July 1998, prior to the mid-term review. QAG rated the focus on



                                                        - 5 -

development impact as marginally satisfactory and gave a critical assessment of project design, the
readiness of the project for implementation, and borrower commitment. In particular, QAG noted that the
project was too complex with "multiple and important components under one project umbrella where one
finds it difficult to understand how this project fits with a country conditions of high incidence of poverty
and concentration of wealth."

This ICR also rates the Quality at Entry as marginally satisfactory. The project did respond to the
strategic country context at the time of implementation and it was an important pillar of the Bank's support
to the reform program of the Government. The project also had sufficient flexibility to be adjusted as the
strategic context changed. Yet it is rated only marginally satisfactory because its design was overly
ambitious and complex. This is demonstrated by the need, as identified by the mid-term review, to
restructure the project thoroughly just twenty months after effectiveness.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This ICR rates the achievement of objectives of the project as marginally satisfactory. The project has by
and large achieved its objectives and contributed to the implementation of the Bank's strategy which was
implemented at a time when the Malagasy economy changed substantially, in particular from 1997 to 2001.
In conjunction with the private sector TA operation (PATESP), PAIGEP provided important underpinnings
for economic reforms supported by Second Adjustment Credit, SAC II (Credit No: 3218-MAG). The rating
is only marginally satisfactory because the political commitment was not sufficient and too volatile to
implement the whole reform agenda.

PAIGEP was the first Bank project to directly address governance issues in Madagascar. Although a
previous project did concentrate on capacity building issues (budget reform, poverty monitoring etc.), this
                  5


was the first project aiming at addressing governance reforms comprehensively, including civil service and
justice reform. The sensitivity of these reforms and the resulting complexity of the project are at the root of
PAIGEP's marginal satisfactory outcomes. In particular, the GoM failed to implement the civil service
statute primarily because the far-reaching civil service reform was politically too sensitive.

Economic policymaking. PAIGEP helped to improve economic policymaking, in particular it helped the
GoM to design and implement complex economic reforms. In conjunction with complementary assistance,
PAIGEP thus contributed to an improvement of the general environment for private sector investment and
economic growth. During the period of project implementation, private investment soared, with FDI
increasing from US$14 million in 1997 to US$112 million in 2001. Madagascar experienced consecutive
positive growth rates, reaching 6 percent in 2001 (see Table 2).

Table 2: Improving Growth Performance


                                              1996      1997    1998    1999      2000      2001

    Real GDP growth at market prices          2.1       3.6     3.9     4.7       4.8         5.9
    Private Investment (growth rate)          4.9       6.3     6.9     8.0       8.3        9.7

    Net private FDIs (in million US$)          -         14      16      58       70        112



In addition, budget management was substantially improved as several key budget indicators show: (i)



                                                      - 6 -

effective implementation of the budget was shortened from three months in 1996 to three weeks in 2001;
(ii) budget execution rates increased from 46 percent in 1996 to 65 percent in 2001, and (iii) resources
allocated to social sector increased from 3 percent in 1996 to 4.26 percent in 2001. The implementation of
a new payroll system and completion of a civil servant census in 2001 allowed for the suppression of 906
positions, and resulted in a budget saving of FMG 6 billion. The household and business cycle surveys
carried out by INSTAT reinforced the government's monitoring capacity and permitted to better orientate
the budget towards the goal of fighting poverty (by increasing budget allocation to social sector ­ see Table
1 Annex 9 for details).


Enhancing the performance of the public administration. The project partially achieved its objectives
with respect to reforming the public administration. The main bottleneck remains an insufficiently
organized civil service, which is an area where reform was not supported by many parts of Government.
This is evidenced by the failure to implement a new civil service statute developed with project financing.
However, some lasting improvements have been made in terms of restructuring several line ministries.
Most notably, discharging the Ministries of Agriculture, Transport, and Public Works from daily
operational tasks has allowed them to concentrate more on policy design and reduce their recurrent costs by
laying-off unnecessary staff. In addition, the project's technical assistance to pilot communes resulted in
substantial increases of the communes' revenue performance (70 percent in average).

Improving the "rule of law". The project broadly achieved its objective to improve the legal system and
in this respect the business environment. While corruption and inefficiencies in the judicial system are still
widespread, the project trained a new generation of judges, which will help to change the shape of the
judicial. The compilation of fundamental laws and the training provided by the School of Magistrates and
Clerks have already contributed to a more efficient judicial system. For instance, the backlog of pending
cases in the first instance courts was reduced, during project implementation, by 14 percent for civil cases
and by 21 percent for criminal cases.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Performance varied from component to component. The principal achievements were in the areas of judicial
reform, budget reform, decentralization, and poverty monitoring. The civil service reform component,
however, only succeeded in laying the ground for future operational activities and failed to achieve its
potential development impact. Annex 1 summarizes expected and actual outputs by component, providing
an overview of the project's main achievements.


Strengthening Economic Management:

Support to the Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA). The ICR rates this component as
satisfactory (see Annex 1 for details on implementation). Most of the objectives were achieved and the
activities were largely implemented. The Secretariat produced two Policy Framework Papers, articulating
the complex economic reforms of 1996-1999. The STA also supported the finalization of the PRSP and
the implementation of economic reforms by carrying out 10 surveys and studies (including studies on visa
issues, tourism, fishing licenses, and land tenure) financed out of the "study funds." Since 1996, the
"monthly macro-economic indicators", an STA publications, contributed to economic monitoring. Finally,
the Secretariat played a strategic role in organizing a large public information campaign to explain the
adjustment program. To this end, it issued 10 small publications and held some 12 workshops and public
conferences.

Support to INSTAT. This component is rated as satisfactory (see Annex 1 for details on implementation).



                                                    - 7 -

Support to the statistical institute INSTAT (through financing of surveys and national accounts
preparation) helped the institute to produce core outputs, which now place it in a position to develop and
monitor the future PRSP. These core outputs include:
l National Accounts for 1993 and 1994, which were stored on a CD-ROM to facilitate dissemination. A
    new methodology for elaborating national accounts based on a 1993 United Nations system was also
    developed. Seven national account experts were trained (although only two remain at INSTAT).
l Household Surveys in 1997 and 1999, which allowed for informed poverty analysis that directly fed
    into the PRSP. Results of the surveys were disseminated to the public during workshops held in each
    province capital.
l Business cycle surveys: in total six surveys were carried out. Two of theses surveys were on a
    quarterly basis and four on a bi-annual basis since 1996 (see Annex 1). Twenty staff were trained to
    continue carrying out this kind of survey in the future.

Support to the Ministries of Finance and Budget as well as Planning and Economy. This component is
rated as marginally satisfactory (see Annex 1 for details on implementation). Considerable progress was
made with respect to how public resources are used, simplifying the expenditure circuit, improving
budgetary reporting, and computerizing key budget execution components.

The sub-component on implementing the Permanent Secretariat for Macroeconomic Forecasting (SPPM) is
rated satisfactory. The secretariat was established in July 1996 and existed until the fall of 2002, when it
was integrated into the Economic Directorate of the reorganized Ministry of Finance and Budget. Since its
foundation, the secretariat prepared a good quality macroeconomic framework, used for budget
formulation, IMF program discussions, the PRSP, and an annual macro-economic retrospective review.
The secretariat also assumed a number of other, ad-hoc functions such as the formulation of the HIPC
completion point triggers.

The sub-component implemented by the General Directorate of Treasury is rated satisfactory. The audit of
the treasury was completed in 1998; however, because of the audit's poor quality, its recommendations
were not implemented. It was decided that Treasury operations would be computerized instead of fully
reorganizing the Treasury. The computerization was completed in 2000. As a result, timely information on
budget execution is now available. On budget management, an experimental integrated public finance
management system (bringing together revenue, expenditure, and the accounting framework in a single
holistic system) was successfully implemented in Toamasina. Another important achievement of the
sub-component was the establishment of official public finance accounts. Public finance accounts from
1993 to 1998 have been already published and those for 1999 to 2001 are now reviewed by the supreme
court for approbation. After the suspension of public financial accounts' publication at the end of the
1980s, this new willingness to publish accounts has been perceived by the international community as a
signal of good governance.

Sub-components executed at the General Directorate of Budget are rated satisfactory. A new budget
nomenclature was established, which has allowed for the budget and treasury accounting nomenclatures to
be unified. Thus, it will be possible ­ once computerization is complete -- to compare execution data at
various stages in the expenditure cycle. The partial computerization of the agencies dealing with budget is
the second main achievement of this sub-component. Computerization had a particularly important and
positive impact on civil service wage management. As for the new statute of autonomous agencies, it was
completed but not implemented.

The sub-component executed by the General Directorate of Planning is rated unsatisfactory. Some
improvement in the PIP (consolidation of projects in 2001, improvement of its implementation rate which


                                                     - 8 -

increased from 24 percent in 1996 to 53 percent in 2001) was noticed. But the core objective, to implement
the Public Expenditure Program in all ministries, was not attained. In turn, this failure did not permit to
reach the objective of cutting the overall budget by 2 percent of GDP.

Strengthening Public Administration:

Civil service reform. This component is rated unsatisfactory (see Annex 1 for details on implementation).
After substantial preliminary studies and following the 1999 Toamasina workshop, a good quality draft
statute was prepared. However, political commitment was insufficient and the necessary efforts to explain
the text to different stakeholders (such as trade unions) were not made. As a result, the Senate rejected the
draft statute even though it had already been adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. The lack of strategic
coordination and cooperation within the Government prevented the project team from achieving more
decisive results. One should mention, though, that on the positive side, the component was able to support
the restructuring of the ministries of Agriculture, Public Works, and Transport.

Decentralization. The decentralization component is rated marginally satisfactory (see Annex 1 for details
on implementation). The component suffered from the Government's decision to drastically change its
decentralization strategy in 1998. After 1998, the project was less successful in influencing the
decentralization policy in areas such as competency transfers, budgetary assignments, or the structure of
inter-governmental fiscal relations.

However, most of the planned outputs were achieved and technical work financed by the project had a
tangible impact on the ability of communes to manage and improve their own resources:
l The project financed the development of a number of commune guidelines regarding accounting
    standards. These instruments are now widely used.
l The project demonstrated in 12 pilot communes, that own revenues can be substantially increased at
    the local level. In a sample of seven pilot communes, revenues increased by 70 percent between 1999
    and 2001 (see also Annex 1).

Justice and Judicial Reforms. This component is rated as satisfactory (see Annex 1 for details on
implementation). The primary objectives of the project were attained: modernizing business law, large-scale
publication of existing texts to the profession and the public, improving judicial human resources by the
creation of a school for magistrates and court registrars, and taking steps to make courts more accessible to
the public and more efficient.

The project financed the compilation and publication (in hard copy and CD) of 14 fundamental laws. The
compiled texts were distributed among magistrates in each jurisdiction. Before the project, very few
magistrates possessed texts to perform their daily work and if so, the texts were generally outdated.
Availability of legal texts will enable judges and magistrates to reach their decisions on a legal basis. The
texts are also available to lawyers, university researchers, students, companies, and the public at large.

PAIGEP's major contribution to improving the Malagasy legal system was the establishment of the
National School for Magistrates and Clerks (ENMG). Since it opened its doors in 1996, the ENMG has
trained 108 judges and 179 clerks. The school is also offering professional training to working magistrates.
By the end of the project, 430 magistrates (representing 93 percent of all magistrates in Madagascar) had
received at least one week of continuous training at the school. A majority of clerks (some 583 clerks
representing 82 percent of the clerks assigned in jurisdictions) benefited from training at the school between
1996 and 2002.




                                                      - 9 -

At the end of 1997, after several studies, the government decided to revise some aspects of the magistrates'
working environment. A special statute (different from the general statute of civil service) allowed
government to increase their remuneration, and to grant them travel and housing benefits. A special
performance benefit was also established. The decision combined with actions described above drastically
changed the way in which tribunals work.

This component owes its success to a strong degree of government coordination, the very coordination that
was missing in other areas of the project. The strategy for judicial reform also enjoyed a large amount of
support, based on a consensus about the problems the diagnosis and on the extent of the problems
surrounding Malagasy justice.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's development impact has been substantial. The most important achievements include:
l Improving the functioning of the justice system, in particular through better staffing of courts and
    better training of judges all over the country;
l Strengthening budget institutions and processes;
l Establishing a streamlined unit for economic policy making, modeling, and monitoring;
l Enhancing poverty monitoring capabilities in the national institute of statistics; and
l Strengthening financial management and revenue collection in pilot communes.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During project implementation, Madagascar faced several external shocks. These shocks led to the
approval of two supplemental credits. One credit was in response to the cyclone in August 2000 and the
other to mitigate the effects of a sharp increase of oil prices in December 2000 (see SAC ICR). While these
shocks had a macroeconomic impact, its impact on the implementation of this project is considered
marginal.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation suffered from an unpredictable political environment. Major political changes
included: (i) the adoption of a new constitution in 1998 and (ii) the severe crisis that followed the December
2001 elections. These changes led to fundamental and radical reformulations of the government's
governance strategies and, especially during the 2002 political crisis, to difficulties in the practical
implementation of project activities. For example, between February and June 2002, two competing
governments controlled different parts of the country, which brought project activities to a standstill
because the new government had not gained international recognition. Furthermore, travel to project sites
outside of the capital was virtually impossible.

In addition to these unanticipated political changes, multiple restructurings of key ministries also
hampered project implementation. This was particularly true for the Ministries of Budget and Finance
which were the main focus of this project. At project preparation, there were only two institutions: on one
hand the Ministry of Budget and Finance, and on the other hand the Ministry of Planning and Economy. In
1998, (i) Budget was separated from Finance, merged with competencies over decentralization, and put



                                                     - 10 -

under the supervision of the Vice Prime-Minister; and (ii) the Finance Ministry was merged with the
Ministry of Economy and Planning and put under the authority of the Prime Minister. In October 2002,
four months after the change in government, these ministries were merged into one "super-ministry"
(excluding decentralization).

Finally, the government also failed to nominate a Project Coordinator for the first two years of the
project, which negatively affected the overall implementation of the project. Delays in implementing some
activities (such as the decentralization study and, more broadly, civil service reform) resulted, and given the
complexity of the project, the lack of a permanent coordinator led to deficient monitoring and coordination
among the project components.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
No notable event to report.

5.4 Costs and financing:
IDA financing in U.S. dollars decreased from an initially planned US$13.88 million to US$12.99 million,
due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the SDR. However, the Government's contribution was
increased substantially from US$1.21 million to US$2.53 million, to compensate partially for this exchange
rate loss and to finance additional activities not foreseen at appraisal (such as IT equipment for the budget
reform pilot in Toamasina).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely overall, but varies by component:
l The sustainability of the legal and judicial component and the Ministries of Budget/
    Finance/Planning/Economy component are rated likely. Most of these PAIGEP-supported activities
    have been mainstreamed and will unlikely be reversed, most notably the modernization of laws and
    training of judges. These will undoubtedly strengthen the capacity of the system in the long term. On
    the budget side, the new unified nomenclature, computerized systems, and improved capacity for
    modeling and forecasting are also lasting achievements.
l The support to INSTAT and the decentralization component are rated uncertain. INSTAT now has a
    proven capacity to undertake complex monitoring and data analysis, but financing of these activities
    will continue to depend on external sources. Decentralization achievements (improvement of
    communes' capacity) are limited and fragile; solidifying these achievements will require further
    attention and substantial financing. Currently, the GoM cannot afford such financing and political
    willingness is not certain at this stage;
l The support to reforming the STA and the civil service components are rated unlikely. The future
    status of the Secretariat, as a coordinating unit, is uncertain. The Secretariat has been moved from the
    Prime Minister's office to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget, thereby loosing a significant
    part of it's ability to lead the inter-sectoral coordination of the reform program. On civil service
    reform, the political situation after last year's crisis is still too fragile to permit the GoM to go ahead
    with this delicate and politically sensitive reform.

Although the performance of PAIGEP's components was mixed, the project made substantial progress on
the development objectives and has helped to build a foundation for future governance reforms. PAIGEP,
together with the adjustment credit, has led the Malagasy State to take important steps in reforming its
economy, disengaging from key industries, supporting private sector investment, and ensuring better
governance. Public financial management reforms, including the fight against corruption at customs and
expenditure management, have been elevated and are now top government priorities.


                                                       - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The new authorities have embarked on ambitious governance reforms, many of which (such as the
anti-corruption initiatives) go beyond the scope of PAIGEP. Based on the new government's program, the
Bank is preparing a new governance support project with a strong focus on budget management. This new
project will be a cornerstone of the upcoming CAS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at project preparation is rated satisfactory. Coming at the eve of a substantial economic
reform process, the project responded to the numerous capacity building needs of an administration which
had not invested in its own economic management capacity since the mid-seventies. The project was well
integrated into the 1997 CAS (report No 16249-MAG of January 1997), and was one of the central pieces
of Bank intervention in Madagascar since it was coupled with the Second Structural Adjustment credit and
the Private Sector Development Project PATESP (Credit Number 2956-MAG in 1998).

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance for supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision of such a complex project was difficult
and required frequent missions. The Bank devoted the time necessary to properly address the many
challenges that supervision required. It allocated resources to ensure adequate supervision and good quality
advice for project implementation. From 1996 to 1999, in conjunction with the preparation and supervision
of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit, two formal supervision missions were carried out each year.
Beginning in July 1999, project management was transferred to field-based staff allowing the project to be
supervised on a nearly permanent basis. Supervision from the field allowed for a permanent dialogue with
the implementation units and a thorough follow up of detailed activities (mainly for decentralization and
computerization of the Treasury chain, for which 15 field trips were carried out).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. While the project design was overly ambitious and
complex, the project did have sufficient flexibility to adapt to a changing institutional environment and new
CAS priorities. During the lifetime of PAIGEP, project activities supported crucial economic adjustment
reforms. Also, with the restructuring of the adjustment credit in September 2002, PAIGEP was able to
successfully contribute to attaining the governance reforms mandated under the third tranche release of the
SAC II.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance at project preparation is rated satisfactory. Following the completion of the
Economic Management and Social Action Project (credit 1967-MAG), the borrower demonstrated strong
commitment to deepening public sector reforms. During project preparation, the government publicized this
commitment by issuing a declaration of its strategy for public sector reform. This declaration was attached
to the Technical Annex (Annex A) of the Memorandum of the President.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance for implementation is rated marginally satisfactory. The Government gave the
necessary support to implement (i) the justice component (creation of the ENMG, improvement of working
condition of members of the judiciary, legal reform) and (ii) some of the budget reforms (validation and
enforcement of the new budget nomenclature). Yet government support was missing for the implementation



                                                      - 12 -

of (i) civil service reform ­ one of the reforms key to improving service delivery to the population, and (ii)
some crucial aspects of the budget reform: GoM should have unified the ministries in charge of budget
process to materialize the budget consolidation; as well as (iii) project execution, witnessed by the failure of
Government to nominate the project's General Coordinator for the first two years into project
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. With respect to finances, the agency kept an
adequate financial system, making financial information available in a timely manner, as required for
proper management and monitoring of the project implementation. The counterpart funds were never a
problem during project implementation. All audit reports were completed and submitted on time. In terms
of procurement, the project procurement plan was produced in agreement with the Bank in a timely manner.
All procurement issues (such as complaints) were treated efficiently. During the last phase of the project,
the agency had no procurement specialist but the risk of work overload was reduced because of the low
number of procurement contracts at this stage.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated marginally satisfactory. As stated and described above (see section
4), Government performance was uneven across the six components. However, the Government
demonstrated strong commitment to the project by covering the financial shortfall caused by the
depreciation of the SDR to the U.S. dollar.

8. Lessons Learned

Governance reforms, such as civil service and justice reform, cannot be tackled by one project alone.
Such reforms are fundamental and sensitive. They require strong and sustained commitment from the
highest authorities. The PAIGEP experience demonstrates that delivering high quality advice and studies is
not sufficient for ensuring that reforms will be implemented. These studies and advice were useful only
when political will existed.

Capacity building projects that support economic reforms should allow for sufficient flexibility in
project design to be able to accommodate changes in the reform program. In Madagascar, flexibility in
project design ensured that important changes in the reform program could be technically supported by the
project. In the context of frequent institutional changes, the flexibility of the project to adapt to these
changes proved critical for achieving positive reform results.

Capacity building projects need a firm anchor in the administration to support economic reforms
effectively. The implementation of the project by an independent unit detached from key ministries lowered
the potential impact of technical project outputs in several areas. Furthermore, the PIU was not able to
influence policy in all areas in which the project was active. One obstacle to successful implementation lay
in the fact that the project components were spread relatively thinly across a number of different ministries.
As a result, several concerned ministries did not develop sufficient ownership of the project. However,
ownership is not entirely a function of the institutional structure but it has to go hand in hand with a
demand for reform, as PAIGEP implementation showed: probably the most successful part of the project,
the establishment and functioning of the National School Magistrates, was rather detached from project
implementation and no core staff of the School was financed through the project. The success of the School
is rather due to its establishment being politically uncontroversial and at the same time immensely popular
with the legal profession in Madagascar.

In poor countries with large capacity building needs, a programmatic and sequential approach to


                                                     - 13 -

fulfilling governance-related needs might be preferable to tackling them in parallel through one
project. As with other capacity building projects, PAIGEP carried out many important activities in
parallel. In many areas, PAIGEP had a substantial impact on long-term institutional capacity; however, in
others areas a large agenda has been left unfinished. In the world's poorest countries, the capacity building
and governance challenges are typically too large to be tackled by one project, which only covers a
medium-term timeframe. In Madagascar, where tangible capacity building results rarely materialize in the
short to medium term, a continuous and programmatic effort towards capacity building and governance is
needed. The experience from PAIGEP also puts into question the idea that capacity building needs of
several ministries can be efficiently met in parallel. Rather, a sequential approach would have likely led to a
stronger ownership of the project across its various activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 10.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


    Component                 Objectives/             Means/Indicators                Actual Outputs
                          Expected outputs
STA: Develop the     1) Coordinate and prepare   a) PFP matrix of policy        Satisfactory: most of the
STA's analytical     technical documents to      actions from December 1995 activities were completed.
capacity and ability support a) the structural   onwards.                       a) Two PFPs were adopted in
to coordinate        adjustment program; b) the  b) Monthly statistical reports 1996 and 1999 in support of
management of        macro-economic framework. on money, prices, budget and the two structural adjustment
economic reforms                                 BOP.                           programs. These programs
                                                                                were supported by the IMF,
                                                                                the World Bank and other
                                                                                donors. b) Monthly statistical
                                                                                reports on macro indicators
                                                                                were issued from October
                                                                                1996 onwards. Five studies
                                                                                were completed under the
                                                                                "Study Fund", dealing with
                                                                                economic reforms,
                                                                                improvement of fiscal
                                                                                resources and the
                                                                                implementation experience
                                                                                in the 4 unified fiscal pilot
                                                                                centers. Macro-economic
                                                                                data reports were published
                                                                                monthly from 1995 onwards.
                     2)Follow up of sectoral     Monthly progress report in     Marginally satisfactory:
                     reforms, early warning of   sector reform and advice on    Activities were partially
                     policy deviations;          policy actions; Quarterly      completed.
                     development of sectoral     progress reports for the       No monthly progress report
                     strategies.                 information campaign.          was issued. However, the
                                                                                follow up of sectoral reforms
                                                                                were reported in the STA
                                                                                annual report on overall
                                                                                adjustment programs.
                     3) Improve dialogue between Annual report from the         This activity was
                     government and private      private sector associations to transferred to the PATESP
                     sector.                     assessing the progress in             6
                                                                                project .
                                                 government/private sector
                                                 relationship
                     4) Strengthen poverty       Quarterly compilation of data Satisfactory: Most activities
                     alleviation mechanisms      on prices, employment,         were completed.
                     (social safety net)         health, education and income;Quarterly reports on social
                                                 production of an annual data sectors budget execution
                                                 sheet with social indicators   were compiled from 2000
                                                 defined by                     onwards. Beneficiary survey
                                                 STA/INSTAT/UNDP to help were held in 9 urban and
                                                 monitor the impact of          rural communes
                                                 economic reforms.
                     5)Explain the benefits and  Production of                  Satisfactory : most of the
                     rationale of the adjustment a) reports on the information activities were completed .
                     program to the              and communication strategy No report was issued but the



                                                   - 15 -

                     administration, private sector by December 1995;             following activities were
                     and population                 b) monthly progress reports   completed:
                                                    on the information campaign,  a) 6 regional workshops on
                                                    starting January 1996.        the adjustment program in,
                                                    c) regular publications on theb) 4 information campaigns
                                                    adjustment process, starting  in rural areas,
                                                    June 1996                     c) 12 radio broadcasts,
                                                    d) opinion polls assessing thed) 10 small publications
                                                    effectiveness of the          e) creation of a web site
                                                    information campaigns,        f) establishment of
                                                    starting October 1996         information centers in each
                                                                                  province capital.
                                                                                  g) publication of an annual
                                                                                  report on adjustment
                                                                                  programs since Dec. 1996.
INSTAT: Develop      Produce National Accounts      Production of                 Satisfactory: Activities were
and maintain         for 1993, 1994, 1995           a) Semi final national        completed.
statistical programs                                accounts for 1993 in June     The three national accounts,
covering the national                               1997.                         based on the United Nations
accounts, household                                 b) Final national account for methodology were
surveys and business                                1993 in Sept 1997.            completed. The data related
cycle surveys                                       c) Final national account for to the accounts were stored
                                                    1994 in December 1997.        on CD-ROM in 1999.
                                                    d) Final national account for
                                                    1995 in December 1997.
                     Produce household survey       Dissemination of the results Satisfactory : Activities were
                     reports for 1997 and 1999      of                            completed.
                     ensure proper dissemination/ a) the first household survey Five Household surveys were
                                                    in December 1997.             completed by 2000. Results
                                                    b) the second household       of these surveys were
                                                    survey in December 1999       disseminated in 6 regional
                                                                                  workshops.
                     Produce three semi-annual      Publication of                 Satisfactory : activities were
                     Business cycle survey reports a) the first business cycle    completed.
                                                    survey in June 1996.          Five surveys were carried out
                                                    b) the second business cycle  from 1996 to 1998, on the
                                                    survey in October 1996.       industrial sector. Two
                                                    c) the third business cycle   surveys were completed in
                                                    survey in December 1996.      1996, on quarterly basis,and
                                                                                  4 others were produced on a
                                                                                  bi-annual basis between
                                                                                  1997 and 1998.
Support the          With respect to the            a) Strengthening of the       Satisfactory: most of the
department of        macro-economic framework: technical services of the          targeted activities were
Finance, Budget,     1) Ensure that the newly       Department of Finances        completed
Planning and         created Permanent Secretariatbefore August 1996              a) The Permanent Secretariat
Economy              for Macroeconomic              b) Provide macroeconomic      Permanent for
                     Forecasting and Modeling is frameworks on a regular basisMacroeconomic Forecasting
                     fully operational 2)Improve    from September 1996           and Modeling was created in
                     the macroeconomic              onwards.                      July 1996 and streamlined
                     framework and the overall                                    within the Ministry of
                     analysis of economic policies                                Finance in 2002 b) A
                                                                                  customized macro economic



                                                      - 16 -

                                                             model was elaborated.
Improve collection of tax,      Collection of 80 % of         Satisfactory: most of the
implement the                   receipts due in year.        redefined activities were
recommendations of the audit                                 completed.
of Treasury, reorganize                                      The audit of the Treasury
procedures and relocate staff.                               was completed in 1998 but
                                                             its recommendations could
                                                             not be implemented. Instead
                                                             of proceeding with the
                                                             reorganization of the
                                                             treasury, it was decided to
                                                             computerize the treasury
                                                             chain. This was achieved in
                                                             2000. An integrated
                                                             computerized pilot system
                                                             was put in place in
                                                             Toamasina. Following the
                                                             reorganization of fiscal
                                                             services in 1996, tax
                                                             collection was shifted from
                                                             Treasury to the Fiscal
                                                             Department of Vice
                                                             Primature of Budget and
                                                             Development of Autonomous
                                                             Provinces.
1) Reallocate expenditure to a) Achieve by year 2000 the Unsatisfactory: activities
priority uses, reorganize       following objectives: 1) Cut were not completed.
procedures and reallocate       public expenditure by 2% of  This evaluation takes in
staff.                          GDP 2) while keeping ,the    account outputs completed
2) Use a sectoral approach as PIP at 8.5% of GDP, and,3)     before the closing of the
basis for expenditures          social spending at 5.5% of   subcomponent in end 1999
allocations and project         GDP.                         a) Overall public expenditure
selection: starting with 6      b) Prepare a PEP for at leastwas 16% of GDP in 1999
ministries and enlarging to     10 ministries in 1997        budget (compared to 13% in
all ministries, and ensure that c) Prepare a PEP for all     1996 budget). This ratio
all projects have been          ministries in 1998           increased to 19 % in 2001
adequately evaluated for        d) Ensure that all new       and 20% in 2002 budget.
economic viability              projects have been analyzed  The 1999 PIP represented
                                for viability in 1998.       7% of the GDP in 1999 , 9 %
                                                             in 2001 and 10 % in 2002
                                                             budget. The Social spending
                                                             was 3.6% of GDP in 1999,
                                                             4% for 2001 and 2002
                                                                     7
                                                             budget.
                                                             b) Training was carried out
                                                             for 300 staff of the ministries
                                                             on PEP methodology but no
                                                             PEP was effectively
                                                             implemented (c and d).
Obtain expenditure savings      a) Savings of 0.5% of GDP     Marginally satisfactory:
by:                             (equivalent to the 1997      targeted activities were
1) Imposing general central     transfers to autonomous      partially completed:
government criteria on          agencies).                   a) Studies for restructuring



                                  - 17 -

                 autonomous agencies,           b)Savings of 3 billions in     Central Government
                 implementing the               salary payments for the 1997 Agencies were carried out in
                 recommendations of             budget                         1998. New statutes for these
                 autonomous agencies study                                     agencies were issues in 1999,
                 and cutting budget transfers.                                 but not enforced. No savings
                 2) Cutting off payment for                                    were made from transfer to
                 civil servants not in service,                                these agencies.
                 implementing the                                              b) A civil service census was
                 recommendations of the                                        completed in 1999 and
                 study, reorganizing                                           updated in 2001. The study
                 procedures and reallocating                                   identified 906 agents not in
                 staff                                                         service and savings of 6
                                                                               billion FMG were made in
                                                                               2002. A new payroll system
                                                                               was implemented in 2000.
Civil Service    Prepare terms of reference for Starting the civil service     Satisfactory: Completed as
reform           pilot studies in the Health,   reform process by July 1997 scheduled.
                 Education, Agriculture, and
                 Public Works ministries
                 Implement the Pilot studies inReorganization, by December The four studies were
                 the Health, Education,         1997,of the four technical     completed in 1997, 1998 and
                 Agriculture and Public Worksministries in line of the         1999.
                 Ministries.                    legislation on
                                                decentralization.
                 Hold a National Workshop to a) Development of action          Unsatisfactory: the activities
                 agree on a strategy and        plans for each area identified were not completed.
                 processes for civil service    and discussed the workshops    a) A National Workshop was
                 reform                         December 1996.                 held in Toamasina on July
                                                b) Presentation to Parliament  21-23 1999, after a workshop
                                                of a new civil service statute on public service reform was
                                                and related texts in May 1997  held in Antananarivo in July
                                                                               1998.
                                                                               b) A new civil service statute
                                                                               draft was submitted and
                                                                               voted by the National
                                                                               Assembly in December 2001.
                                                                               The draft, however, was
                                                                               rejected by the Senate.
                                                c) Development, in at least    Marginally satisfactory: the
                                                two ministries, of transparent objectives were partially met
                                                performance criteria and of    .
                                                incentive mechanisms for       There was substantial
                                                evaluating civil servants to berestructuring in three
                                                applied in 1997.               ministries (Public Works,
                                                                               Transports and Agriculture).
                                                                               Operating costs were reduced
                                                                               through severance of
                                                                               redundant staff. The three
                                                                               ministries main activities
                                                                               were focused on policy
                                                                               design.
Decentralization Enact the transfer of          To be completed in 1997        Marginally satisfactory:
                 competencies to decentralized budget execution.               targeted activities were



                                                  - 18 -

                  levels ­ as described in the                               partially completed.
                  1994 legislation ­ at no cost                              8 Studies were completed
                  for the budget.                                            which dealt with transfer of
                                                                             competences and
                                                                             relationship between central
                                                                             and local government. None
                                                                             of the recommendations of
                                                                             these studies were
                                                                             implemented following the
                                                                             constitutional changes in
                                                                             1998.
                  Promote sound fiscal         Establishment in 6 pilot      Satisfactory : activities were
                  management                   communes accounts approved completed albeit behind
                                               according the law for 1997    schedule.
                                               budget , by July 1998         A decentralization ESW8
                                                                             done by the Bank in 1998
                                                                             recommended to carry out
                                                                             the pilot experience in 12
                                                                             rural communes. The
                                                                             objectives of the experience
                                                                             were to set up adequate
                                                                             administrative and financial
                                                                             management for the 12
                                                                             communes and to improve
                                                                             municipal revenue. These
                                                                             activities were implemented
                                                                             in 2000 and 2001.9
                  Improve local government     Training of 200 Mayors by     No activities were carried out
                                               December 1997, and of 500     and this activity was dropped
                                               additional mayors by July     from the project after the
                                               1999                          mid-term review.
Legal and judicialPublish existing Laws        a) Presentation to Parliament Satisfactory: targeted
reform                                         of legislation concerning the activities were completed.
                                               process of legal publication  a) The presentation of
                                               by December 1997.             legislation concerning the
                                               b) Achievement of agreed      process of legal publication
                                               targets for publication.      was dropped because of its
                                                                             complexity. b) Ten basic
                                                                             laws, used daily in all courts
                                                                             were published between 1998
                                                                             to 2001. The laws were
                                                                             stored on CD-ROM and sold
                                                                             to a large public
                  Legal reform                 Achievements of agreed        Satisfactory: targeted
                                               targets.                      activities were completed .
                                                                             Six laws were reformed and
                                                                             seven other are under
                                                                             finalization
                  Improve the qualification of a) Opening of National        Satisfactory: activities were
                  magistrates                  School of Magistrates by      fully completed.
                                               October 1996.                 a) The School for
                                               b) Satisfactory               Magistrates and Clerk
                                               implementation of training    opened in end 1996.



                                                 - 19 -

                                                      program for magistrates and  b) The School trained 108
                                                      clerks.
                                                                                   new magistrates and 179
                                                                                   new clerks. The School
                                                                                   offered on-the-job training
                                                                                   for 430 magistrates and 583
                                                                                   clerks.
                       Measure output in first        Introduction of quarterly    Satisfactory: completed as
                       instance courts                statistics by December 1997. scheduled
                       Reduce the backlog of cases    1) Reduction of the backlog  Marginally satisfactory: the
                       in first instance courts.      by 50%, by December 1997     objective was partially met.
                       Restore equilibrium between 2) Elimination of the Backlog Backlog at First Instance
                       the number of incoming and by December 2000                 Courts was reduced by 14 %
                       outgoing cases                                              for civil and commercial
                                                                                   cases and by 21% for
                                                                                   criminal cases at the end of
                                                                                               10
                                                                                   the project.


1 The Development Credit agreement (Schedule 2) formulated the development objectives as follows: "to improve
the Borrower's economic management capacity, and to assist in enhancing the effectiveness of the
decentralization process, and civil service, and legal and judicial reform."
2 See paragraph 19 of the MoP.
3 The EMSAP and the project PPF (919-MAG) financed advisory services and equipment of STA.
4 This institution is attached to the Vice-Primature of Budget, Development of Autonomous Provinces and
decentralization.
5Economic Management and Social Actions Project (EMSAP)- Credit 1997-MAG- Completed in June 1996.
6 Private sector Development and Capacity Building Project : Credit No 2956-0 MAG.
7 See figures in Table No 1. Annex 10.
8Report n° 18097-MAG July 1998
9See Graph in Table N°1 in Annex 11.
10See figures in Tables No 3 and No 4 in Annex 12 and Annex 13.




                                                        - 20 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                                             ALLOCATION              ACTUAL
            DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY      APPRAISAL    REALLOCATION     TOTAL
                                                        2000
                                                  USD                 USD
   VEHICULE AND EQUIPEMENT           1     1,705,300     3,235,784      2,749,125
   PUBLICATIONS                      2     1,438,700       319,326        297,375
   CONSULTANTS SERVICE/STUDIES       3     6,844,993     7,288,153      7,054,382
   INNOVATION FUND                   4      289,734              0              0
   TRAINING AND WSORKSHOPS           5     2,166,300     2,033,532      1,948,129
   NFORMATION CAMPAIGN               6      752,200        578,362        535,525
   RECURRENT COST                    7      695,483      1,841,510      2,001,613
   CIVIL WORKS                       9      125,290         57,387         59,567
   PPF CHARGES                       8                                      2,535

   NOT ALLOCATED                             38,500          2,830
   PPF                                     1,032,300       870,172        870,172
                   TOTAL                 15,088,800     16,227,057     15,518,422




                                               ALLOCATION           ACTUAL
                  COMPONENT             APPRAISAL    REALLOCATION    TOTAL
                                                         2000
                                               USD                    USD
STA                                         1,642,000     2,336,153    2,142,420
INSTAT                                      1,542,500     1,619,632    1,549,016
ECONOMY AND PLANNING                        1,696,300      878,811      844,696
FINANCES AND BUDGET                         1,935,700     3,648,710    3,247,268
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                        1,442,700     1,847,265    1,750,621
DECENTRALIZATION                            1,832,900     1,596,130    1,383,990
JUSTICE AND JUDICIARY REFORM                4,093,000     2,528,988    2,408,138
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                   903,700     1,771,367    2,189,739
PPF CHARGES                                                               2,535
                    TOTAL                  15,088,800    16,227,057   15,518,422




                                         - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/31/95                  1    Team Leader, Country                  S               S
                                              Economist
               06//05/95                 3    Members                               S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/22/95                  1    Team Leader, Country                  S               S
                                              Economist
               07/15/96                  6    Members                               S               S

 Supervision
               11/03/1997                 1   Team Leader (1                        S               S
               10/31/1998                 4   Team members (4)                      S               S
               07/30/1999                 3   Country Economist (2);                S               S
                                                 Team member (1)
               03/12/2000                 4   Team Leader (1);                      S               S
                                                 Country Economist (2);
                                                 Team member (1)
               02/28/2001                 4   Team Leader (1);                      S               S
                                                 Country Economist (2);
                                                 Team member (1)
               12/23/2002                 4   Team Leader (1);                      S               S
                                                 Country Economist (2)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               N.A.                           N.A.
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   73.00                          249.4
  Supervision                           168.67                           221.7
  ICR                                     10.00                             7.0
  Total                                 241.67                           478.1




                                               - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Memorandum of the President Report No P-6774-MAG

  Technical annex to the Memorandum of the President Report No T-6674-MAG

  Development Credit Agreement Credit 2119-MAG

  Aide-Mémoires and Project Status Report

  Borrower Evaluation




                                             - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR




                                         - 27 -

- 28 -

      BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT INSTITUTIONAL
                                     SUPPORT PROJECT (PAIGEP)


The project's objective is to support the Government:

- in implementing economic reform: by improving the quality and quantity of basic public services while
concomitantly reducing the public sector's involvement in productive activities; and

- in improving public administration: (1) by promoting low-cost decentralization and encouraging
participation in the local planning and management of the development process; and (2) by restoring the
rule of law and reassuring local and foreign investors through the establishment of an independent and more
efficient legal and judicial system.



Attainment of the project's objective involves three main areas:

- improved economic management (structural adjustment monitoring, support to the National Statistical
Institute (INSTAT) and macroeconomic forecasting);

- improved management of public finances (better formulation, implementation and monitoring of the
State budget, computerization of the public accounts network and integration of the data processing
systems of public financial bodies); and

- public administration reform (civil service reform, support for the decentralization process, and
publication and reform of laws).

Generally speaking, the objectives of the project have been attained both globally and in each of the
components as set out below:



1. Improved economic management

PAIGEP's support has enabled the Government to build its institutional capacity in steering, implementing
and monitoring economic reform, and in the areas of establishing the macroeconomic framework, modeling,
and national accounting. Moreover, as a result of reinforcement in these areas, Madagascar now has
methodological skills for socio-economic surveys and poverty-profile monitoring, which are indispensable
tools for PRSP implementation.

Thus, the establishment of the STA [Secrétariat technique pour l'ajustement] provided the Government
with an instrument for the technical coordination of government action in developing and monitoring
structural and sectoral reforms to facilitate the implementation of the structural adjustment reform
program.


                                                    - 29 -

Regular publication of monthly reports on trends in macroeconomic and financial aggregates enables the
authorities and the donors to keep abreast of changes in the country's economic and financial situation.
Similar reporting on budget execution in the health and education sectors enables the authorities to
influence consumption trends, which are improving.

The adjustment study fund was used to carry out studies and surveys that resulted in structural reforms
which improved the business environment, including a survey on the granting of work and residence
permits and a study on the identification of a system for granting shrimp-fishing permits in Madagascar.

On the other hand, the actuarial audit of the two retirement pension funds, CPR and CRCM, could not be
completed because the services of the consortium commissioned to conduct the audit were not satisfactory.
As a result, the financial and reorganization audit of the Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale under the
second part of the consortium's contract was not carried out.

The awareness and information campaigns enabled the target groups (elected officials, civil society,
students, the business community, the rural population, etc.) to learn about the adjustment issues and the
timetable of the program. Between 1998 and 2001, the tax enhancement operation (Opération Gisements
Fiscaux) led to a revenue increase of more than 100 percent of the seven tax centers concerned following
the consolidation of taxpayers' records, the restructuring of the centers, and the provision of equipment and
supplies.

With regard to INSTAT, the finalization of base accounts for 1993, 1994 and 1995 made it possible to
prepare derivative annual accounts.
The drawing up of national accounts, in which foreign and national experts participated, put an effective
capacity for compiling national accounts in place by providing on the job training for seven national
accountants and established a methodology based on SNA-93. The recording of national account data and
the new methodology on CD-ROM makes it easier for the general public to use them.

The publication of the findings of six business surveys and five surveys on household living conditions
(three community and two priority surveys) has provided the various users of statistics (authorities, donors,
researchers, students, etc.) with recent information on their fields of interest.

In the area of business surveys, 20 officials, 11 supervisors, and 31 survey-officers participating in this
action received specialized training.

Despite the achievements of the project, a few setbacks, which must be remedied, should be mentioned:
- of the seven national accountants who received methodological and practical training in the compilation
of national accounts, only three are still at INSTAT; and
- to date, it has not been possible to implement the new base year 1995, as funds are not available to
develop derivative national accounts as planned.

As is the case with projects that have benefited from external funds, the sustainability of INSTAT's normal
activities after such funding stops must be examined very carefully. One of the solutions seems to be to
provide INSTAT with operational EPIC ("industrial and commercial public undertaking") status in order to
ensure its financial autonomy. However, this measure is opposed by the majority of the staff, who wish to
maintain their civil-servant status to avoid losing some related benefits.

The Permanent Secretariat for Macroeconomic Forecasting (SPPM), which was set up in 1996 and whose
services come under the Office of the Minister of Finance, is perceived as one of the pillars of the

                                                     - 30 -

services come under the Office of the Minister of Finance, is perceived as one of the pillars of the
formulation of a consistent macroeconomic policy and of scenarios used as a framework for finance
legislation (both initial and adjusted).

Project support has contributed to capacity-building in macroeconomic modeling, thereby helping to meet
deadlines for the submission of relevant legislation to the National Assembly for deliberation.

As a result of the restructuring of government bodies, SPPM no longer exists but is now part of the General
Directorate of the Economy (DGE), whose Director-General is the former SPPM Director-General. Tasks
related to the preparation of macroeconomic forecasts and the framework for finance legislation are
therefore performed by DGE.



2. Improved management of public finances

PAIGEP's support has made it possible to get caught up in terms of delays in the preparation of final State
accounts. They now tend to be produced regularly and should in due course enable the Court of Auditors
to perform audits within the statutory deadlines. There have also been noticeable improvements in the
planning of the PIP and the PDPs as a result of intensive training in the sectoral ministries. In future,
improvement of the State budget planning and of investment project monitoring will require deeper reforms.
As regards public finance policy implementation, the establishment of an integrated public finance
management system has been an important step that merits further development in the future. This system
will ensure substantial transparency and the accountability of officials responsible for State budget
planning and execution.

Action was taken by the General Directorate of Public Expenditure to improve State budget planning and
execution: (a) establishment in 1998 of the Budget Overview Unit responsible for drawing up the State
budget, and monitoring and analyzing its implementation, with representatives from the Budget Directorate
(DB) and the Public Investment Directorate (DIP); (b) development of a new chart of accounts for
government transactions (PCOP) and, through its implementation, standardization of the nomenclatures
used by authorizing officers and public accountants; (c) formation of the Public Management Club which
fosters ongoing dialogue between credit managers and central services; and (d) design of a performance
chart to monitor budget execution.

As regards the modernization of wage and pension management, a new management system was introduced
in 2000 and has since been operational in the Salary and Pensions Directorate, where new hardware has
been installed to run the new salary- and pension-processing software.

Nevertheless, despite overall positive results, some weaknesses must be noted. The recommendations made
after the audit of public institutions, business accounts, and supplementary budgets were too superficial
and incomplete to implement. The salaries of certain personnel categories (State police and supplementary
budget personnel) are not yet processed through the new system. Wage and pension data must be audited
to eliminate anomalies due to errors caused by various factors (census etc.). As regards pensions in
particular, the system used does not automatically transfer retiring civil servants' records to retired staff
files, which results in long delays between the retirement date and the commencement of pension payments.

A diagnostic review of the present system in the General Directorate of the Treasury was carried out in
November 1998 to improve the public debt management system.               It was recommended that a new
management system should be installed but its implementation was deferred for operational reasons.
The organizational audit of Treasury services as a whole had to be stopped because the services of the firm

                                                     - 31 -

The organizational audit of Treasury services as a whole had to be stopped because the services of the firm
commissioned to carry it out were not satisfactory, as its staff did not have the required profile.
Non-fiscal debts owed to the State were audited to determine the exact amount of outstanding balances
receivable by the Treasury, assess the likely collection rate and deadline for each claim, study the current
legal status of each company in detail, and analyze the causes of the companies' default on payment and
their ability to settle the claims. The Treasury used the audit's findings to determine the amount of claims
owed by debtor State-companies.

The computerization of the Treasury's accounts network is an integral part of the process designed to
improve the content of the performance chart used to monitor the execution of public finances. Since 2000,
software used to computerize the expense and receipt accounts, known as "expense, receipt and accounting
software", has been developed and installed in the Treasury's accounts units and new computer hardware
has been installed. As a result, the time taken by the computerized accounting services in provincial seats
to draw up account statements was reduced from m+2 to m+1.

In the last few years, the Treasury has not managed to produce settlement accounts on time. To help the
various units to reduce the backlog, the project contributed to the financing of travel to the provinces by the
members of the technical committee1 set up to finalize the State's accounts2 with a view to drawing up
settlement laws.

With respect to capacity-building, the project contributed to the financing of Treasury staff training both
locally, by training of 15 tax collectors (12 of whom obtained a diploma), and overseas, by sending seven
officials on training programs.

Since 1998, a performance chart has been drawn up each quarter to monitor the execution of public
finances. However, owing to problems with inconsistent figures, its content is unusable. The performance
charts produced by the Budget Directorate and the General Treasury Operations Department (OGT) are
completed late for a variety of reasons, including problems related to information flows to the central
authorities, and the different recording methods used result in discrepant figures.

To ensure consistency in data related to the formulation, implementation and monitoring of public finances,
a pilot project on the integration of the information systems of the bodies involved in the budget process
was introduced at the Toamasina site. It covers the Contrôle des Dépenses Engagées (CDE), the Budget
Directorate, including wage management, the Treasury, and the financial control authorities: the tax
service and customs. The results achieved were positive and the system is to be extended to the whole of
Madagascar in the medium term.

Following an audit in the General Directorate of the Economy and Planning (DGEP), restructuring
measures were proposed to remove the risk of duplication of the missions and tasks of the various units and
to redefine their role vis-à-vis technical ministries and donors with a view to improving the transmission
and processing of basic information. All of those measures were implemented. In 1998, a joint audit of the
Ministry of Finance (including DGEP) and the Ministry of the Budget was carried out as part of the public
service reform. Implementation of the audit's recommendations resulted, among other measures, in the
merging of the two ministries and the reorganization of BD and DIP into a single general directorate.

With PAIGEP support, DIP assisted the sectoral ministries in the formulation of their sectoral policy and
the technical ministries in the training of officials in public investment planning and monitoring, in PDP
consolidation methodology and in fiscal procedures for PIP activities. Field missions for (physical and
financial) monitoring conducted by DIP and the Projects Monitoring Unit (CSP) led to an improvement in
the financial execution of projects. As regards capacity building in project monitoring and evaluation,


                                                     - 32 -

project support was used to train officials of the technical ministries, parastatal organizations and
decentralized authorities.


Despite these positive results, there is still the problem of inconsistencies between the investment and
operation budgets which are programmed separately. That raises the issue of investment sustainability,
given the insufficiency of the funds allocated for their operation and maintenance. In future, the PIP must
form the framework for the formulation of the national public investment policy and for linkages between
development objectives, national strategies, and the various component projects of the PIP.


3. Public administration reform

To complete the process of civil service reform, the Government has set up two committees3 whose
missions and responsibilities were defined in the respective decrees under which they were instituted: the
Public Sector Reform Technical Committee (CTRSP), entrusted with the tasks of coordinating, steering
and organizing all the studies and the implementation of the reform of public services in general, and the
State Personnel Management Rehabilitation Steering Committee (CPRGPE), whose mission is to
rehabilitate the administration of State employees.

Basic work conducted to rehabilitate State personnel management involved in the compilation of legislative
and regulatory texts on the administrative and financial management of State personnel; a review of State
personnel remuneration with a view to formulating a results-based wage policy tied to performance
bonuses; and a state of the art study on existing disciplinary measures and professional ethics. The
extension of the salary scale from one to six served as a motivating factor for supervisory staff. The
conduct of a census of State personnel and the reconciliation of its findings with data on wages made it
possible to set up a single State-personnel file which will be the official basis for the financial and
administrative management of government employees. However, procedures and the related software to
keep data updated must be introduced in the ministries using the system.

In the course of the project, draft rules and regulations for State staff were drawn up but they must be
revised because of the staff's resistance to the reform.

Results of the civil service reform are somewhat mixed and vary from one sector to the other. Some
ministries have implemented audit recommendations while others have done so only in part.

The Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Agriculture have been restructured in keeping with the
spirit of the reform. As regards the Ministry of Finances and the Budget, in addition to the restructuring
mentioned above, the implementation of the recommendations concerning the tax enhancement operation
resulted in a very significant increase in tax receipts by the restructured collection centers. This form of
organization and management was extended to nineteen centers not funded by PAIGEP.

Some civil service positions, considered to be important, were termed "key positions". Terms of reference
and performance standards were drawn up for these posts and are to take effect under the 2000 finance
law. The scheme has not yet become operational owing mainly to delays in the formulation of the terms of
reference and to the events that occurred in 2000.

As to decentralization, tangible outcomes were achieved through action undertaken at the community level
and are being used to formulate future action. However, effective implementation of decentralization and


                                                      - 33 -

deconcentration did not advance as expected owing to a series of institutional changes that occurred during
the project.

Although the Constitution provides for three decentralization levels, only the community has been
established and operational since 1995, after the mayoral and communal council elections. The community
has therefore been the main area of PAIGEP action, although, in addition to testing a new form of
organization in the twelve pilot communities, similar action was taken in Toamasina province (Faritany).

Activities carried out at the community level achieved significant results not only in terms of the way in
which communities function but also, especially, in terms of financial inflows. In pilot communities, a
census of taxpayers helped significantly to increase receipts, especially under land taxes (the land tax (IFT)
and the tax on built properties (IFPB)).          The availability of land tax management software and
computerized tax databases facilitates the work of both the responsible tax centers and the beneficiary
communities. Implementation of the recommendations made in the study on the organization of pilot
communities has provided those communities with rational and simple operational methods that are adapted
to their needs.

Professional tax computerization in the Toamasina province saves considerable time in processing taxpayer
and collection data updates at the Toamasina tax center.

However, certain problems encountered in the implementation of these pilot efforts should be raised since
they prevented outcomes from being maximized. The consortium commissioned to conduct the studies
registered delays, which had a negative impact on keeping the time-schedules of implementation and
strengthening of the areas in which gains were made. Census anomalies, a further adversity, distorted the
communities' budget estimates. In addition, permanent use of an international consultant to supervise the
project reduced the accountability of ministry officials, who in practice were removed from management
and monitoring, and, following the consultant's departure, the national officials found it hard to take over.

As to the legal and judicial reform, the effort undertaken with PAIGEP support led to many changes in the
functioning of the justice system and helped to improve the magistrates' working conditions and status.

The compilation and publication of existing legislation made it possible to establish common standards,
known to users, in all courts. Legislation reform contributed to a gradual modernization of corporate law.
The functioning of the justice system began to be modernized gradually through the computerization of
commercial court registries and the replenishment of the documentation available in court libraries. The
creation of the National School for Magistrates and Court Registrars (ENMG) helped to build the
capacities of magistrates and court registrars and improved the status of the profession. The institution of
performance bonuses had a positive effect that shortened the time taken by courts to process cases
(reducing the number of judicial authorities). As a result of law popularization initiatives, the population is
better informed of its rights and obligations.

Despite its high performance level and product quality, ENMG faces problems related to the sustainability
of its activities. This issue applies to almost all projects initiated with donor funds and needs to be studied
in detail.


Concerning the justice system as a whole, despite undeniable progress in recent years, major problems
persist. In addition to dilapidated and blatantly inadequate premises, tools are obsolete, personnel numbers
and qualifications are inadequate, documentation is in short supply and prisons are overcrowded. The


                                                      - 34 -

causes of malfunction are linked to infrastructure, budgets, equipment, logistics, human resources, training,
documentation, information and other aspects. The automatic award of the performance bonus has altered
its initial objective by tending to turn it from an incentive to improved performance to a salary supplement.




PROSPECTS

Improvement of public finance management and monitoring continues to be one of the Government's
priorities. Transparency in the planning and execution of the State budget is best served by a computerized
sequence of public finance procedures, the main tool for alleviating the work of all management and
monitoring units. If it is complemented by the networking of the various sites, data transmission will be
expedited both among the sites themselves and between the outlying sites and the central site that is
responsible for centralizing and consolidating information. This should eliminate the problem of data
feedback, which at present impedes the timely production of a full and reliable performance chart.

The computerization process is still at the pilot stage. It is to be extended to the entire national territory in
the medium term.        By the same token, monitoring the use of public funds will be reinforced by
strengthening and reforming the oversight bodies. Given the impoverished state of all oversight bodies
despite the government's efforts to strengthen them over the last two years, further reinforcement is needed
to meet inadequacies in many areas, for example premises, operating expenses, training, touring vehicles,
and motivation.

The primary objectives of the Government's policy on the justice system are in keeping, in general terms,
with the presidential program in this area: proximity, promptness, and credibility.

Accordingly, the main thrusts of the reform revolve around five objectives: rehabilitating the judicial and
prison infrastructure, strengthening the mechanisms for fighting corruption, expediting the processing of
cases, improving the legal environment for judicial matters and humanizing prison life.

As regards decentralization, the establishment of the structures stipulated in the amended Constitution can
only be gradual, since the provisions that should govern them have not yet been drawn up and the
operational mechanisms not yet defined. Some of the areas yet to be clarified are: the links between
decentralization and deconcentration (e.g., the case of the "fokontany" or villages); the deconcentration of
State services; the distinction between State administration, provincial administration and decentralized
subdivisions; relations between the State and the provinces, the State and local authorities, and the
provinces and local authorities; the division of responsibilities; and the transfer of resources. Among other
things, a clear decentralization strategy will be defined and developed in the medium term.

Given the scale of the tasks to be carried out, the Government has defined five objectives which translate
into medium-term plans of action to create a favorable context for the economic and social development of
the territorial subdivisions, build the institutional capacities of the territorial subdivisions, strengthen the
financial autonomy of the individual community, make communities accountable for the management of
health, education and registry services, and build the capacities for action of the ministerial department in
charge of decentralization and the development of the autonomous provinces.



CONCLUSION


                                                      - 35 -

In its six years of existence, PAIGEP evolved considerably in terms of both content and organization. The
complexity of the project necessitated good coordination which was established only gradually and late
owing mainly to the numerous institutional changes that occurred while it was being designed. However,
the attainments of PAIGEP I deserve to be stressed, because, on the one hand, they reinforced the main
departments responsible for steering the country's development policy and, on the other hand, they showed
that it is altogether possible to motivate officials to accept the structural reforms required to improve the
efficiency of State services. To this end, it is imperative that they be involved from the outset in the design
of the program to be implemented. With regard to the future program that will follow on from PAIGEP, it
is necessary to:
- ensure, from the design stage, good coordination in the preparation and formulation of the project; and
- seek the sectoral authorities' agreement on the reforms to be implemented under the project.




                                                     - 36 -

ENDNOTES

Technical Support Committee.
2 The 1994, 1995 and 1996 accounts were adopted by the National Assembly. The 1997 and 1998
accounts are pending and the 1999 accounts are being drawn up.
3 Decrees Nos. 98 024 and 98 025 of January 5, 1998 replaced the Public Service Reform Steering
Committee, which had been instituted under decree No. 97 842 of June 18, 1997, with the CTRSP, which
has four civil servants at director grade, is chaired by the STA President and acts directly under the
authority of the Prime Minister. The CPRGPE comprises eight members with responsibilities in the pilot
ministries and is chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Public Service.




                                                   - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's comments




                                       - 38 -

- 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Table N°1. Evolution of some Budget indicators



                            1996     1997      1998    1999      2000   2001

Budget execution rate      46.48     38.28     54.98   52.97     41.34  65.16
PIP/GDP                     6.71      8.99     7.57     7.05      8.88  10.19
Budget/GDP                 12.88     16.15     16.01   16.01     19.11  20.30
Social Budget/ GDP          2.99      2.98     2.61     3.60      4.30  4.26




                                         - 42 -

Additional Annex 11. Graph N°1: Communes Revenue, Index of evolution



 250



                   For castedrevenu

                   Actual revenue

 200               Execution rate




 150




 100




 50




  0

           1999                        2000             2001    2002




                                               - 43 -

Additional Annex 12. Table N° 2.Civil and Commercial Jurisdiction cases backlog


Year  Backlog on   New cases       Total cases during Cases handled    Backlog at the % of Backlog
      January 1st  during the year the year           during the year  end of the year
 1998     27,119       46,370           73,489              34,548         38,941        53%
 1999     38,941       48,814           87,755              43,367         44,388        51%
 2000     44,388       69,974           114,362             69,675         44,687        39%




                                                   - 44 -

Additional Annex 13. Table N° 3.Criminal Jurisdictions cases backlog


 Year    Backlog on  New Cases Total cases Cases handled Backlog at the % of Backlog
         January 1st during the  during the during the year end of the year
                        year       year
  1998        20,931      40,843     61,774         40,356          21,418      35%
  1999        21,418      43,436     64,854         40,456          24,398      38%
  2000        24,398      47,531     71,929         55,119          16,810      23%




                                          - 45 -

- 46 -

