Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2911 MAG
                       Development Credit Agreement
              (Public Management Capacity Building Project)
                                  between
                          REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 26, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2911 MAG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has issued a statement of public sector
policy, dated December 7, 1995, describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen its economic and public
sector management capacity, (hereinafter referred to as "the Program"),
and declared its commitment to the execution of the Program;
     (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
Page  2
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a) "CSP" means the Comit de Suivi des Projets established by the
Borrower to monitor the implementation of projects included in the PIP;
     (b) "DB" means Direction du Budget of MFB;
     (c) "DGP" means the Direction Gnrale du Plan of SEEP;
     (d) "DGT" means the Direction Gnrale du Trsor of MFB;
     (e) "DIP" means the Direction des Investissements Publics of SEEP;
     (f) "Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan referred to
in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Imple-
mentation Plan;
     (g) "Implementing Agencies" means the agencies of the Borrower
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
     (h) "INSTAT" means the Borrower's Institut National de la
Statistique;
     (i) "MFB" means the Borrower's Ministre des Finances et du Budget;
     (j) "MFOP" means the Borrower's Ministre de la Fonction Publique;
     (k) "MJ" means the Borrower's Ministre de la Justice;
     (l) "MID" means the Borrower's Ministre de l'Intrieur et de la
Dcentralisation;
     (m) "PEP" means the Borrower's Public Expenditure Program;
     (n) "PIP" means the Borrower's Public Investment Program;
     (o) "Project Account" means the project account referred to in
section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
     (p) "Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator referred to
in paragraph 10 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (q) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letters
of agreement between the Borrower and the Association, dated April 14,
1995, and August 8, 1996 , respectively;
     (r) "SEEP" means the Borrower's Secrtariat d'Etat l'Economie et
au Plan;
     (s) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
Page  3
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (t) "STA" means Secrtariat Technique de l'Ajustement established
by the Borrower by Decree No.95-214, dated March 7, 1995, for the
purpose of coordinating the preparation and implementation of the
program referred to in Part A.1 of the Project.
                                  ARTICLE II
                                  The Credit
     Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,600,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be cancelled.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be
Page  4
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October
1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, sub-
sequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the
Project through STA, INSTAT, SEEP, MFB, MFOP, MID and MJ, respectively
(hereinafter referred to as Implementing Agencies), with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and the Implementation Plan.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
Page  5
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a
commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, a project account in the currency of the Borrower, to be
operated and maintained by the Project Manager, into which it shall
deposit from time to time its local counterpart contribution to the
cost of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $100,000
               into the Project Account; and
          (ii) thereafter have the Project Account replenished on a
               quarterly basis, or whenever the balance thereof equals
               not more than one third of the amount of the initial
               deposit, whichever occurs first.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each quarter and each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than two (2) months after the end of
               each quarter or six (6) months after the end of each
               such year, as the case may be, a certified copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
Page  6
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               each quarterly and annual audit referred to in paragraph
               (b) of this Section, and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
               such quarter or fiscal year, as the case may be,
               together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has submitted an Implementation Plan, acceptable
to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the Project Account has been duly opened, and the initial
amount of $100,000 equivalent deposited therein; and
     (c)  the Borrower has established an adequate financial management
and accounting system for the Project, and selected auditors to audit
the accounts in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement and
Section II of Schedule 3 thereto, respectively.
     Section  6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
     Section  6.03.  The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                              ARTICLE VII
               Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Budget
          Antananarivo 101
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINFIN                   22489
               Antananarivo
     For the Association:
Page  7
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                    By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                              Credit               % of
                             Allocated         Expenditures
                          (Expressed in            to be
     Category            SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1) Vehicles and              970,000          100% of foreign
    office equipment                           expenditures and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures
(2) Books and                  830,000         100% of foreign
    publications                               expenditures and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures
(3) Consultants'             4,300,000         100%
    services and studies:
(4) Pilot activities           740,000         100% of foreign
    under Part E.3                             expenditures and
Page  8
    of the Project                             75% of local
                                               expenditures
(5) Training and             1,340,000         100% of foreign
    workshops                                  expenditures and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures
(6) Public                     390,000         75% of local
    information                                expenditures
    campaigns and
    surveys
(7) Operating costs            330,000         100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures
(8) Refunding of               680,000         Amounts due
    Project                                    pursuant to
    Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                    of this Agreement
(9) Unallocated                 20,000
                             _________
     TOTAL                   9,600,000
                             =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating
costs incurred by the Implementing Agencies under the Project on
account of (i) travel costs and allowances, (ii) maintenance of
vehicles and equipment, (iii) banking charges, and (iv) office rent,
supplies and utilities, and rent of other physical facilities.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures under Category (2) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Association to show that it has established
adequate rules to control access to law library facilities, and has
taken all other measures necessary to ensure the safe keeping of books
and periodicals procured under the Project; and (c) expenditures under
Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless
details of the proposed activity under Part E.3 of the Project have
been submitted to the Association for its prior review and approval,
and such approval has been duly obtained.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, goods, equipment and consultants' services
(individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
operating costs, training and workshops under Part E.1 of the Project,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
Page  9
     The objectives of the Project are to improve the Borrower's
economic management capacity, and to assist in enhancing the
effectiveness of the decentralization process, and civil service,
and legal and judicial, reforms.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Support for STA
1.   Provision of technical advisory services and training, and
acquisition of equipment, to strengthen the capacity of STA to
monitor and coordinate the economic and social reform program, and
motivate and sensitize other technical Ministries involved in the
adjustment process.
2.   Design and implementation of a communication and information
campaign aimed at explaining the adjustment process to the public.
Part B:   Strengthening of INSTAT
1.   Strengthening of the institutional capacity of INSTAT to ensure
consolidation of national base accounts, the production of light
annual accounts and the projection of national accounts over three
outer years.
2.   Development and implementation of a household-welfare monitoring
and analysis scheme, including permanent surveys and studies, priority
surveys and development of capacity to carry out such surveys.
3.   Establishment of a permanent unit of INSTAT to carry out business
cycle surveys, including preparation of a users' manual to carry out
such surveys.
Part C:   Support for SEEP
1.   Carrying out of a series of studies related to economic development
strategy, and to strengthen the analytical capacity of the Borrower to
determine the economic viability of new projects, to review the status
of on-going projects and programs and, in particular, their consistency
with overall economic strategy, and to conduct the ex-post evaluation of
completed projects.
2.   Strengthening of the capacity of DIP to prepare, in conjunction
with other sectoral ministries of the Borrower, sectoral strategy
documents designed to serve as background for yearly expenditure
reviews, and the adoption of the budget and the PIP; including
finalization of a PEP consolidation manual, training of personnel
of sectoral ministries and revision of budgetary procedures to
integrate PEPs fully into budget and PIP preparation, and rationa-
lization of financial and physical monitoring of the execution of
the PIP.
3.   Provision of training, materials and equipment to strengthen the
capacity of CSP to monitor the implementation of projects and identify
obstacles to their timely execution, and propose solutions accordingly.
4.   Design and preparation of a quarterly publication, containing
economic information and an investment project rundown, for public
circulation.
5.   Carrying out of an organizational audit to develop proposals for
the reorganization of SEEP, having regard to the need to rationalize
the allocation of human resources of DGP, and improve coordination
within MFB and SEEP.
Part D:   Support for MFB
1.   Continuation of the budget reform process with a view to increasing
the effectiveness of the budget as an instrument to support the
Borrower's economic policies, including reorganization of DB and training
Page  10
of staff.
2.   Carrying out of an audit of autonomous agencies of the Borrower,
with a view to promoting transparency in the treatment of their related
expenditures in the budget.
3.   Carrying out of an organizational audit of the DGT to provide
guidance for the reorganization of the DGT, having regard to the need
to review outdated administrative procedures, personnel training needs,
and the need to ensure that there are available adequate human
resources to perform the tasks involved.
4.   Provision of technical advisory services to establish an efficient
debt management system and, accordingly, to review the respective roles
of the Central Bank and the DGT, including a diagnostic study to define
appropriate solutions in terms of procedures, logistics and qualifica-
tions.
5.   Rehabilitation and modernization of payroll management, including
a preliminary study to review procedures, training of personnel and
introduction of a new computerized payroll system.
6.   Provision of advisory services for the establishment of a
Department of Economic Forecast and Analysis within MFB.
Part E:   Civil Service Reform
1.   Preparation and organization of a series of workshops on civil
service reform, covering all departments of the civil service, with a
view to development of a detailed action plan for civil service reform.
2.   Carrying out of a diagnostic study of four pilot Ministries --
agriculture, public works, health and education -- to establish a test
case for civil service reform, and make proposals for restructuring,
redeployment of functions and personnel management, and modification
of operating practices and procedures, including proposals for redeploy-
ment of staff resulting from the process of decentralization and
deconcentration, and the divestiture process in the relevant sectors.
3.   Financing of activities to support reforms arising from recommen-
dations of workshops on civil service reform, including specific
studies, training, reorganization of administrative services and
computerization.
Part F:   Decentralization
1.   Carrying out of a series of studies designed to assist in the
design and implementation of the decentralization and deconcentration
process.
2.   Training of officials and higher level staff of the decentralized
governments, and central government representatives, and design of a
training program to support decentralization.
3.   Provision of training and technical assistance, and acquisition
of computer equipment, or other specialized services, to support pilot
implementation of decentralization in selected urban centers, and thus
provide useful examples and lessons for the pursuit of the decentra-
lization process in other urban centers.
Part G:   Legal and Judicial Reform
1.   Compilation and publication of existing commercial and business
laws, and publication of a legal periodical, including a law review
section, a law reporting section and a section on legislative
developments.
2.   Reform of existing commercial and business laws, including the
Commercial Code, the provisions governing the commercial registry,
company legislation, land tenure legislation, and banking legislation.
3.   Training and retraining of judges, magistrates, and paralegal
Page  11
staff, and establishment of a school for that purpose.
4.   Carrying out of measures to streamline the litigation process,
particularly in the lower courts.
5.   Carrying out of measures to strengthen the effectiveness of MJ
and the courts.
6.   Commissioning of a study on the establishment of an adequate
arbitration mechanism capable of disposing of commercial disputes.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $550,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines; provided, however, that (a) bids are opened
in public, and the amounts of bids are read out aloud, (b) contracts
are awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, (c) a minimum of
30 days is provided between availability of bid documents and bid
submission deadline, (d) a minimum of three bids are received, and (e)
foreign bidders are allowed to participate.
2.   International Shopping
     Texbooks, equipment and teaching materials estimated to cost
$30,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $60,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
3.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less in the aggre-
gate may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Direct Contracting
     Law books and other specific legal materials estimated to cost
$810,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured directly
from the publisher or the publisher's agent.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procure-
ment of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Asso-
ciation. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
Page  13
1.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, issue
brochures on the adjustment process for the benefit of the general
population.
Part B of the Project
2.   For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than December 31, 1996, disseminate for public
use all data collected by the household survey;
     (b)  organize a workshop to devise appropriate methodology for
preparing business cycle surveys, and provide, not later than
December 31, 1996, a detailed work program and outline of such
methodology; and
     (c)  not later than March 31, 1998,
          (i)  produce final accounts for 1993, 1994 and 1995, and
         (ii)  develop the final version of methodology for aggregated
               light accounts.
Part E of the Project
3.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, define and
submit for consideration by the first national workshop to be organized
pursuant to Part E.1 of the Project its proposed framework for civil
service reform.
Part F of the Project
4.   The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1996, (i)
revise the terms of reference of the committee of experts established
pursuant to Decree No. 93-952, dated December 8, 1993, to include
measures related to the deconcentration of services and responsibi-
lities, (ii) ensure that no such measures shall be implemented except
after the committee's views shall have been duly obtained, and (iii)
adjust the composition of the committee to take account of its
increased responsibilities; and (b) not later than December 31, 1996,
establish a Local Government Finance Commission, consisting of
representatives of central and local governments, to resolve conflicts
arising from the transfer of resources and functions amongst the
various levels of government.
Part G of the Project
5.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, submit to
the National Assembly appropriate draft legislation authorizing the
process of compilation and publication of existing commercial and
businesss laws.
6.   Without limitation on its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide adequate budgetary
resources to meet the recurrent costs of law reform activities under
Part G.2 of the Project, and the proposed school under Part G.3
of the Project, and to ensure the proper administration of the courts,
taking into account any proposed increase in the amount of the housing
allowance, and any performance-based incentive payments, that may be
agreed.
7.   The Borrower shall (a) not later than September 30, 1996, provide
adequate physical facilities for the proposed school under Part G.3 of
the Project, and (b) recruit adequate numbers of trainee magistrates and
court registrars (greffiers) annually to be admitted to the school.
8.   For purposes of Part G.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall (a)
not later than June 30, 1997, commission a study to investigate all
outstanding causes of delay in the judicial process, (b) communicate
the findings and recommendations thereof to the Association for review
and comments, and (c) proceed thereafter to implement such recommen-
dations, taking into account any comments that may have been thereon
Page  14
by the Association.
9.   For purposes of Part G.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than June 30, 1997, appoint a commission to review all aspects
of the remuneration of magistrates, including related benefits, and to
make recommendations accordingly.
General
10.  The Borrower shall designate:
     (a)  an overall coordinator to be responsible for the overall
coordination of the Project;
     (b)  a Project Coordinator to be responsible for the supervision
and coordination of the day-to-day management of the Project,
including development of an accounting system for implementation of
the Project, coordination of procurement and disbursement activities
pertaining to each of the executing agencies, coordination of annual
activity reports and work plans, and quarterly and annual audits under
Section 4.01 of the Project; and
     (c)  a coordinator to be responsible for each of the other
components of the Project.
11.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare and submit to the Association an implementation plan
for the Project, giving details of all procurement and disbursement
arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, financial
and organizational arrangements agreed upon with the Association for
purposes of implementation and monitoring of the Project; and
     (b)  carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Plan and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment,
abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association,
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
12.  The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review or
approval, as the case may be:
     (a)  prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and in any event
not later than September 30 of each year, commencing September 30,
1996, a proposed annual work program for such fiscal year, including
an annual program of studies under Part C.1 of the Project, a work
program for the compilation and publication of laws under Part G.1 of
the Project, a proposed legislative reform program under Part G.2 of
the Project, annual training and study tour programs for each component
of the Project, and, where applicable, an evaluation of the results of
the training program for the current fiscal year;
     (b)  quarterly progress reports on the status of the Project;
     (c)  reports as needed on the award of individual contracts under
the Project; and
     (d)  six-monthly procurement reports giving details of:
          (i)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for
               the Project, including best estimates of allowances for
               price contingencies;
         (ii)  revised timing of procurement actions, including
               advertizing, bidding, contract award and completion time
               for individual contracts; and
        (iii)  status of compliance with aggregate limits prescribed
               for specific procurement procedures.
13.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
Page  15
with performance indicators referred to in paragraph 11 (a) of this
Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1998, under-
take, in conjunction with the Association and all Implementing Agencies,
a joint mid-term review of the Project, during which they shall exchange
views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Projectand the 
performance by the Borrower and all Implementing Agencies of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and, in particular:
          (i)  the progress achieved by the Borrower and all
               Implementing Agencies, having regard to indicators
               referred to in paragraphs 11 (a) and 13 (a) of this
               Schedule; and
         (ii)  the performance of consultants under the Project.
     (c)  Not later than one month prior to the review, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress
and status of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the
various matters to be discussed at such review.
     (d)  Following the review, the Borrower undertakes to act
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implemen-
tation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 2,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
Page  16
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Page  17
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
