The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repsit N. P-3922-BR
REPORT AND RECONMENDAIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPC2ED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$72.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
January 10, 1985
This oisue  bes a resried disk bdo  and may be wed by reidpins oy iim the perfomance of
ther odalduties Its conteubnsmay not odierwise be discoead without World Bank anthonziabon.



CURRENC EQUrVALENIS
Calendar 1984                               January 3, 1985
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = Cr$1,952                            US$1 - Cr$3,041
Cr$1   U US$0.000512                       Crl - US$.000328
GOVERMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
CAs       _    Appraisal Committees (Comites Assessores)-the groups of
scientific and professional peers which will rank and make
recommendations on approved PADCT subproject proposals for
the intermediary agencies.
CAPES     -    Coordinating Agency for Advanced Training of High Level
Personnel (Coordenacao de Aperfeicoamento de Pessoal de
Nivel Superior)-the agency of the Ministry of Education and
Culture, oversees all graduate programs in Brazil.
CNPq      -    National Council for Scientific and Technological
Development (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico
e Tecnologico)--an agency of the Planning Secretariat, the
prime coordinating agency for science and technology in
Brazil.
FINEP     -    Agency for Financing Studies and Projects (Financiadora de
Estudos e Projetos)-the agency of the Planning Secretariat
through which most resources for scientific research and
graduate education are channelled.
PADCT     -    Support Program for Development of Science and Technology
(Programa de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Ciencia e
Tecnologia).
SEPIA^N    -    Presidential Planning Secretariat (Secretaria de
Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica)-Brazil's national
planning ministry.
STI       -    Secretariat for Industrial Technology (Secretaria de
Tecnologia Industrial)-a unit of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce, charged with oversight of basic services for
industrial development.



FOR omICL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil.
Project
Executing
Agencies:      Executive Secretariat for PADCr with assistance of National
Council for Scientific and Technological Dpvelopment (CNPq);
Agency for Financing Studies and Projects (FINEP);
Coordinating Agency for Advanced Training of High Level
Personnel (CAPES); and Secretariat of Industrial Technology
(STI).
Amount:        US$72.0 million including a capitalized front-end
fee of about US$0.2 rillion.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Beneficiaries: Final beneficiaries would be Brazilian universities and
schools, research institutes, industrial service
organizations, and industrial enterprises which compete
successfully for subproject funding from the four federal
government agencies listed above.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the 1984-86 time slice of Brazil's Program for
Support of Science and Technology Development (PADCT).
PADCT provides for research and human resources development
in six fields: Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,
Biotechnology, Geosciences and Mineral Technology,
Instrumentation, Science Education, and Science Planning and
Management. PADCT also includes four National Science
Service Programs to address sector-wide service
deficiencies: Basic Industrial Technology, Science
Information, Chemical Reagents and Research Consumables, and
Spare Parts and Maintenance. These combined efforts are
expected to result in better quality and efficiency in
research and human resource development projects, multiyear
finance for such projects, and more cost effective services
for the science and technology sector.
Risks:         The main risk for the project is that its activities could
be slowed due to the likely change in implementing agency
managers as a result of the upcoming change in federal
government. This risk has been minimized by ensuring,
during the preparation process, that the PADCT project
evaluation mechanisms are decentralized and do not depetnd
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutislts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
exclusively on tne executing agencies. A second risk is
that implementation of some areas of activity may go forward
in a manner inconsistent with the PADCT guidelines, since
four intermediary agencies are involved, as well as hundreds
of beneficiaries, and it will not be possible to supervise
in detail each activity. This has been addressed by
providing for semi-annual reviews of progress by a
Review and Advisory Group (GEA) with a -ore comprehensive
review in mid-1986.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign      Total
-USS milion
Targeted Programs
Biotechnology                    17.7      13.5          31.2
Chemistry/Chemical Engineering  25.5       17.7          43.2
Geosciences/Mineral Technology  18.9       12.3          31.2
Instrumentation                  19.4       4.6          24.0
Science Education      -         15.0       1.8          16.8
Science Planning/Management       4.0       1.4           5.4
Subtotal                        100.5      51.3         151.8
National Services Programs
Basic Industrial Technology      26.6      11.5          38.1
Science Information               2.4       1.0           3.4
Reagents/Research Consumables    0.6        4.6           5.2
Repair/Maintenance                7.4       4.1          11.5
Subtotal                         37.0      21.2          58.2
Program Administration              4.7       0.7           5.4
Total Baseline Costs              142.2      73.0         215.2
Front-End Fee on Loan               -         0.2           0.2
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED          142.2      73.2         215.4
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreigv   Total      Z
USS million
Government                        142.2        1.2   143.4    66.6
IBRD                                 -       72.C    72.0    33.4
TOTAL                             142.2      73.2   215.4   100.0



- iii -
Estimated Disburseuuts:
1985 /a  1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Bank Fiscal Year              ------- --=iS$ m Ilion-
Annual                15 /a    20     15    10       7     5
Cumsistlve            15       35     50     60     67    72
Rate of Return: n.a.
.
!a2 Including initial deposits into Special Accounts.
.



INrERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION (F THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$72.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
*   1.    I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$72.0
million including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.2 million to help
*         finance a Science and Technology Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled  Economic Memorandum on Brazil-
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs
summarize and complement the findings of that report. A subsequent
economic mission visited Brazil in May-June 1984, and its report will be
distributed shortly.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Figueiredo,
completes its six-year term in March 1985. Its main economic priorities
have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of manufactured
exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the same time an
improvement in the situation and prospects of the most economically
disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the Northeast. The prime
political concern has been the return to a fully democratic system of
government. Much of the Government's attention, since 1980, has had to be
diverted from longer-term political and economic change because of
the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the economic
recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial progress
*         has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage
of development.
4.        Presidential elections are scheduled for January 15, 1985, and
the new Government will take office in March. In pre-election statements
the two candidates have emphasized the need to restore economic growth,
raise real incomes and improve income distribution. They have also
recognized that growth cannot be sustained without a decline in inflation
and equilibrium in the external accounts. The prospects are for a
relatively smooth transition, and for a new Government also well equipped
to tackle the problems still facing Brazil.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial



-2-
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the interuational recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprise; and heavy foreign borrowing.  Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 19&, and interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, or 5.OZ
of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of
sustained growth. Incipient recovery -was checked in 1982 by a combination
of external developments, including declining world commodity prices,
economic problems among some major trading partners, and regional events
leading to the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its
reserves, tne reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or
extend new credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought
assistance from the International Monetary Fund in support of an
intensified adjustment program.  In February 1983 the DW pledged financial
assistance of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and
through the Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with
this were commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new
loans, the rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support, which were later extended into 1984.
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5 in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion to US$6.2 billion. The major
source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was also
brought under control. Central Bank figures show that the consolidated
operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6% of GDP in 1982 to
2.5% in 1983, with a small surplus expected in 1984. In addition, steps
were taken to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust
relative prices for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and
increase revenues. The adjustment process continued during 1984, and,
although inflation has remained high, substantial progress was made towards
establishing a new basis for growth. In particular, strong export
expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$26 billion and a
trade surplus amounting to over US$12 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very



-3-
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Preliminary
official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.2% in 1983, concentrated in
the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per capita GDP
declined by about 12% in 1981-83, and industrial employment by over 20%,
with the larg-st reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is expected to grow
in the 3X range, or about 1X per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports is assisting industrial recovery, despite the fact that for most
sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains relatively
*         small.  Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, however, which can be expected to continue until there is some
relaxation in the present austere demand management policies. In
particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized until real
interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40Z. Unless
significant progress is made against inflation, the outlook is for domestic
market conditions to improve only slowly. The end of the year annual
inflation is estimated at 224%.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears much more
encouraging than that of a year before. The balance-of-payments situation
is much stronger, some signs of recovery from the domestic recession are
apparent, and inflation is no longer accelerating. In addition, the
international economic situation appears more encouraging, with at least a
temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices. 1, The international
financial environment also appears more accommodating than a year ago.
I1.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear quite
favorable following the trade surplus of over US$12 billion obtained for
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for the first eleven months were 23% greater than in
the same period in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial exports was
35%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, Brazil's international
*          reserve position has also improved markedly.
12.       Inflation is no longer accelerating, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of coxzse
mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects commonly
associated with inflation. Although the aggregate demand has been
substantially reduced, as a result of the measures taken to eliminate the
real consolidated public sector deficit, indexation and inflationary
1/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss uf about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices has
an impact of up to US$300 million on the trade balance.



-4-
expectations continue to propagate the inflation. A major challenge for
the new Government will be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen
inflationary expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and
consistent medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic
program will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
rursued by the Government and a number of external economic conditions
outside the control of Brazilian policy-makers. The level of international
interest rates, oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the avoidance
of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the willingness of
the international commercial banks to increase their nominal exposures are
all critical for Brazil. At the same time, much will also depend upon the
conduct of national economic policies by the incoming Government. The
present situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term,
strategy for structural adjustment and econo;'c recovery.  This strategy
should focus on greater production efficiency, an improved allocation of
economic resources, reduced inflation, increased investment and savings,
further export promotion, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could acuieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance, which turned positive in 1983 with the large trade
surplus of that year, would continue to grow, resulting in a further
reduction of the current account deficit. This deficit, which amounted to
US$6.2 billion in 1983 (equal to about 3% of GDP) and an eszimated US$2.6
billion in 1984, is projected at US$2.4 billion in 1990. The debt would
grow at much more modest rates than in the past. Total medium and
long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at an annual rate of
4.8% from 1983 to 1990, below the projected rate of international
inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements would rise from
US$14 billion in 1985 to about US$22 billion in 1990, in current prices,
and amortization from US$10 billion to about US$15 billion in the same
period, with net disbursements averaging approximately US$6 billion
annually. For private M&LT debt, the projections are consistent with
reductions of total real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced
share of Brazilian loans in total commercial bank lending portfolios.
Nevertheless, continued new lending will be required for the foreseeable
future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 822 in 1983 to a plateau of 69-70X for 1984-86, and
then decline gradually to about 46% in 1990. In the absence of any further
rescheduling, there would be an amortization bulge in 1986. The total
external debt as a multiple of total gonds and non-factor service exports
is projected to decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.9 in
1982. By 1990 the ratio is projected to have fallen to 2.0.



-5-
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projections is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to about US$8 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 3% of
GDP annually. Even with the3e transfers, however, economic growth of a
reasonable magnitude could occur.
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4.3% in 1985 to 6.62 in 1989.  Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of 3.0% annually
is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1989 that the 1980 level of
per capita income would be restored.
18.       Alternative projections assuming a more vigorous pursuit of
export promotion policies produce more favorable results suggesting the
possibility, with eased foreign exchange constraints, of GDP growth
exceeding 7% a year by 1990. On the other hand, adverse changes in the
LIBOR, oil prices, and particularly in export growth (whether through
restraints by trading partners, adverse international economic conditions,
or inappropriate domestic economic policies) could undermine and delay the
recovery.
19.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
enormous uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic ecunomy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
improved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary



-6-
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains wera re4lized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public servicec1 declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of present economic difficulties on output and employment, however,
there is a possibility that some of these gains could have been seriously
eroded in the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at
the rates of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a
potentially serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would
persist well after the recession, unless strategies favoring more
labor-intensive activities or technologies are pursued.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1984 the Bank had made 134 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,725.3 million (net of cancellations), of which 69 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of September 30, 1984 was US$3,782.9 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans.
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies.  In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. No loan has been approved
so far for Brazil in FY85.  Work is almost completed however, for a US$300
million loan for a third development banking project, and is quite advanced
for a loan for a second agricultural sector project, for loans for electric
power, for rural water, and for three rural development projects in the
Northeast of Brazil.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.57.
24.       As of September 30, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,019.53 million, of which US$662.20 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$357.33 million, US$278.79 million



7
represent Loans and US$78.54 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
*       developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower aver-ge
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These precent and
*       prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include worl-ing capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of project
costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition.  Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Gover_:ent initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
suppc,rt the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth. The proposed loan to support
science and technology supports development of the productive sectors by
focusing resources on research and development activities related to the
nation's resource base.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide



-3-
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Go-ernment to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of tle pcpulation, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and tc Improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vo'.ati:xal training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, -oldar construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition
research and development project and a first health project for the
northwest region, a basic health care project in the state of Sao Paulo and
a national health studies project are belping promote efficiency, cost
effectiveness and equity in the delivery of health services in Brazil.
Several projects for rural and urban development, for health and for rural
water supply and sanitation, directed to the needs of the lowest income
groups in the Northeast are under preparation.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial
bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in
the rear future, bowever, and as evidenced by the Bank participation in a
syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan
2196-BR) approved in mid-1984, the new cofinancing instruments developed by
the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide
Brazil with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III - THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SECTOR
31.       A well-developed capacity to assess existing technology in the
context of changing markets, to adapt technology to local needs, and to
incorporate technological advances into productive processes that
contribute to a nation's growth requires coordinated investments in



-9-
education, in scientific researci", and in technology development.  Such
scientific and technological support in Brazil is increasing
substantially. Expenditures on research and development (R and D) grew
from 0.25Z of GDP in 1970 to about 0.60Z in 1982. This R and D level is
roughly equivalent to that of other middle income countries but still well
below the average expenditures in this field of the OECD countries (about
2.0% of GD?). Between 1979 and 1982, expenditures for science and
technology related activities grew from about US$1.4 billion to US$1.9
*      billion.  About 67% of the total funds for R and D come from the Federal
Government budget. The remaining funds come from the private and state
enterprises (about 20%), other Brazilian agencies, including universities
X       (about 10Z), and external agencies (about 3%).
Sector Management
32.       In 1972, Brazil established the National System for Scientific
and Technological Development (SNDCT), which encompasses all organizations
using public resources for purposes of planning, coordination, execution
and evaluation of research, and dissemination of research results. Under
the SNDCT, responsibility for sector coordination is with the Secretariat
of Planning (SEPLAN), which, in turn, acts through the National Council for
Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq). The Scientific and
Technological Council (CCT), within CNPq, although independen; therefrom,
formulates broad science and technology priorities, and seeks to assure
adequate coordination of the nation's efforts in science and technology.
CNPcr also -4ministers seven research institutes and other activities for
support of basic research. In addition to CNPq, there are three key
intermediary agencies through which public funds for non-military research,
technology, and related training programs are channeled. The Agency for
Financing Studies and Projects (FINEP) was established to finance
preinvestment studies and technology development, and to support technology
transfer to Brazil. FINEP also administers the National Fund for
Scientific and Technology Development (FNDCT), the principal government
source of grant funding for science and technology.  The Agency for
Training of High Level Personnel (CAPES) of the Ministry of Education and
Culture is the coordinating agency for secor.d and third degree higher
education. Finally, the Secretariat for Industrial Technology (STI), under
*        the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, is responsible for metrology,
standards and quality control; for patents; and for applied technology
development, all of which are carried out through various institutes. All
four agencies have long experience in project funding.
33.       Brazil's current policy for science and technology is described
in its 1980-85 Basic National Plan for Scientific and Technological
Development (PBDCT). The two main objectives of the plan are: (a) to
furthe--: dealop the nation's scientific capacity through quality
improvement and expansion of R and D activities; and (b) to support
improvements in capacity to select and generate more adequate technologies
for Brazil's economic and social growth.
34.       In setting these objectives, Brazil seeks to broaden and to
enhance the ability of its sc'ence and technology sector to acquire
significant economic payoffs from investments in research. Recent
promising research efforts have included, in agriculture, use of continuous
fermentation processes to increase alcohol yields 7.5% and simultaneously



- 10 -
decrease ten fold the volume of stillage, thereby making the latter an
economic fertilizer and limiting pollution; the laboratory development of
a modified acid-catalyzed hydrolysis process to separate lignin from
cellulose, thereby making possible the subsequent transformation of
cellulose, from bagasse and other woody substances, into sugars for
fermentation into alcohol; and the development of one of the world's most
benign insecticides from the structural identification of the active
componeut of an Amazonian plant which insects were observed to avoid and
which kllls fish when pulverized and placed in streams.  In the mineral                a
resources field, recent successes include the development by Brazilian
metalurgists of techniques for extracting and refining niobium, of which
Brazil has 952 of the world's supply; Aiobium is already a crucial
ingredient in Brazilian speciality steels and potentially of vast
importance for low cost, long distance electrical power transmission,
because of its superconductivity. A successful attack on sector
weaknesses, described below is expected to multiply results of this kind.
Sectoral Issues
35.      In order to achieve the objectives referred to above, some
important issues were identified through sector work and a strategy to
address these issues was formulated by the Government. The issues arise
from a lack of human resources to meet sectoral development needs,
inadequate sectoral coordination and financing, and ineffective management
of programs and services exacerbated by restrictive trade and industrial
policy.
36.       Development in the science and technology sector is constrained
because of shortages of human resources. Of those presently working in the
sector, too few work in some of the disciplines necessary to develop
Brazil's natural resources, such as geosciences, mineral technology,
biotechnology, and chemistry. This overall scarcity has its roots in the
weaknesses of science education at the primary and secondary level, where
teachers are not well prepared to transmit the required knowledge, and
curricula need substantial improvement. There are also important
shortcomings at the university level, where adequate degree programs for
training scientists and technicians in fields which have high priority for
economic development are relatively few.
37.       The inefficiencies of the educational system are exacerbated by
uncertain policy coordination throughout the sector. This is partly
because the Scientific and Technological Council which is charged with
policy coordination has had limited effectiveness in achieving adequate and
consistent dialogue with the managers of the intermediary agencies and in
influencing funding decisions. As a result, in practice there is
overlapping responsibility in project financing and decisions on funding
are not based on a consistent view of relative priorities. Funding for
research is difficult to obtain because researchers often need to seek
funds fron multiple sources, and funds are provided on an annual basis for
efforts which extend over several years. Furthermore, policies affecting
research and development as well as decisions on specific projects have
been made without adequate review by the scientific community and have
resulted in overlapping programs, misallocation of resources and poor
quality research results. Important research related to local conditions
in less accessible and economically underpriviledged areas of the country



- 11 -
may be left undone because so much of the research capacity - about 85% -
is located in the south. Finally, important services such as equipment
maintenance and repair, supply of research consumables,  metrology, and the
dissemination of knowledge, particularly in areas such as patents,
standardizatic--. and quality control have been far too limited to meet the
needs of practicing scientists and industrial users.
38.       The effects of the economic recession and import restrictions in
*       Brazil have also hindered development of the sector.  As available
financial resources have shrunk, the efects of inadequate coordination and
resource allocation have been magnified and the quality of the services
*       provided by the sectoral agencies has declined.  Import restrictions on
microelectronics have prevented scientists and universities from using
state-of-the-art equipment for teaching and research. These restrictions,
and th, industrial production licensing also imposed on a wide range of
electronic equipment, are consistent with past policies of development
through import substitution but in microelectronics carry greater risks of
obsolescence and extra costs affecting other sectors of the economy.
Within the technology sector, limited access to foreign exchange, required
to purchase spare parts, reagents and other research consumables, has also
resulted in the breakdown of a sizable portion of equipment needed for
research and advanced scientific and technical education. It has alsc
curtailed availability of foreign technical literature, advanced training
abroad of Brazilians, and use of foreign technical assistance.
The Program for Science and Technology Development (PADCT)
39        In response to the aforementioned issues which constrain the
development of the sector, the government prepared, over a two-year period,
the Program for Support of Science and Technology Development (PADCT). The
PADCT is a five-year investment program for science and technology, and is
the basis for the proposed Bank loan. The main objectives of the PADCT are
(a) to introduce more appropriate policy-making systems and project
finance decision-making procedures; (b) to provide funding for targeted
long-term research and human resource development projects in high
priority-scientific fields; and (c) to consolidate and improve the
functioning of science and technology services. PADCT has already
addressed the institutional probl_ms mentioned in para. 37 by establishing
Technical Groups, composed of practicing scientists and government agency
staff. These groups make proposals within each area of activity included
in PADCT to the Executive Secretariat of the Scientific and Technological
Council to establish the policy framework for each program and to ensure
that it is consistent with national priorities and based on a widely shared
consensus. One-stop malti-year funding is also provided to researchers
(para. 47). The new structure distinguishes clearly the role of each
sectoral agency, as described in para. 50. It is the Government's
intention that PADCT would be a net addition to projected financing of R
and D activities.
40.       PADCT plans to provide about US$359 million over a five-year
period to support needed incremental investment for research and human
resources and to strengthen the provision of services to the sector as
noted in para. 37. PADCr addresses sectoral issues by: (a) providing
funds for research and human resources development within six oriented
programs selected by CNPq's Scientific and Technological Council; (b)
clearly establishing tire responsibility of each intermediary agency in



- 12 -
carrying ocm PADCT; (c) ensuring that only one intermediary agency will
have reponsibility for a given subproject and would provide multiyear
financial support; and (d) establishing four National Programs to deal with
service deficiencies within the sector.
Bank Experience in the Sector
41.       The Bank has made three previous loans to Brazil for research and
development. Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR for the Corporation for
Agricultural Research (Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisas Agropecuarias -
EMBRAPA) were designed to support applied research on farming systems and
crop-specific production technology. Both loans have been effective in
supporting and disseminating research results, as well as belping to
improve EMBRAPA's capacity to manage research. These previous Bank
efforts, which have been complemented by finance for research efforts in
energy (including alcohol and hydroelectric power) and sewerage technology,
were made through intermediaries whose mandate is limited to specific types
of research activities. The Bank's support for PADCT would provide support
to address those critical issues which are holding back overall
productivity of R and D efforts, and would enhance ongoing and future
sector-specific support by the Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       This project was prepared under CNPq's coordination with
assistance f-om the Bank. The project was appraised between July 1983 and
January 1984, and negotiations were beld from December 17 to 21, 1984 .
The Brazilian delegation was headed by Mr. Waldimir P. e Longo, of SEPLAN.
A staff appraisal report entitled BRAZIL - Project for Science and
Technology  (No. 5153-BR dated January 8, 1985) has been distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
Project Objectives
43.       The project would improve the decision-making and project-
funding systems in science and technology research and human resources
development, as well as the provision of needed services to improve the
productivity of overall sectoral efforts. The project consists of a
time-slice of the PADCT 1984-88 investment program. Two kinds of
investments would be carried out during this period. First, US$151.8
million would be provided for about a thousand specific projects for
research and human resoarces development for six oriented programs; the
projects would be selected on the basis of a peer review process. Second,
US$58.2 million would be provided for science and technology services
through four National programs, which would be directed primarily towards
investment in existing facilities for maintenance and repair of scientific
and research equipment, provision of research inputs and consumables,
development of science information services, and basic irnaustrial
technology. The consolidated activities to be undertaken are mutually
reinforcing, but project design ensures that each program could continue
should programmed activities in another lag behind. The specific areas of
support are described briefly below.



- 13 -
Oriented Prograr-s
44.       The six scientific fields targeted by PADCT were chosen from a
much broader list of priority areas because of their significance for
economic development and because they had received insufficient e-tention
in the past. They are:
(i)  Biotechnology:  research and human resources development
*                      related to health, agriculture and energy.
(ii) Chemistry/Chemical Engineering: -cesearch and human
*                      resources development in organic and inorganic technology,
electrochemical processes, pharmaceuticals and high density
petroleum technology.
(iii)  Geosciences/Mineral Technology:  research and human
resources development focusing on the applications of
gecsciences for exploration and analysis of minerals,
and of engineering for mining and refining technology.
{iv) Instrumentation: attention would be focused on priority
needs in industrial process control, biomedical application,
and electronic measurement and testing. Human resources
would be developed to strengthen the capacity for
development and production of instruments.
Xv)  Science Education:  science education activities would
support development of regional groups in science education
to improve science teaching for primary and secondary
grades, through research on learning, development of
curricular materials, teacher training and community
activities.
Cvi) Science Planning/Management:  science planning and
management activities would support training for science
managers and policy makers and improvement in science policy
planning.
National Services Programs
45.       The four service programs selected for inclusion in PADCT address
key constraints which reduce the productivity and efficiency of all
Brazilian R and D activities. They are:
(i)  Basic Industrial Technology:  This program consists of four
elements: (a) Brazil's metrological capacity would be
upgraded by equipping its principal laboratory to
international standards; (b) training of technicians in
basic industrial activities, especially quality control;
strengthening of research and teaching activities related to
basic technology in institutions of higher education; and
development of educational materials on technology
management; (c) technical information services on patents
and materials and equipment standards would be upgraded, and
regional and sectoral information centers would be



- 14 -
developed; and (d) studies would be undertaken on industrial
and technological issues and policies.
(ii) Science Information: This program would support efforts to
improve the quality and availability of technical
information to scientists and researchers by improving
formal academic training in library and information science;
improving non-degree training in information services;
strengthening the management structure of Brazil's Institute
for Scientific and Technological tnformation; supporting
development of information services pr )vided by professional
societies including strengthening the access to computerized
data bases; supporting research and development in
information handling techniques; supporting development of a
public access system for data bases, improved classification
systems and bibliographies; and providing links with
external information services.
(iii) Reagents/Research Consumables Program: This program would
provide for more effective distribution and provision of
research consumables to researchers by establishing a
network of about 7 supply centers and centralizing
importation of needed materials. The program would also
support research and development of local reagent sources.
(iv) Repair/Maintenance: This program would provide for improved
efficiency and quality in the repair and maintenance of
scientific equipment. Studies would be undertaken to
determine the scope of equipment to be maintained, and the
types of service required by the research community. On the
basis of these studies, a network of maintenance centers
would be established, including 15 national centers, about
25 regional centers, and up to 100 local specialized
maintenance units. The purchase and inventory of imported
parts for equipment would be centralized. FINEP would
coordinate the inventory of the various centers to ensure
that provision of spare parts would be cost effective. In
addition, the program would provide for the publication of
equipment service manuals, production of spare parts for
various types of imported equipment for which spare parts
are not easily obtainable, and training of technicians to
staff the service centers.
Project Organization and Implementation
46.       Direct management of PADCT would be undertaken by the Executive
Secretary for the program, who would have responsibility for overall
coordination among the four agencies participating in the program, defining
budgetary allocations among subprograms and agencies for purposes of
preparation of the annual operating plan, and for assuring that PADCT
guidelines with respect to content and project selection are observed
during program implementation. The Executive Secretary maintains an
advisory group which consists of a representative from each of the
intermediary agencies, and which serves as a forum to discuss and resolve
potential inter-agency conflicts. The Executive Secretary receives policy
guidance through a committee of the Scientific and Technological Council
set up to oversee PADCT's planning and implementation.



- 15 -
Oriented Programs
47.       About twice a year, the Executive Secretary will issue a PADCT
announcement indicating that PADCT is accepting research and human
resources development proposals in each of the oriented programs for
funding. Earh completed proposal is sent for review to whichever of the
four intermediary agencies is best suited to evaluate and sponsor the
proposal, as indicated in the announcement. A system of peer review has
been established, which would help ensure that proposals are in compliance
X         with the subprogram guidelines, that they are technically feasible, and
that adequate resources have been requested. The peer review is carried
out by Appraisal Committees (CA), drawn from a central pool of practicing
scientists and with a representative from each intermediary agency.  On the
basis of its review, the CA ranks the research proposals by priority; any
disagreement by the agency head with the selection of a subproject would be
explained in writing to the CA, but the agency head could select the next
priority subproject submitted by the CA for financing. Proposals which are
approved for PADCT are spoosored, financed, and supervised by only one
agency. On the basis of a test phase, in which about 2,500 specific
subproject proposals were appraised, these procedures were found to be
workable, and to improve the interaction between scientists and government
agencies responsible for funding. In addition, the introduction of
one-stop- funding for all proposals, and of multi-year financial
commitments for approved projects, should provide for greater continuity
and productivity in research and human resources development endeavors.
All procedures for review and evaluation of subprojects under PADCT are set
forth in detail in the Basic Document of the PADCT. Only subprojects
recommended by the CA would be included in PADCT and financed by the Bank
(Section 1.02(h) of the Loan Agreement). Subprojects for energy and
agriculture which overlap with other ongoing Bank funded research would not
be expected ,o be financed by the Bank. The content of PADCT and the
standards for subprojects would not be substantially modified without the
approval of the Bank (Section 3.01(g) of the Loan Agreement).
National Science Service Programs
48.       The National Service Programs would be carried out as follows:
(a)  FINEP:  Repair and Maintenance Program and the
Reagents/Research Consumables Program;
(b) CNPq: Science Information Program; and
(c) STI: Basic Industrial Technology Program.
These programs would serve the entire science and technology community,
including those fields ^ tside PADCT. Each National Services Program would
have a manager, who reports to the President of the responsible agency.
The manager would be responsible for ensuring: (i) that the works which
are undertaken in the programs are responsive to the needs of the users;
(ii) that they are cost-effective and well coordinated; (iii) that
successive actions are undertaken after careful analysis of ongoing
operations; and (iv) that actions by other agencies are executed on a



- 16 -
timely basis. In order to ensure that the specific type of service to be
provided is responsive to the user community, the manager would make use of
a group of advisors to examine the scientific content and feasibility of
specific subprojects to be carried out, and to advise the manager of any
changes required in order that more appropriate services be provided.
Project Beneficiaries and Monitoring and Evaluation
49.       Beneficiary institutions would include universities, public and
private research institutes, and relevant government agencies which are
capable of preparing and implementing subproject proposals. Military and
paramilitary institutions, subprojects with military or paramilitary
purposes, or subprojects financed through FINEP's loan system, are excluded
(Sections 1.02(g) and (h) and 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement). Each
subproject's performance will be reviewed by the intermediary agency
responsible, with active involvement of the CA. Overall subprogram
performance will be reviewed by the Technical Group which prepared the
original subprogram proposal. Finally, a Review and Advisory Group would
meet semi-annually to examine and formulate recommendations on the
significance and quality of scientific and technological activities in the
PADCT program, the subproject and program management activities of the
PADCT funding and coordinating entities, and the experience of subproject
implementing entities. The Review and Advisory Group would be maintained
for the duration of the PADCT, functioning under terms of reference agreed
with the Bank (Section 3.01(f) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total PADCT investment costs, including incremental
administrative costs, for the 1984-86 period are estimated at about
US$215.4 million, of which about US$73.2 million is foreign exchange and
US$142.2 million local costs. No price or physical contingencies were
included in project costs, since the funding level was determined by the
government's estimate of available resourcs for PADCT, and subprojects
would be limited to the amount of funds available. Any change in
allocation of finance among subprograms would require agreement by the Bank
(Section 3.01(e) of the Loan Agreement). PADCT resources are expected to
be incremental resources made available to the sector, and are not expected
to result in a decline in available resources to ongoing science and
technology programs. A breakdown of the estimated cost is shown in the
loan and project summary on page ii.  The proposed Bank loan of US$72.0
million, including about US$0.2 million for the capitalized front-end fee,
would finance about 33% of total project costs, equivalent approximately to
the foreign exchange costs. Retroactive financing of about US$7.0 million
would be permitted to help cover eligible expenditures after January 1,
1984, with the exception of the science education subprogram, for which
retroactive financing is permitted for eligible expendures after July 31,
1983. This is because the science education subprogram was prepared well
in advance of other subprograms.
Procurement and Consulting Services
51.       ICB would apply for all contracts for goods estimated to cost
US$300,000 or more. Limited internation.-al bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank would apply for goods contracts of US$15,000-300,O00. A list of



- 17 -
suppliers for this purpose would be developed according to a plan
acceptable to the Bank. Below that level, local or international shopping
would be allowed. In some cases, the appraisal committee may recommend
sole source purchases, up to US$200,000 within any subproject. Should any
recommendation for such procurement exceed US$200,000, the recommendation
would be reviewed by the Bank.
52.       In order to avoid difficulties in obtaining import licenses from
the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Banco do Brasil (CACEX) or authority from
the Secretaria de Informatica (SEI) a number of arrangements have been
made. First, CACEX would review ex post licenses for spare parts,
r         reagents, and other research consumables up to an annual limit appropriate
for PADCT requirements.  Second, SEI wou-  iuthorize, for the purposes of
PADCT, that CNPq approval of imports of microelectronic equipment and
components to be paid for with proceeds of the loan would substitute for
SEI's, insofar as such equipment is consistent with the purposes and
objectives of PADCT and included in approved PADCT subprojects (Section
5.01(f) of the Loan Agreement).
53.       Consultant contracts exceeding US$500,000 would be submitted for
prior approval to the Bank. The intermediary agencies would review, for
sub-projects they sponsor, consultant contracts in excess of US$150,000, or
if a subproject has two or mcre contracts over US$100,000, each of those
corntracts over such amount.
Disbursements
54.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed at a rate of
100% for PADCT's foreign expenditures, including incremental foreign
administrative costs. The loan would initially finance 100% of incremental
local administrative costs, which would be reduced progressively to a level
of 30% by the time disbursements under this category have reached
US$3,680,000.
55.       The Government would request the Bank to make advance payment of
up to US$1.0 million into a Special Account opened in the Central Bank.
Conversion from US dollars to cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of expenditures. A second Special Account, with a
deposit of up to US$5.0 million and established and operated by FINEP,
would be authorized by the Central Bank, and would be held by the Banco do
Brasil in New York to pay direct foreign expenditures of less than
US$100,000.  Foreign expenditures in excess of US$100,000 would be made on
the basis of fully documented withdrawal applications forwarded directly to
the Bank. Disbursements for expenditures up to US$100,000 would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure.
Accounts and Audits
56.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. Copies of
the audit report on the various participating agencies would be provided to
the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year and the Special
Accounts would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Project Benefits
57.       PADCT ie expected to improve the productivity of the science and
technology development sector by improving the relevance, effectiveness,
and efficiency of reoserch and scientific education. The improved
management of science should assure that obstacles to utilization of
science and technology to support economic growth would be reduced.
Specific outcomes of research subprojects (above and beyontd more and better
trained people resulting from human resource development subprojects and
aure widely available crucial inputs for science and technology resulting
from service subprojects) are expected in such areas as: (i) prospecting
and beneficiation technology for minerals with which Brazil is richly
endowed; (1i) genetic engineering to control diseases and pests which
constrain agricultural output; (iii) pharmaceuticals for diagnostic and
therapeutic use in both buman and food animal populations; and (iv) more
efficient utilization of unique (or uniquely abundant) Brazilian natural
products. PADCT should also assist the sector in improving its capacity to
use and adapt foreign technology by fostering better training of human
resources, providing better equipment and facilities to researchers, and
increasing the interaction of Brazilian and non-Brazilian Scientists.
Finally, the institutional changes which have been made a part of PADCT
should place the sector in a better position to allocate and use resources
in the future.
Project Risks
58.       The main risk for the project is that inefficient program
coordination could result in slower than expected PADCT implementation.
This risk is also a result of the upcoming change in Federal Government
which could affect the staffing of the key sectoral agencies responsible
for direct management of the PADCT. To the extent possible, this risk has
been minimized by first, testing the subproject appraisal procedures in the
field during the Bank's appraisal of PADCT. This Otest" phase resulted in
identifying likely procedural bottlenecks and necessary modifications were
adopted. Second, the risk has been minimized by providing for broad
involvement of middle level staff of the key sectoral agencies and
representation of the scientific community in program design, project
decisions and implementation procedures. It is less likely that this level
of personnel would be subject to major turnover as the result of the change
in government. The involvement of representatives of the scientific
community also helps to ensure that PADCT implementation would not depend
exclusively on the key sectoral agencies.
59.       A second risk is that implementation of some subprograms, would
go forward in a manner inconsistent with the PADCT guidelines, since four
intermediary agencies are involved, as well as hundreds of beneficiaries,
and it will not be possible to supervise in detail each activity. This has
been addressed by providing semi-annual reviews of progress by the Review
and Advisory Group and a more comprehensive review in mid-1986.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTRORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article



- 19 -
III, Section 4(iii) of the Article of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. A condition of effectiveness would be
presentation of a plan, In a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to develop
and maintain a list of equipment suppliers (para. 51). Special conditions
of the projeet are listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 10, 1985
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
-                                           Page  1 of 5
BRZIL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IL                                 GUERC  GROUPS (WECSTED AVUACIS) Ic
IIOST              (HOST RCEcNT EsBTI.-c) lb   -
iRCENT        NIODLE INCO1         IC.DDLE INCOME
1960b 197ab    IESTINAIIk   LAT. AIRICA 6 CAR                 EUROPE
a (noUns sQ. M)
TUTAL                           8512.0      6512.0      8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                    1636.4       1981.2     2352.7
GP 1U CAPITA (U")                   330.0       600.0      2240.0          210.6                    2345.3
nE   CDURONU PEn CTA
(KILOGRAMS OP OIL EQUIVALENT)    284.0       412.0       740.0           "95.5                   1122.8
POPULATioN AND VITAL STISTICS
POPULATION.H1D-YP.AB (TNOUSANDB)  72594.0  95847.0   126SDS.0
URAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)      44.9        55.6       68.8            688.                      46.6                           p
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                         181.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                           303.6
IOrULATION MOMENTUM                                      1.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ko.                      6.3         11.3       14.6             35.7                    82.9
reR SQ. M. ARI. LAND            44.4        48.4        32.7            92.4                    158.9
POPULArIoN ACE STRUCTURE (2)
U-14 YES                       43.6        42.7        40.9             39.9                    31.6
15-64 YRS                       53.8        54.3        55.6            58.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                     2.6         3.1         3.5             4.1                      7.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (C)
TOTAL                            3.1         2.8         2.3              2.4                     1.6
URBAN                            5.7         5.0         4.1             3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TROUS)      42.7        35.0        31.2            31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)      12.9        10.3        6.1              6.1                      8.6
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0         2.4         1.9             2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCETS, AUAL (THUIS)              ..        111.0      203.6 Jc
USERS CZ OF HARRIED WOMEN)        ..                                    40.3
POD - NEDITIOR
INDEX OF FWD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0       102.0       133.0           114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z Of REQUIREMENTS)   108.0        104.0      107.0            110.8                   128.b
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        64.0        6:.o       60.0             67.3                     69.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND ULSE      35.0         34.0       36.0 /d          34.1                    34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       19.4        12.5        8.0              5.7                      5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     54.7        58.9       63.8             64.7                     67.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (CER THOUS)    118.2        98.6       73.4             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                              .        55.0        77.1 /e         65.4
URBAX                             ..        78.0       66.87T           78.1
RURAL                             ..        28.0        56.8 7;         46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPosAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TorAL                             *.        58.0        64.8 Ie         52.9
URBAN                             ..        85.0       83.7 7F          67.0
KURAL                             ..        24.0        31.7 7          24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2210.0      2130.0         ..           1917.7                   1065.8
Pop. PER SSING PERSON           2810.0      1120.0         ..            815.8                    7b4.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
ToTAL                          310.0       270.0       250.0 /e         367.2                   326.3
LURBN                          250.0       320.0         ..            411.5                    201.5
RURAL                                          - '  ''                 2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        18.4         ..             27.3                     20.0
HOUSEW
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1         4.8         4.9 le
URBAN                             .          4.6        4.7 7;e
RURAL                             ..         5.2         5.3 7T.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOD
TOTAL                             ,.         1.1         ..               ..
URBAN                             ,,         1.0
RURAL                             ..         1.2         ..               ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF SIELLIUC)
TOTAL                           38.7        47.6        67.4
URsAN                             ..        75.6        88.5
RURAL                             ..         8.4        20.6



ANNEX I
-21 -                                                Page 2 of 5
RlU12tL                - SCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RAL                                  REFttENCE CRouPS (VfIGTED AVRRAGEs) fr
MOST                (MOST RECENT ESTISMAT) jb
RCENT         MIDDLE INCEX            MIDDL. INCAME
1960      197        ESTzMATBk    LAT. AMERICA A CAR             EUROPE
ADJUSTD  SOLUAENT RATIOS
PIHKAYI'   TOTAL                  95.0         54.0       93.0 &A          105.4                     111. I
MAWL                   97.0         94.0        93.0            106.3                     105.5
FEKLE                  93.0         84.0        93.0  ..        104.5                      96.7
S*CONDAXTs TOTAL                  11.0         26.0       32.0              43.2                     59.1
MALE                   11.0         26.0        29.0             42.3                      6. 9
FEMALE                 10.0         27.0        33.0 /Ah         44.5                      50.6
V     OCATIOAL CX OF UECONDARY)     16.6         16.7       59.2 Ih           33.6                     21.6
PUPZL-TEACIER IATIO
PIIMARY                           33.0         28.0       26.0 Jr           30.1                     25.1
SECONDARY                         13.0         13.0       14.0              16.8                     20.5
ADULT LlTERACY RATE (C)             61.0         66.Z       76.0 /.           79.5                      75.6
PASSEUJR CARI/TNOUSAND P0O           7.6         16.6       46.9              46.0                     54.7
RADIO RECZCVERJ/THNUSAND POP        65.4        109.4      165.1             225.6                     164.9
TV RECUIVERS/TDOUSAID POP           16.5         44.3       119.7            107.2                     123.8
NEWSPAPEt ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPUATION            52.9         35.6       44.0 /h           63.5                      90.3
CINM  AUAL ATTENDANCECAIPITA         4.4          2.0         1.5 A            2.8                       2.9
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THO1S)        23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
FEMALE (PERCEIIT)                 17.2         20.1       21.2              23.2                      34.5
A5RICULTURE (PERCE)               51.9         45.6       29.9              31.5                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8         18.3       24.4              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             32.1         31.7        31.8             32.2                     42.9
MAEZ                              52.7         50.3       48.9              49.3                      54.7
FEzMlE                            11.2         12.8       14.8              15.2                     31.0
ECNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATI              1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
S     =nON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 oF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
HICHEST 2O1 OP lOUSEHLDS          60.0         63.5       62.0 .c
LOWEST 201 DF HOUSEHOLDS           3.8          3.2        2.8 7.                                       *-
LOVZEST 407 OF HOUSE'OLDS         10.8          9.0        9.4 7W.
-O        s TACT  OM
ESTMATED ABSOLUTE POVER  INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPIA)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..             288.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       150.0 Id          184.0
ESTMATED RELATIVE POVERTTY INCOME
IZ9LE (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       465.0 /d          522.8
RURAL                               *-           *-      332.0 7T          372.4
ESTIMATED POP. fELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPIBLE
N OT E S
/a   Mm group avrages for each indicator are populntion-sighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and in not uniform.
/b   Unlesa  otherwise noted. "Date for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970" betseen 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat lacent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1979; /c  egnning 1973 primary and secondary education cower age groups 7-15 and 15-17
Instead of 7-1lend il-In *arlier years; therefore. most recent estimates are not coaparable with earlier data;
/h 1978.
JUMnL 1984



- 22 -                                                                   Am, EX I
zge 3 of 5
IM     .6w 1  n  an1   1a.8    46-6131,                       1w 1643111,w   unoft, se %n6.t6 mam a.  fmo  own  ~  ow            -
fm18  t.8 2,        cmat. .8-1u ams 8n  -a          w 6688  doem11    mmvs,B               0  w-M  t     0.mmmm~~-                 
an    -      - (11 an   -     -      1 a  ana    at  an- (92 911             1                      tL     1    ni.,~1a
U.aM- -   (catCal 0 6.6           -W6t   m 811  0611 9  -wc--o -M.6  at  at  .t. an 6668 6666s Id6 at             8 1,    W-Of - m   .I o
_tathi. 11 an .       -       1w Mgt _-- ft... am *  *_ _1                                          m .- _         -_      81 fm _1_ ---
s____X1a____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~09--f   ft No-_ w                                     _          _           ___S.
dm                                       --W m-Nrw--a ". - _ _ . _ - _ _ _ _ _._ -   .                                                w_t? to
-w  b       v ...66.)                               ~8~                                         1    - - _ _ v _ _ _ _3-_ _t,
W_ _  r_ . . .   :_                                                                                    _ * -  .  _ S _-P6_ 12w __11466.8 atI .14t
_      u           _           _ .81    _1 wlal1w                                _     _ F- tatl1  ...t.8  9l___.1.a61n    w   11111a.
1_ .1e_   . _ - _  an aa_    -   __ _ U. __z.  a.                       a_661t.81
_66.1 866 a-n..                                         -_ls                   -1 1wl. _ d                                              t_ 
86w. _n   .t 81a         caB. at_9       at _11(1
fm~~~~~ _1T  _61 -_| _n _anr __. 6 l      w  -~819.                           61d 16 *at an__.             an16811   (6
_ ___. 1916. an 1w a___ .'.                         _1  _1   -  6w111.6, 1118a  _66661612  _ _ _
ft~~   ~st~~E- _-  _ 
cm-    __r __ cm '_                    . ....         S.                        -1anw   .. 6666.. .t...a   .81..  -1.6...1.1.    __3_
-  m..81 .166118ayt I lIlean 81.6  ..866       Irm. 3-66966. It81 ~    ..816646.-1 1w1tftbm
aw'.                             ... ....0-am  .-m                                                  aw-p,mms.o  omw atancom  48.
_t1v, :: nw. two.__ -a_-I
s~~~~~~~-_ 1Z- _1 _66? ___  _w. __an_@. 82wr>->  __*
__satwi 12w. tanw                    ..... 6-.                                              A,_ _"81      ,1. .      w l   f _        s-
- == _ __ S ._..-  at 81 -11tin6  ft -                       _  _                                                    at
, _~         t_~    _    fe                                         - w  - -_ -  -_ _ 
(1.1w6-  - ...tala81wiw "  6.881                                                           -bf               Mm,8-0
- _ n-   -m-w 1-  mmu"ams,        -      _ _                       an. ._Z ,_.                     wia _ _    _ta -__
-bw uf11i 1 =             -1.6  tin       1    -      . -                 ..1 1l, 1.82iw                      t1L91 1w8
1w    at t6. a                             _w8.  *_ awXf .181 1                   r 77 . 9                            V  M__
I,- 11   I-L.           U~   w.w1wi             .1.8  ..8  6w anO                   M       IMn  anll  .ata-86
-:  .861_1 r. _1t6 _1n66  8.4.6 _an  an _a  l__anipE
__w.  _  81_-. 1w  apI  1    w __ca _             1 . n 81,.8x                                    ____             _X          tE
-we dw  .=  ft-., san 9        _.          $-. _ L_ t - _ _ __a
Pt-- :mM -c_                                                             _|XE    wS.__,__ _ -                    .t  .e_e   X|
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m    2--- -1
__|_|_ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1. _.A                            ffi..L2m I_--- C-N                           V     WM _t   __     W..-tom ff
.-.1w an   .                  mc .8.  e.,6c _watt, *88 -. -                                       f       :8.-  l-n 4
_f a               i--e   -  _     _n M n  t.                      -m __M
1 w          _ . _Mb                2   96166-pa n-8-                                                                  -.w     8
anf 81.e   a     ta.1~ant   618a .a  a.tli  .6-atan 6-wla 1.811w 6w  at866L911  1             6  46t6w -0        81~l       ftaw
I                     Iw- WP ft6w 6     an __l                                             - _    __ _ fan la -w          -         at,
86..at1.      a.      w  mpt                           .-m4  w-.-...1w.         - -'U66111    wtn6
m-M                               f a    w.9a168t  IStms 6w b1w 618".at. -"1.F   I 12 ..                   81 -     m. at          n a
U-L- _- 1       _ 1w    -_   .           _                           6__                              -666_-i 
o     81       61t            _      nI _1 8 aI                                 t -oIt_ f.              ,_ _              _ n-          _ -
-_8      lt. _6    flL tt           tWt   1.6  168.                                C t.            rtZ_w -  _n   _ in  _ 
tn! .1 ! .1..                                                       tt..la .6.1.-m          - d .- .   etn624I
sa..61ala    tm.                                                        -f L    "     -IN l MM ..   .l.=    AL. -Er -cn   1 
,_- -__ _. -    w .4i..   _,_ ,t? an                 r  . Ih                                       6. -.
_~~~~~~ - C   _    _     _    _     _     __a.  116    II          _____
~~~~~~~~~W3M-.=     -_  _  _mf _t-_ _t__l_ *-t__-_ -0 -.                                                                          nos
66311~  616. 110. a  *2w4.6.                                           cas .8. -    -a    51.-r8m 1wm ft'I  *-c  an  8.. p-ms.  an -
at ~ ~  ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      ~     | _..    .z   _     _ _ *.  _' _1 awl 6..81l
am     a 8  tk. END-_                                                                                         4 t.  anftz   -L  6  6 d  _  6 - 4*_    81 .an_6  1.8 _   t.
-  161w  w     A..S    A t. .6w          81--6t~ "mma81    86668 anacaW. .0,
_.RM N          L    _|- &.z:t__,m m-                  ' t          '_-m- --                  r_ .       __v ,- L<                 TV
*_  _a.             * an 5966-81.9         _                             a-sa _     t. _  . _     . t n 8. *_-. t,  1 w68* _:.
__                  - _nI 16.8 bt.an _n _nca 81 _14-             _     0        a.O '.fan:  t. 6w *_n  a. an an .8               atd - WT  ef 1
S ______ __ _ S___ ___ Ir, _ _  _   _ _  a t  181-a-           t ,     6t69 (a             _      81w-9    i.9.1i 
_ z_                                                                                        4., ,  _ls _-a                df_ S
a      a  aw  t.                                                       aa  a..    a            a*. c  ao..-   a. 
_an a  _61. _t a_ cntn                   a   .an1                      at      a...-im fa  ta            * ta  - in _ w 
mIan        .    ll_| fl..-,    t_ 1w  a.. tw*. tn, _n                        .a.1   81 .    .    _n    a.'.  __ca -.  8..
a__                                                                           inanla _6an81 p11an(8. _     .1164t1 .1 _ _      .ft __ rt. n -
________a______________                  e___                                  1.11s_y-16            t atan._ l_                        -e _a 1. a
_                            _a I -, _,_ _,   ___  _  _ft_I-in   _                  -10-
11.6w  at  t -.    s    -a-_ d  --   -r                                                 r          _ 6w81 - 2w  a     81
Vfrt6..6.. -_1w. (1...  1 mIll. ats-4P   8.          -1- w-'d                                               .-L18. an,.
641w            -   9_ p_.anl.16681 in    wI  t -
11    -    w  a_ a. _ a   - -     _n maw.                             _                       - 6.&111 wa-I 16t. 6p-86  na  _
_w_ *- _176??                                _6.61a __ 1 _ U_. 1980 an 1163 an..t_I     Lt - 
`-m  -6' "    wla        46*'2-?  66      w.83           .U                   ?w1  Ct66t -    F1   lan    u       r.  ~~-  wenl   111  -q1I A-
aw         1_mmn W    tan  _ t0I 'w                         r         _                       - _hl NW     s  t__.46   tan.         _ n -
tan- a2n8 -_; r._    ,      sa.   Ot.         1e    p        .                *-._- caan 8 N. 1 1w   _* _ 616. _                   t16        two
_ antana   _eoc 6       *tl       t 2114- G.M16, an 6Fw an 1 1wI
Ian.                                                                    16lllOa.6 6611 (1.166112 - Ia.!.6m1 t_ w  U. _ _  81etw -
16. alt  awfr ip   .11      81  2wat6  -at  ..                            1.1666 1w         a      - 6.668.               22      a . M
ca.3'   ..61nIn   t1mda.-a,                         a. ..6oaf1apt-km 81tal 616a   1a8   .868818                                 ann.1.
_      -4 _ a-w  Iw t.       la _             X                                                           k__-_ J
a       w  LTm 1.8 -- 11661l1111-1                        dk16             1 .2 p616 -.81.8 M                 .Ia 2  -2 a-n  mo. -c W
_     -  Lt _         4"mt h__    S  r m& t_s  _ m_  "
anew. an 6w2w      88.I ans at.!e.. was    .    IS m .8i.6.EL-M                                -F (1wP.- l1-
rma  a  4.6.1.1. 81 pp.16ia an .1411(-m -F 68.8I.8 
So-" ft"   6961. 2__40an two   4 ~                                                 f1 9
w.anl,81f..4-    . 1W .an- m- 64- 166112.6 alt.- to1-                   Witn-.  11,d       ft".  man. -20 i-.t In p6.. 1-o        . -L
_ _Z  .11 _a           _t 86.p8. - ^           _ _ .6   n a8  ta
j1  61  66116911 l        In tm" 8114.11ftw 16w8.                                 -&-A 110416           Iw1..8  i.
2166 -a 1wt wi -y Wlift 6910 ane.11 e       I'm11..                     661168..261.  ft.66          on- -1w  166. ((  6666 ft6- lT6.6816
t_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- _mm                                                       - t_  rtew_ 
~~ __2 b_e                               C Lt.                     ag -~~  
an.1w    1at1 . --L --am,             $wAr 2fti   a-it 1                  .618  66t661w8                46  6    1il.-6wa   6.
ft- v       If,         -oa 1.  _. Ca _
ow  M &Qm,         vm"- -a            ~        .n.  1.116186w46611  1611  6. ..1C16-a
_ _NLIa     8 t_                                 81 t. _                               - _     81                              a
t_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ * _,_ __88an.                                              am
1.w  1..81666  anala)   a     m1  868w.a
_m 81e  S      _       6  12!am   96a   16a.



-23-
Pfn4 of S
Gw ftr Capita: cssZ.240 C19B2)
Inultarer             de~~~~~~~~~~t             4,eg~kzm  AmX  Iincrase CZ)             smar of CmIP at 3h8het Prce.w CZ)
.Punion Ms WEM                    Car c    nt 1970 Price) alt i)
1965-70    1970175    1 3     1961.46           1970      175       193  y
cta.a  _OiC   et                              209.801                2.7      10.G       6.9        1.9           0L0       100.0       0.0
A4riCUltur                                   21.19                 1.9       5.7       4.7        2.2           10.2       10.9       10.1
itatry                                       77.41-               9.2       1l.6       7.4        1.9           33.6       37Z -    349
r              S     .                                      L11.195               3L0       10.7       6I.        1.6           56.0       51.9      53.0
cGv'apla                                       166 32               7.7        9.3       5.7        0.0           778        71.9      30.3
oams lcee.ann                                   37.t1                9.4      14.6       5.2       -4.4           27         32.1      17.7
Eapat  of Coeds a" Ws                          23.323               3.2       11I2       7.3      1I.0             6.7        7.4      11.3
Lapatt of Good and Ws                          19,59               14.5       VI 2       2.8        L_             7.2       11.4       9.3
Cross D utic S5Wtna                            41.169               7.9       12.9       6.1        2.7           22.2       23.       19.7
-   t                  Average  A1 Iices  CZ)              Cab%Nirim of maisd1ae Trae CZ)
(33121s an5 carmt)            (at canma 1970 Prices)                     ( at    Prices)
193                1970-75       197540     19U1-6                10 1U5                193
Ma*bn*mdI* Eapara                             21.399              iLlI           7.7          12.4                100.0       1w'.0     100.0
=i-,  ,                                     10W603              3.3           1 I.1                             76.7        62.7      46.4
-factrs di                                  11.106             Z.2           I3            19.5                 22.5        34.3.     5L6
Martbmoedia owct                               L5.429             14.3          -3.3          -0.6                100.0       1000      100.0
TO"d (ceraa)                                    6               -6.7          17.5          -L3                   4.5         3.0       6.3
-_trnam                                      6.179              7.6            4.3          -6.7                 11.2        25.6      53.0
Macbdnety ad T4.Ipm-  .                      2.505              1.2           -7.5          -0.3                 36.2        32.2      16.2
othe;                                         3.m               23.4          -1.9           13                  46.1    - 39.6        ;4.5
1975         1976         19T7          19?          19"          193          13         1g         19 3
Pricm md Term of Trade
Ci Doti to  (1970 - 1W)              305.1        4443          632.7        39z.5       1.399.4      2724.6    5.696ss     11.100.3   23.272.4
Eatbn3 late CCrSIISS)                  3.1         10.6          16.1         1t.1 -       2b.9          52.7       9      -  130.l -0    577.1
aport Cte inder (1970 - 100)         176.0        192.0         22S.0        221.0        26.0          Zb-O       252.0       225.1      191.7
l-poct Prie Ica  (1970 - 100)        242.0        255.0         236.0        317.0        339.0         431.0      474.0       5220       4935
Term of Tre Index (1970 - 100)        72.0         75.0          79.0 7e2                  63.0          67.0       53.0        43.1       33.8
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Z- of awI
(at Carrms Crotdre tl rm)
1970          1975           L979           1960 #     . . Il .!     g
Public rinoor (C*ntr al Cevermm, n)
Corrc anmna                                                             16.6           19.3           20.8           201L         1L9    21.2
currect EaediDte                                                        14.4           15.6           17.6           19.3        20.2    25.4
Surplus C-( or defic C-)                                                 2.2           4.0             3.2            0.3        -i-4    -4.2
Capital ESpOicr                                                          2.6           3.8             3.7            4.1          3.5     3.4
Vinanein  Cabe)                                                          0.4           -0.2            0.5            3.9          6.9     7.6
1965-70         1970-75         1976-r             1961-16
Otber Indicators
CWGrmrb C Rte CZ)                                                       7.7             10.7             6.6                1.S
Cw per Capita Grser  ar,e (1)                                           6.6             7.7              6.0               -0.6
Zcra cams ioc Cad    uthb Rate C(:)                                     7.2              B.7             6.6                -
IMIt                                                                    2.9             e.'             4.3                13.0
Pargital Saeiq  Rate fU                                                20.5             2.9              7.6               33.7
7_ort Elaticit  f/ -                                                    2.2             1.6            -0.1                 0
aj  AC _rket p        Conened at averae   achoe cara.
_I  ifatiante.
if  include corran Chinm mo avslble). tcer awricLazaral produces. andtnereau.
dt  Incldes _nfacrad  a m  _pdacead p_ndecta.
Ir Inclume. zrraporrarisa anteriala.
II  Te 193I-  pro2ectlgga ar calcelatud uai.9 the least square atbod.
if  19-1932 Incude h          tempeure  etiected -tchf-   the somezy budetC sd          a_m_ governamet fud. a _ellU _n cmfer  to the
federal eitterpriaea.
Soarcec CoAjunrura Emoucamc. FGW; Rmoot Cntral de Rausil: treatl Standard Ibis! (MacId Book).                                  Decueber 20. 1936



-24-
3~~ZA~ 35 P4w.  ETOL  CFI?41 a    Mr                                                                      am= I
(33U1    o  3.10.6)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rw3**3 I 
P~1I.      333.4 9313.- (1932
3ACIL                                                9*JIamD ki
19         1973       192         1*         1939        13W        t3n1           1"a2       315          1q4        19*        39
W       ,    t-a _3               _ _.702  _au1    _4.V3                             -e1033    -W3039    -32.5l3   -13.173            34.30        .IT      .2.3)5      -4.165    -3.WD
1.P.."  t a""                                    6.370       M.t23     t1.1         Ms"       15.5"   U     .,2       3.293          M.1*  21.3,           24.511      30.331    34.I&3
l9.o   r 104t                                  -1 la0     _-2.33)    -12.023    -13.,2       -1.00       -.95 _ZZ t   -22.3        -39_97    -15.4"       -14.397    -11.015   -20.372
9t ft. 1am                                      -1.733      -2.339     -2.33       -3.25      -4.21,      -6.21      -9_5          -:2.4m      -to.3n3    -2.2_       -13.714   -t5.2
"   W.%  F mS_t mff          )  */          (1.4         t-t.stl D C-2.,03)   E.Ot)    -4:3    C6.310} C_,.11 ) { 41 -lI,e    C- *.$s)5 C- 901)  C-11.,9  (-II.UG5
m                                               -t, I.4Y    -Z.574     -.3a2    -1.M          -2jM        -3.120     -2.WV                      -2.32      -Z.."       -3.79    -41e33
C C_ tF . i                                            2           I          -         71          1B         1ee        1                           --
-33    -    31..                     -3.700     -3.017      _40937      -         -.0IW -0.0-,1    -1.93    .10.97      -            -4.171     -._*335    -4.13      -5.3m0
3273. CC19003 1599*3535                              392         959        an        1.071      1.391       1.t1210    133              991         35        m1e          732      701
3.22 I     (c                                      4.*30       S.5        5.330      10.013   C .27          3,473A     9.43 _i        3.4         3.797   J .147         La"       S.291
3333._935                                      3t.92)    (6.1")    (9.23 3       (15.3)   (11.723)   (30.0o0)   (3 7.35)           1M77.7.    (7.31      (17,073)   113*993)  (C4.32)
t-2.i523    (-_31)     -3.*333  t-5.3)   (-.431)   (3.0              -766)          1-7*333    C-3.533    (4          -13 (.133   -14.067)
*31..3     ,-3   (.00)                         .190        .744       .237        .352       -o10         141       -M0             533b        123       .400      .1.03     -1.430
e ol1t=   _.t_ dJt                                   21n         93      -1.32         -An         329        .033      1.313          4.011       3.574     -3.3L2       3.Y49         -
O      1 t.     .*                                     93       - 1.19'      -3o       -4.132      3.215       5.321       -7            4.03           2J     -5.teo      -1.07     -1.197
1.z.fs.93o1    _..-. 3,               *.043                      3.5s 4     7.23       11.39       9.w9       3913        7.300          50          3.3e0      7.330      3.&M       9.352
_        39 _ v 5 S                                         3.3        7.2         0.3        *4          3.e        4.1            2.2         3_2        4.?         4.4       4-1
797        1333        393        1976i       1979 -      9          3933           3932       393 -_
E.t- 8t Dbt
-.14  3312 4.3   .39.u         1d        _         3 Z3      __ 28.43     32.303     43*413     51.532      54.335     *3.t2          70.e0    7-9.3
F.3-. .  P.11                                    13.703     37.3&9      z1.5       30.23      15.374      38.260     43.023         47.30       3*.033
6et1.1.&                                 -     3.959       ..31       4.717       5.303      5.339       3.41.      7.2"4 217a                1o_a03
all                                           (1.093)    (1.217)    (1.413)    (I.NU)       CIA=)    (.0603)    (2.3193           (2.724      (3.6355
etb-                                           (2.333)    (3.214)    (3.30)    (337")    (4.0&2)    (4.347)    (4.953            (CS.49)    (3.4033
.... _ro                                        e9.747      2.914    13.37       2M33       29.339      33 .        k 33.376      3D.431 4*.030
791.  535e _ d                                   *,Y 9.592  11.135     33.005 1u.132           1.S,       16.305     39. 72         23.031      21.SC2
~49W93  4*31 (1.32 t    5p 1 c  ay)                3.379       -.er*,   S.-           0.359     32.9        32 I.,W    34.95          331007   -J,3. I
7.1.1 _7 - 32s9Wss         sT.0 3332 1E* 331                   3.10 e     9*.a2      11.36      31.72       3.035      15.059         12.,7"       7.330
,33347    993I13l-  w4m*39                        3.73        9         3.422      10.333      9.152       3.,39      5.937          7.915       1.09S
00 0105 .1 *35  1C.d11                           42*         605        139         903        "a3         467                       on3)      1.02
l two                                     OS                                                  30.         363                       on        I 25  ,e
h-                                            It20       III        2           15 5                   le: 3 3     X37           323       1.Zia
9*..  111t2.1.                                   119         11)         *2        3IX         293         192        130            233         233
p.s.   m.                                      _2 991      4.135      ..3.2      *9.213 3    ajo          ."Z       S,                1        4.3571
=319*3 5353935351596 3d194                                   3;).9      3.633       5.0.3      2.,3    3.192          6.o.1          4.s.         2n
=.  *1 d   ..    p    * L4.15   S                               322      5.,`2      3.232      11.147      t3.135     14.39          33.32       it.20
251.3.51 (t'3)                                  (1.577      (.1.273 3    _.511    (2..57)    (O_DD)    (S.4123    (7.773             9. 2S-I     7.372
Z a 39.s 3 43S 33.0                                      59.,        .o I       30-.       63.0    Y 0.0          38_1           75.3        47.4
P.Y. _ Z    Q 9*                                       2.9        27_         xe         L_7         4.3        4.3         S.4            5.3        5.3
t_1      3.5          1   4.3t (Z) Ilt           *.,.        -          3          9.9       31.2         IL7        15.2           32.7        11.4
00(30141 _3.73.                          -7.7                      79         *.          73          .1         9.1        *-.           10.9        10.5
_et9*. am139 _9 9* e 11_3 5e 9 e9.0                                 13.)      l1.0         30.0       13.5         -.a        3.1           30.9    *    .3
143 3151 sam.                                         14.         14.3       13.1        14.5       14.0        1L9        1Z"            1357        12.9
1311         .3 .J                                                93          5.          .         1132         *:7       3e             302          .
gasp     L._ *..                                                    3           1                    3.3        Xs    *      .3            5.9        4.3
19W *_..-WMfr..a 8D d .b              o    (Z)         3.5        2.1         3.2        1.!         3.3        5    3       ..3            9        339 1.4
Dee 43  .3C _.11 (2)                                   2.5        3.2         5.7        2.7         2.2        2.1         2.2            2.5   *     .3
A.   t .   1 ML37 d.3  K.1C1w1
3.r0                                                                     t3.    r3 0...30.   W2
d13 . 914   5                           n9
3.103303. 4.. .10. 30 ,.                                                      95
-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..D. 2e, 195
Lrdu             7       el".e__r   
Xar_  _.Y            rs_ _4    _  - _
Cadlag d.Izr -L.WReIM W2t               _& etIUI  .1 dW-I  ~1,1
hi rMIdS-1Y                                        doUr__e _:1
It 7-PbU eecte  dC - 1e.
!7 *Cg    N.d-  _ft 2 t0rd M.W,
G-t_  a. or-El: Mt                   D. D... 19':}4 CEP>; L-r-



- 25 -
AR IT
Pope 1 of 3
M  STUS OF UlK GRW  OPERATIS IN BRAZIL
A. SUNK= STATQM    OF TAM
(As of Septer 30, 1984)
hwZ les  Thdis-
Iaon    Year           Borrower                  arnoe            Llatios bursed
Sixty-ffve I    fully disbursed                                 2,619.4
1075    1975 Brazi                           Roads                110.0       6.9
1llS   1975 C.panbSider            nacioal Imdstry                 95.0       1.7
112    1975 Cab  Sideaurgc Paulista Industry                      60.0      12.3
1195    1976 Brazil                         It-&al Development     12.0       2.3
1207-5  1976 Brazil                          Feeder Roads          55.0       2.7
1317    1976 Brazil                          Agro-Iidustry         83.0      27.0
1362    1977 State of Mlnas Gerals           Rural Dvelopcnt       42.0       2.2
1406    1977 Petrobras FertilIzantes         Fertilizer            2 Z         .5
1411    1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio       Fertllzer             55.0        .7
Grande S.A. - VALEFERtIL
1452    1977 Brazil                          Education             32.0      12.6
1488    1977 Brazil                         Rural Development      11.0       3.0
125    1978 Bunco Nacional da Eabitacao    Sewerage               110.0      57.6
1537    1978 Brazil                         Rural Development      24.0      14.8
1538    1978 ELET3})RAS                     Pbwer                 130.0      22.7
155     1978 Brazil                         Roads                 114.0      27.7
1562    1978 aDPESUL                        Peroxxicals           85.0         .9
1568    1978 Brazil                         Agric. Extension      100.0      26.1
1939    1978 Brazil                         Rural Development      37.0      18.0
165     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Sites and Services    93.0       11.7
1656    1979 Bnco Nacionalo da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage   100.0       22.3
1714    1979 Brazil                         Rural Developmnt       26.0      18.5
1720    1979 Brazil                          Urban Development     70.0      29.4
1721    1979 COPEL                           Power                109.0      31.4
1728    1979 Brazil                          Rural Development     40.0      24.9
1729    1979 Brazil                          Irr.gation            28.0       7.3
1730-5  1979 Brazil                          Roads                110.0      33.8
1822    1980 Brazil/BNIZ                     Pollution Control     58.0      56.8
1823    1980 Bn  Nacia  da Habitaao          Water Supply         130.0      31.3
1824    1980 CEFE                            Power                114.0      73.2
1839    1980 Brazil                         Urban Transport       159.0      53.0
185)    1980 Banco Nacianau da Nabitacao    Water Supply          139.0      42.4
1867    1980 Brazil                          Education             32.0      23.4
1877    1980 State of MUnas Gerais           Rural Development     63.0      52.8
1895    1980 ELETIFDSL                       Power                125.0      92.6
1924    1981 Brazil                         Rural Development      56.0      30.2
1939    1981 ETIROBRAS                      Power                  5.0       44.8



- 26                           I
P*r 2 of 3
A. sNII  sAU  mZ         0F  uAS (Contiaud)
(PA Of S"teptb 30, 1964)
le" Ibdia-
TAMn    Year           Borrower                   pao"        Cmcellstlam  boneud
(US$ NLilhiona)
1965    1961 mm                              Urbi Transport         90.0       63.4
1970    1981         acional dt fbbtaco      Water Suppy           180.0      12D.9
l989    1981 Brazil                          Alcohol DlweL*mmt  2M.0          139.2
2015    1981  Brazil                          Agicuttwe             29.0       19.0
2016    1981 Brazil                           Agricultu             60.0       27.2
2060    1982 Brazil                           Agrlcultore          67.0       39.5
2061    1982 Brazil                           Eadth                 13.0        6.9
2062    1982 Brazdil                          Higlys               240.0       88LS
2116    1982 Brazil                           Agriculture           26.4       18.0
2138    1982  &LzEISc                         Ebwer                182.7      1S2.9
2163     1982 Brazil                          Agriculture          -26.4       21.2
2170    1982 Brazil                           Urbn De1elapnmt    123.9        107.4
21277    L9.2  Bazil                          &rDsl Developmut      42.7       34.9
2193     1982 Brazil                          Urbn Development       8.9        6.8
2196    1982 CVM                             ixm Ore               304.5      148.8
2224    l982 BaZCil                           Feeder laids         154.0      137.7
2225    L982 BIN                              De P  Bmnki    220.0             5D.3
2249    1983 Bnocional da Usbitaa             Water SupPLy         302.3      251.8
2268    1983 Brazil                                   rr1          400.0      374.0
2269    1983 Brazil                            tal De1elopct        67.8       61.8
2343    1983 Brazil                          Urb1 n Develo_o        52.7       48.7
2347    1983 Brazil                          Export Developint    3S2.0        85.8
2348    1983 Brazil                          AgrELclture           303.0       10.0
233     1983 Brazil                          Agriculture            65.2       61.0
1729-1  1983 Brazil                          AIClture                7.7        7.7
2060-1  1983 Brazil                          Pariclture             22.8       22.7 -
2364    1983 Eletrobr                        Pber                  23D.6      227.9
2365    198  ELetrobra                        Pbver                222.8      202.0
2366    1983 Brazil                          Education              20.0       19.9
2412/1  1984  Brazil             6dumtion                           40.0       40.0
2M467r  1984 Brazil                           Federal  E*ways      210.0      210.0
26477r  1984  S     o of Sao PAUIlo            ealth                55.5       55.5
24487r  1964 Stae of Sm. Plo .ialth Studies                          2.0        2.0
Total                                              9,725.3 12
Of which bas been repald to tie Bak                1,S8.2
Tota;l      outstanudig                            8,137.1
lboLmt sold                            45.8
Of which be. been repaid             45.8            0.0
Total tw beld by Bank                              8,137.1
Total uzdisbursed                                             3,782.9
11 Not yet effective.
7T  so im credits bave bee ade to Brazil.
Note: 11e status of the projects loted In Part & Is dscribd In a separate report
an all Bm*JM flzumcal project. in mentio,  hidh In updated twin yearly
and circulated t the Ecutive Directo  an April 30 and October 31.



VI                       V~~~~~~II
VI
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           4 sE,
-~~~



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
PROJECT FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Suplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Elements
(a) Time taken to prepare project: two years
(b) Prepared through: Ministry of Planning with assistance of
CNPq, FINEP, CAPES, and STI
(c) Departure of final appraisal mission: January 1984
(d) Completion of negotiations: December 1985
Ce) Estimated loan effectiveness: March 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Ca) The content of PADCT and the standards for subprojects would not be
substantially modified without the approval of the Lank (para. 47);
Cb) Only research subprojects recommended by the CA would be included in
PADCT and financed by the Bank (para. 47);
(c) Subprojects with military of para-military objectives would not be
included in PADCT (para. 49);
(d) The Review and Advisory Group would be maintained for the duration of
the PADCT, functioning under terms of reference agreed with the Bank
(para. 49);
(e) Two Special Accounts, one in the Central Bank of Brazil and one
operated by FINEP in the Banco do Brasil, New York would be
established (para. 55);
(f) Project accounts and Special Accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 56).



(VENEZUELA                                 RIA~
.~O~   iB I.A-,/                    BooVsa,/ 
BIm
;N
v ---J     C ,oi b6              IF-ed m 
a                              Distre|t
BRASiLIA g
a   (   B O  L i V  I A         '.;   - -           /      Goionie F
- - - \ \. { t Campo Gronde            *
-20B     a       }I                                   i1-                  o                       <
' '~ 's                                       J i_ V  \PARAGUAY -
CHILE )                   \._s        \w      V                       Sao Paullo
)                                     0te        1-58        Curitiboa
SOUTHf                                                                                    Floriano3 Ais
\.g   BRAZIL Z I L                    A  R G   E  N-T  I
MI CA         fe"t                                                                                      I
Lr~ k;)Porto Alegre'
J -0tS           - ANr t t__ J ^ \ eat% KILOMETERS 0   IDO 20 300
AN                                                 URUGUitAYlStdhrF ( t so         MILES 0    1IW    2
. v   t'0S~,'   k   gURUGUAY @    5
_ < _ r_4 S d _>, ~~~



IBRD-15685 R
Q  2           {~~FRENCid         5                                                                        "   Y;
5 C=.SURINAME\;U1ANA>
$                 /       /     t
)  4.                                         A TLAAlTC                OCEAN
1}       t'  ->s Mocapa                                                                                   rr
I' '                                                                  N ,F-o!krilezo
/Teresina
| ,*)  4                 r                ~         ~       ~               t- -      Maceio
Il                                            - I
'ASoIvodor
Cubab                                   Federal
B/ RASILiA                   -
X               f      ~~~~~Gozi6nta
-~ ~    ~  /M                                 D:tic 
-  Cam  ,o Grunce                             Beloi-,S.
Horizonte
A         ALAf T  C
-GixAY  - X   -  50 Paulo
tN. ) e  i                              *       -      Rio de Janeiro
/oi      Z~
Curat,bc   -
-  Flor.cruooolis    +BRAZIL
: ~ q . -  - q                                                   0    National capital
- |  er \   Porto AlegWre"-                             *    State capitals
- ' S \ sc--rk ~~~KILOMET.ERS'  1,1 200 30C 40C 500                       State boundaries
.\   I VlES C    'o   20C,  3CC  --   International boundaries
-   gURUGUAY  (- Rivers
*->\   /   w                               *                                 ~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'  






