Document of
The World Bank
FOR OF1CIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13144
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(LOAN 2489-BR)
JUNE 14, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



F-ia] Year
January I to December 31
Currency lEquivalents
1982         US$I           =           Cruzeiro         Cr$179.50)
1983         US$1           =           Cruzeiro         Cr$57711X
1984         US$1I                      Cruzeiro       ('r$I ,R48tt)
1985         US$1           =           Cruciro        CrS62fX).(X)
1986         U1 S$ I                    Cruzado           ('1316,6
1987         U1551                      ('ru7ado          ('43t9 2 
1988         US$1           =           (ruzado          ('420-0t
1989         US$1           =           Nes (Cru7ado     N('z$2.K
AkbrevAatxoun and Acoinyrtn
CA                comit# assessor
advisory commiltee
CACEX             Carteira de Controlc de Eoxnrtaczes
Export C)ntrol Agency
CAPES             CoordcnAcdo dcAycreicoamcnro de P        tssoal dc Nivcl
SurVeriot
Coordination for Advanced T'raining of Iligher Education
Personnel
CNPq              Conselho Nacionial do Dcsesvolvimento (<cntaico e
Tccnol&cio
National Council for Scicatific and lechnological
Developmcnt
Cr                cm,itW tiansiilriq
transitory committec
FAPFSP            FundacdiŽAd Apio < Fesunisa no Estado d      I Paulo
State of Sio Paulo Science Support Foundation
FESA              Foreign Exchange Expenditures Special Account
FNDCI'            Fundo Nacional para o Desenv,,lvimiento Cient(ficoe
Tecnoldkico
National Funid for .Scicnce and 'Technology Decvelopment
FINEP             Financiadora de E       _sluds cj'rct-os
Agency for Financing of Studies andi'rojcis
GEA               Grur  Lspecial de AconWan-hatnew-
High-Level Advisory Group
GT                erupo tecnico
technical group
GTM               Sub-prorrama Geoloria e  e' loria Mineral
Geonciences and Mineral Technol)gy Subprogram
ICTF              Sub-pro=rama de Informaido para Cignuia e Tccnoig a
Science Informatiin Subprogram
INMETRO           InstitUto Nacional-de Metrolozia
National Standards Ilistitute
INPA              Instituto Nacional dc Pesquisas Anazorticas
National Research Institute for the Amazon
ISIS              Infrormatiort Science Information Scrvice
MCT               Ministlrio de i cia c TeCnrIofa
Ministry of Science aitd 1echnology
MIS               management information system
ORTN              Obriaacven Rexiust4veis do Tcsouro Nacional
inflation correcitin index
PADCT             Programa de Aproio no -Desenvolvinmento Cientiaco c
Teenolctrior
Science and Technology Project
PBDCT             Plano Lalsico para t Desenvolvimento dc Cigricta e
Tecnolo1ia
Basic Plan for Scientific and Technological Development
PEGO              ProicLo Estrecial dc GestiQa aIdade
Specializatioin Proy ii tin Quality Administration
Pt t'l'Lub-progiama_csyt,.2 d iciaTeTcnl
Scicnce Planning and Management Subprogram
QEQ               _bŽprogra Qatmicac Enjenheria Outmica
Chemistry and Chenmical Engineering Subprogram
R&D               rescar.h and development
S&T               science and technology
SBIC              Sub-prourama Biotccnologia
Biotechnology Subprogram
SINST             Sub- prorama Instrumentan
Instrumentation Subprogram
Cl'EC             Sub programa Uid ucac rpa raa i&gA
Science Education Subprogram
SPIN              Sub-rprorama Irsumos
Consumables Subprogram
SPM               Sub-pronrama Manulenc4o
Maintenance and Repair Services Subprogram
STn               Secretaria de Tecnologia Industrial
Secretarial for Industrial Technology
TCU               Tribnl de Contas da Unido
National Compirollers Office
T[B               Sub-programa Tectroloia Industrial Bdsica
Basic Industrial Technology Subprogram



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Offlce of Dirstor-Generml
Operaions Evaluation
June 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DrRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Science and Technology Project (Loan 2489-BR'
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Brazil-Science and
Technology-Project (Loan 2489-BR) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. It gives an adequate account of project performance. Part II, prepared
by the Borrower, confirms Parts I and HI.
This project was an innovative effort which sought to strengthen Brazil's
research capacity in selected areas important for economic development and to improve
the management of the national research effort. The outcome of this project is rated as
satisfactory. Covenant compliance was generally good, with the exception of belated
counterfund transfers (a problem shared with many other projects in Brazil) and an incom-
plete and late establishment of an information system. Institutional development has been
substantial, and the sustainability of the project's achievements appears likely. A follow-on
project is under way.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document hs a restricted dstrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
dutles. rt contnbt may not otherwis be disclosed wtthout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ..................................    i
A. Objectives . ...........................................  i
B.  Implementation ........................................  ii
C.  Results .         ............................................   i
D.  Sustainability  ............                  .............................  iii
E.  Lessons Learned  .......................................  iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... 1.. 
A.  Project Identity .......................................                                          1
B.  Background  ............                     .............................                        1
C.  Project Objectives and Description ...........................                                    2
D.  Project Design and Organization  ............................                                     3
E.  Project Implementation  ..................................                                        4
F.   Project Results  .......................................                                         6
G.  Project Sustainability  ...................................                                       7
H. Bank Performance during the Project Cycle.                                                         8
I.   Borrower Performance  .           .................................                              9
J.   Lessons Learned ....................................                                             9
K.  Project Relationships  . ..................................    11
L.  Consulting Services ....................................    11
M.  Project Documentation and Data  ...........                      .................   11
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  13
A.  Project Identity ......................................                                         13
B.  Introduction ......................................                                             13
C. The Bank's Performance ..................................  14
D.  The Borrower's Performance   .              .............................    15
E.  Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower .....                       .............   17
F.   Comments on Part I ....................................    17
G.  Comments on Part III ...................................   19
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ......................   21
Table 1:    Related Bank loans or credits  .........................   22
Table 2:    Project timetable  .................................   24
Table 3a:   Selected PADCT-I outcomes by subprogram   ................   25
Table 3b:   Selected expenditures on science and technology (S&T) ....                      .....   31
Table 3c:   PADCT-I share of scientific equipment imported by CNPq   ...                     ....   33
Table 3d:   Proposals submitted and contracts signed by subprogram
and call for proposals  ..............................   34
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of  r
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tabble 3e:   Participation of Brazilian scientists in decision making
and research and development (R&D)  .......  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   35
Table 3f:    Selected research and studies financed under PADCT-I ..... .                    .  .  .     .   36
Table 4:      Bank missions  .............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..                     .   37
Table 5:      Use of Bank resources   ..........  .                ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .    .   39
Table 6:      Schedule of disbursements  .........  .                .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   40
Table 7:      Allocation of loan proceeds  .........  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   41
Table 8:      Status of covenants ............  .                ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .    .   42
MAP           IBP.P  20S04P 1



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(LOAN 2489-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Science and
Technology Project in Brazil (locally known as Programa de Apoio ao
Desenvolvimento Cienttfico e Tecnol6gico I, or PADCT-I), for which Loan 2489-
BR in the amount of $72 million was approved on January 29, 1985, and became
effective on July 9, 1985. The loan was closed on December 31, 1991, after
receiving an extension on December 31, 1990. The last disbursement was made in
March 1992, and total disbursements amounted to $72 million, or 100 percent of
the loan amount.
The PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Operations Division
of the Country Department 1, Latin America and the Caribbean Region (with
input from the Borrower). Preparation of this PCR was initiated during a Bank
mission in March 1993, and is based primarily on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement, Bank supervision and progress reports, internal Bank
memoranda, a five-volume report entitled Evaluative Data on PADCT-I (April
1993), and independent evaluation reports by local consultants.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(LOAN 2489-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Objectives
1.        The project had two principal objectives: (a) to deliver a set of
performances or outcomes, and (b) to sponsor a set of process activities. The
performance objective was to foster the development of human resources and to
strengthen research capacity in specific scientific and technological areas deemed
important to economic growth in Brazil and also in urgent need of improvement.
The process objective was to foster changes in the management of public funds for
research and development (R&D) and advanced training by introducing
mechanisms for setting and enforcing research priorities, and for conducting
competitive reviews and selection of proposals submitted in response to specially
prepared calls for proposals.
2.        The strategy for achieving the overall performance objective involved
10 program areas deemed as critical to strengthening research and training
capabilities in economically relevant but less developed specialties, and to
providing appropriate funds for each area. This can be thought of as a "magic
bullet' strategy in which infusions of funds into targeted areas of basic and
industrially relevant research could be expected to have significant downstream
economic payoffs. In problem areas, such as mineral technology and
biotechnology, the importance of interdisciplinary collaboration and connections
with industrial research was stressed.
3.        Strategies for meeting the process objective of improved management
of public R&D expenditures included (a) introducing a process of competitive peer
review for reviewing and selecting projects; (b) creating a structure of policy-
setting committees (GTs) and project appraisal and selection committees (CAs),
both with broad participation from the scientific communities; and (c) introducing
a system of calls for proposals (editais) to inform potential proposers of
opportunities for support. Further, the need to coordinate the program among



iv
four major government agencies, which retained final responsibility for awarding
contracts, led to the creation of a Science and Technology Project (PADCI)
Secretariat with coordinators for each subprogram to facilitate the flow of work
through the agencies. Also critical was the creation of a high-level advisory board
(GEA) with distinguished Brazilian and international participation, to provide
perspective and course corrections throughout the project. Finally, an important
feature of the program was the exclusion of support for construction projects,
except in a few special cases where major new equipment was installed.
B. Implementation
4.         During the life of the project (July 1985 - December 1991), Brazil
underwent extraordinary governmental and financial instability. There was high
turnover of top science policy officials. Extreme stringencies on public finances
almost brought the release and flow of committed funds to a halt in several
instances. The rate of inflation remained higher than 25 percent per month
through most of the project. In addition, the project itself was inherently complex:
it coordinated expenditures among four major government agencies that supported
science and education in more than 2,500 competitively selected projects in about
250 performing institutions; it also coordinated over 20 scientific committees
formulating plans and policies in the program areas, and reviewed well over 6,000
individual project proposals.
5.         The scientific community and major government agencies showed
consistent improvement in their procedures and processes of arranging for peer
reviews, writing calls for proposals, and selecting projects. The great majority of
the funds were allocated to competitively selected projects.
6.         The greatest difficulties and delays derived largely, but not exclusively,
from the turbulent political and governmental context in Brazil. Long delays in
disbursement of funds for awarded grants caused great dislocation in academic
plans during the early years of the loan. Similarly, the enactment of general
importation regulations caused lengthy delays for many projects needing research
equipment. Significant amounts of awarded project funds were wasted because
there was no means for protecting project funds from inflationary erosion.
Further, halfway through the loan period, the Ministry of Science and Technology
(MCI) announced an Emergency Program to revitalize the equipment
infrastructure in Brazilian science and technology (S&T) laboratories. Fourteen
million dollars, or about 8 percent of total PADCT-I funds were used for
"emergency' projects selected without peer review and without reference to
PADCT-I priorities. A strong, negative Bank reaction helped bring an end to this
detour from project objectives. Finally, the area of least progress in meeting goals
had to do with a spotty record of follow-up and evaluation of the projects
supported.



v
C. Results
7.         By themselves, the changes in performance and process brought about
by PADCT-I may well have given way to "business as usual" had there been no
project to continue the work of PADCI'-I (PADCT-II). Nevertheless, real
performance accomplishments can be attributed to project support. Many
laboratories were substantially improved with new instrumentation and supplies
that enabled them to raise their productivity significantly. Some new products and
instruments were created, although their market success remains to be
demonstrated. Many students in the selected fields received support for technical
training and continued studies at the pre- and postdoctoral levels, thus increasing
the national capabilities in these areas as planned. Many precollege science
teachers and laboratory technicians received training. Pressures from the
PADCT-I are also generally acknowledged to have resulted in the 1990 enactment
of a new law that greatly facilitated the importation of scientific equipment -too
late for PADCT-I, but of great significance for subsequent programs.
8.         The broad consensus of opinion on the project is that it provided the
opportunity and support for a change in the attitudes and perceptions of the
scientific community, and to a lesser degree, the government science officials,
regarding the optimal means for allocating resources for upstream research and
research training. There was a strong and palpable learning curve. The scientific
members of the GTs learned how to formulate policy for the area and to write
calls for proposals that were focused on the developmental objectives of the
program, yet were broad enough to encompass the kinds of basic approaches
desired. The CAs learned how to judge and select proposals within the policy and
priority guidelines set by the GTs, as well as how to wield the surgical knife among
proposals-resulting roughly in an overall one-third success rate. Both sets of
scientific advisory groups learned how to deal with conflict-of-interest problems
that are endemic to relatively small scientific communities. The PADCT
Secretariat learned how to mobilize the relevant communities into the system, and
how to coordinate with the several government agencies responsible for final
approval of projects and disbursement of funds. Finally, the government agencies
received strong messages that the scientific community wanted greater
transparency in agency decision-making processes.
D. Sustainability
9.         It seems clear that, with regard to mechanisms for setting program
priorities and conducting competitive project review and selection, the PADCT-I
has given a significant portion of Brazil's scientific community hands-on experience
in how to operate in an open competitive environment. Few would desire to
return to the previous system. Even after the eventual end of externally funded
special programs, permanent effects are expected on the openness and
transparency of procedures in scientific funding agencies.



vi
E. Lessons Learned
10.        Despite the complexity of the project design and the economic and
governmental chaotic context in which it was implemented, the project did actually
achieve concrete results. This was possible for the following reasons:
(a)  The project performance objectives were sound and shared by
the relevant Brazilian scientific communities.
(b)  Good communications with the scientific community was a key
factor in maintaining project support within the community,
through media such as Inforne and the disciplinary newsletters.
(c)   PADCF-I had a strong Secretariat with firm backing at the
ministerial level, capable of handling the delicate interfaces
between scientific groups and government agencies with
increasing skill and confidence.
(d)  Although dealing with inflation proved to be an intractable
problem during PADCT-I, Bank and local program staff
skillfully dealt with the nondisbursement of counterpart funds
and delays in the acquisition of import licenses for scientific
equipment.
(e)  Effective oversight and monitoring by an independent,
international panel of distinguished scientists (GEA) was
extremely important in conferring legitimacy to the program, in
identifying and generating pressures for the solution of
problems in program implementation, and in providing an
independent overall perspective on the development of the
project.
11.        When the time came to prepare the PCR, an important conclusion
was made: no complete and reliable data base of project performance data
existed. In order to have a good summary evaluation of a project, both local
program information (collected on-line) and corresponding national data are
needed. PADCT-I had the opportunity to develop both, but ended up with
neither. A management information system (MIS) should have been incorporated
in the initial project design, and clear assignation of authority for its
implementation should also have been defined in the early stages of project
execution. This is particularly critical in the absence of a national data base on
S&T investments in Brazil.
12.        Many of the lessons learned in the implementation of PADCT-I have
been incorporated into the plans and execution of PADCT-II, thus constituting
real progress in moving toward a modern science allocation system. However, two



vii
problem areas from PADCT-I remain yet to be resolved in PADCT-II, and only
now are being addressed. They are:
(a)  The interrelated problems of timely disbursement of
counterpart funds and of inflationary erosion of project funds
continue to diminish program effectiveness in PADCT-II. Any
future Bank loan should require strong assurances that funds
allocated to projects will reach investigators in a timely manner
and be fully protected from inflationary reductions in value.
(b)  The lack of rich and timely on-line data on the flow of program
resources and participants, as well as other broader S&T
indicators, in effect tblinds" program management to current
developments in the program, and significantly reduces
management effectiveness and the possibilities for effective
evaluation of the programs. Project management, with Bank
input, is attempting to address the problem caused by the
absence from the PADCT-II design of an adequate and
properly operating MIS.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(LOAN 2489-BR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name:       Science and Technology Project Oocally known as PADCT-I)
Loan No.:           2489-BR
RVP Unit:           LAIHR
Country:            Brazil
Sector:             Education
Subsector:          Science and Technology
B. Background
1.1        Sector Development Objectives. At the time of project appraisal,
several indicators suggested that there had been impressive growth, from the mid-
1960s to the early 1980s, in Brazil's capabilities for higher education and science and
technology (S&T), in terms of both research and development (R&D), and technology
production. Despite this progress, remaining weaknesses in the sector were beginning
to impede continuing growth. These hindrances could be ameliorated with assistance
carefully targeted at identified "bottlenecks" in research and scientific and
technological education and training. Such assistance included (a) strengthening the
capacity for research and the capabilities fur interdisciplinary team-building and fur
advanced training in specific scientific and technological areas deemed important for
economic growth; (b) improving the efficiency of mechanisms for government
research support; and (c) significantly increasing the participation of the scientific
community in setting national research policies and priorities, as well as in reviewing
and selecting projects fur support.
1.2        Policy Context. In recognition of the need to deal with the perceived
bottlenecks in the contribution of S&T to long-term economic development, the
Government resolved to (a) move toward rationalizing the effective division of labor
among the major federal research supporting agencies; (b) obtain greater productivity
in the use of scarce resources for S&T, including greater expert policy advice and
project selection involvement of the scientific community; (c) improve the financial



-2 -
base for scientific and technological development; and (d) achieve a more balanced
distribution of Brazil's scientific and technological resources-in terms of both
disciplinary and geographic criteria.
1.3        Linkages between Project, Sector, and Macro Policy Objectives.
Although PADCr-I operated in a highly unstable economic as well as political
environment, there is solid evidence of significant progress toward achieving project
and sector goals-with further consolidation of these gains being made in the
continuation project (PADCT-II, Loan No. 3269-BR, effective May 15, 1991). The
program strongly supported the Government's S&T sector development policy. (See
Table 1, Part III, for related sector Bank loans.) Several examples of specific
PADCT-supported R&D successes in the marketplace also lend credibility to the
program's claim that investment in these areas wvuld eventually lead to longer-term
economic growth.
C. Project Objectives and Description
1.4        Project Objectives. This project had tw  objectives. The performance
or outcome-oriented objective was to foster the development of human resources and
to strengthen research capacity in certain areas deemed important to longer-term
economic growth and also in urgent need of improvement. The process-oriented
objective was to improve the management of scarce public funds for R&D and
advanced training by introducing mechanisms for setting and carrying through with
research priorities, and to elicit wide participation by the scientific communities in
conducting competitive review and selection of research proposals submitted in
response to specially prepared calls for proposals. The strategies adopted to meet the
performance objectives included selection of 10 program areas believed to be critical
to strengthening research and training capabilities relevant to economic growth, and
the provision of appropriate funds for each of the areas. The program stressed the
importance of interdisciplinary collaboration in problem areas, such as biotechnology
and mineral technology.
1.5        The objective of improving the management of science funding included
introducing a set of structures-project appraisal and selection committees (CAs), and
technical policy-setting committees (G'T)-and procedures to increase the participation
of the scientific communities in conducting a competitive peer review process for
project review and selection; and implementing a system of calls for proposals
(editais) to inform potential proposers of opportunities for obtaining support. Further,
recognition of the problem of coordinating the program among four major government
agencies, each of which retained the final responsibility for allocating the funds, led to
the creation of a PADCT Secretariat with coordinators for each of the 10 subprograms
to facilitate the flow of work through the agencies. Tracking the flow of activities
also required an MIS in common use among the agencies. This was never fully
achieved during the project. Also important was the creation of a high-level advisory
board (GEA), with a distinguished Brazilian and international membership, to provide
perspective and course corrections throughout the project. Finally, the foresight that
excluded expenditures for construction projects, except in a few special cases



-3 -
associated with the installation of major new equipment, avoided potentially serious
problems with allocation.
1.6        Project Components. The project consisted of two major elements: (a)
financial support for competitively selected projects in 10 areas deemed critical to
improving Brazil's S&T capability, and (b) creation of a set of management structures
and processes to set policies in the various areas and to efficiently, fairly, and openly
review and select projects and allocate funds for them. Four of the 10 program areas
focused on basic research and graduate training in biotechnology, chemistry and
chemical engineering, geosciences, and mineral technology, and on improvement of
research laboratory instrumentation. About two thirds of the total project funds were
expended in these areas. Another sixth of the total was expended in a subprogram for
improvement of basic industrial technology. The remaining fifth of the funds was
divided among five science support and infrastructure programs, including: (a) a
large program focusing on the improvement of precollege science education through
support of preservice and in-service training of science teachers, development of
instructional materials and curricula, and support for master's and doctoral level study
in science education in Brazil and abroad; (b) two small programs to improve
Brazilian S&T information systems and services and to strengthen Brazilian capacities
for S&T planning and management; and (c) two somewhat larger programs for
fostering capabilities for maintaining and repairing laboratory equipment and for
improving Brazilian production, storage, and distribution of consumables destined for
teaching and research.
D. Project Design and Organization
1.7        The planning for this project began more than two years before its
initiation. From the beginning, the project was recognized as "innovative and
complex" (see Project Briefs, December 17, 1982, October 27, 1983, and November
16, 1983). In late 1984, at the official request of the Brazilian Government, the
original budget for the project was scaled back by about 40 percent. Also, its planned
duration was shortened, with the understanding that a favorable review toward the end
of the work could result in a continuation loan (see Table 2, Part III). The twin
conceptual foundations for the project were clear. The first was to introduce
competitive project review and selection into the Brazilian research support system as
a means of improving the productivity of Brazilian science and to mobilize the
scientific communities into setting priorities for science. The second was to inject
additional resources into areas of Brazilian S&T deemed essential for longer-term
economic development and also urgently in need of improvement. The areas were
seen as likely bottlenecks in Brazil's future science development. These were both
innovative concepts in the Brazilian context. Although the State of Sao Paulo Science
Foundation (FAPESP) has used a model for reviewing and selecting competitive
projects and has provided substantial funds for several decades, its methods had not
been adopted by the principal federal agencies. The timing of the project was
appropriate in the original longer-term perspective of development, and the timing
also unexpectedly helped maintain science funding during a difficult period.



-4 -
1.8        Although the roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
responsible for the project were clearly defined and understood in principle, the
varying traditions, competencies, and concerns of the agencies resulted in considerable
confusion. However, a slow but clear learning curve became apparent as the agency
staffs interacted with the PADCT Secretariat, and as they became accustomed to the
active roles of the scientific advisory and policy committees. In retrospect, the
scientific community's adopting a newly active and transparent role in science funding
matters may come to be seen as the most important contribution of PADCT-I. The
inability of project planners to design a foolproof, or at least workable, inflation
protection mechanism for granted project funds must be seen, however, as a serious
failure that significantly reduced the effectiveness of the activities.
E. Project Implementation
1.9        Variances between Planned and Actual Implementation. There were
five significant problem areas in which implementation did not proceed as originally
envisaged: (a) timely disbursements of adequate counterpart funds, (b) protection of
disbursed counterpart funds from inflation, (c) expediency in acquiring import licenses
fbr scientific equipment, (d) the Emergency Program drain on PADCT funds, and (e)
creation of an MIS. The disbursement of counterpart funds experienced systematic
delays when funds were transferred from the National Treasury to the Agency for
Financing of Studies and Projects (FINEP)-the fiscal agent for PADCT, which
seriously disrupted the planned schedule (see Bank mission aide-memoires August
1986 and July 1989). There were also delays in the transfer of funds from FINEP to
the other PADCT intermediary agencies-National Council for Scientific and
Technological Development (CNPq), Coordination for Advanced Training of Higher
Education Personnel (CAPES), and Secretariat for Industrial Technology
(STI)-causing these agencies to delay payments of awards and to postpone calls for
proposals and other activities. Scheduled dependent research projects were seriously
disrupted, and scholarship and traineeship recipients found themselves without
support. Further, the delays in transferring funds to awardees resulted in large losses
in real value due to inflation. Unless funds were spent immediately after they were
received, their value would decrease by about 25 percent each month. A frequently
told tale concerns a researcher who was awarded a grant of $10,000 for a small truck.
The purchasing power of the sum he actually received after waiting more than a year
was less than $100.
1.10       The delays in importing scientific equipment stemmed both from the
complexity and rigidity of the Brazilian Export Control Agency's (CACEX's) general
import regulations, as well as from the initial inability of CNPq, designated as the
sole equipment purchasing agent for PADCT, to handle the volume of work. In
response to Bank memoranda, as well as many complaints from grantees, five
universities were permitted to apply directly to CACEX to have import licenses issued
for their researchers, which significantly improved the rate of activity (see Bank
mission aide-memoire, November 1989). In 1986 the Ministry of Science and
Technology announced an Emergency Program to revitalize the equipment
infrastructure of Brazilian research laboratories. The Bank was requested to permit
use of some PADCT funds for purposes consistent with the loan objectives. The



Bank initially consented, provided that expenditures followed the PADCT General
Agreement. However, Bank midterm review documents in January 1987 raised
serious questions about whether PADCT procedures, especially those for competitive
project review and selection, were being followed in the Emergency Program
expenditures. The Bank's position was to prohibit further allocations from PADCI'
funds for projects that had not been selected according to PADCT procedures. In
total, about $14 million of PADCT funds were expended for projects in the
Emergency Program, which were selected without peer review and without reference
to PADCT-I priorities. The Emergency Program expenditures necessitated budget
cuts in the subprograms that ranged from 5-10 percent in most programs to a
devastating 50 percent in small subprograms like Science Information (ICT) and
Science Planning and Management (PGCT). A strong, negative Bank reaction helped
bring an end to this detour from project objectives.
1.11       Finally, compliance with Article 3, Section 304, of the Loan Agreement,
which specifies reporting requirements for the performing entities, clearly required
creation of an MIS that would standardize data entries among the agencies and make
possible full tracking of the flow and characteristics of the pieces of supported work
(see Bank aide-memoire, February/March 1985). A host of problems beset this
effort, resulting in such a poor set of data about PADCT-I at the end of the project
that a separate, retroactive data collection effort had to be mounted to generate
minimal information about the progress of the project (see Evaluative Data on
PADCT-I, April 1983). The problems included (a) unclear primary lines of
responsibility for carrying out an MIS; (b) difficulty of standardizing information
among the agencies; (c) incompatible hardware among the agencies; and (d)
inadequate training of agency staff in the new software. Bank staff believed that
progress was being made in this area. Hence, the Bank Supervision Report of July
1989 stated that by that time, the MIS was "functioning well." However, this was
not at all the case when the time came in late 1992 to extract data for the purposes of
this PCR.
1.12       Project Risks-Foreseen and Unforeseen. In the planning stages, most
commentators in the records acknowledged the complexity of the project. Some
foresaw that the problems of coordination among several government agencies would
be insurmountable. In reality, as predicted, severe difficulties of coordination caused
severe delays in project work. With each successive call for proposals, however,
significant learning and adaptation took place, and these lessons were well applied in
the subsequent PADCT-II. The three big problems of tardy disbursement of local
funds, lengthy delays in acquiring equipment import licenses, and inflationary erosion
of funds-both at the agency and the project levels-were not foreseen in the planning
stages. The first was probably not predictable. On the question of importation, Bank
staff relied unduly upon the CNPq-CACEX agreement, as specified in the Loan
Agreement, as evidence for a likely smooth flow of special permissions for
importation of scientific equipment. However, this area suffered from the same
pattern of problems of bureaucratic coordination and implementation as mentioned
above. Eventually, with repeated Bank staff urging, and, of course, in response to
strong protests from the affected researchers, solutions were arrived at. Finally,
treatment of the impact of inflation in Bank documents is repetitive, almost plaintive,



and reminiscent of an incantation. The issue was originally brought to the Bank's
attention in a consultant working paper as early as the planning stage in 1984. A
recommendation was included in the SAR of January 8, 1985, that funding for each
subproject be expressed in constant value terms, such as ORTNs or U.S. dollars. The
same theme was repeated in the first supervision mission aide-memoire of August
1985, in the report of the midterm review mission of January 29, 1987, and again in
the report of the supervision mission in March of 1988. Despite these repeated
exhortations, no measures to ameliorate the situation were undertaken by the
Borrower, and the Bank apparently did not insist. The Bank was confronted with a
Hobson's choice-withhold funding and seriously harm Brazilian S&T, or allow
things to proceed and harm Brazilian S&T somewhat less. Nevertheless, it would
seem that with the Bank's extensive experience with funding projects in high-inflation
environments, some creative solutions to the problem could have emerged. Of
course, this opportunity still exists because the problem has not yet been solved.
Actions should be taken, if necessary, in the midterm review of the follow-up project
(PADCr-II) to prevent the Bank from once again being caught in this dilemma. A
mitigating factor in the behavior of both parties was the continuing hope that inflation
would disappear as a consequence of governmental action. It is no exaggeration to
say that a new government plan to reduce inflation was advanced almost every year
during the mid-1980s-the Funaro plan, the Cruzado plan, the Bressler plan, and the
Collor plan in 1990. Despite the official optimism accompanying each of these plans,
the fires of inflation continued to rage unabated-as they do today.
F. Project Results
1.13       Performance Objectives. The outcomes of the project can be discussed
in terms of the two types of objectives-perfbrmance objectives and process
objectives. The performance objectives are specified in the goals of the subprograms,
and for each program, real accomplishments can be listed (see Table 3a) despite the
delays in disbursements and acquisition of import licenses, as well as the depredations
of inflation and the budgetary inroads of the Emergency Plan. Table 3b gives a sense
of the relative size (and therefore potential impact) of PADCT expenditures as
compared with other measures of Brazilian R&D expenditures. Although PADCT
expenditures were only about 0.5 percent of estimated annual total Brazilian R&D
expenditures, they constituted an annual average of about 7.5 percent of estimated
federal expenditures on basic research from 1984 through 1991. Equipment renewal
was a principal focus of PADCT-I; Table 3c shows a major impact as compared with
equipment expenditures of the CNPq-the principal federal source for research
equipment. Many laboratories were permanently improved with new equipment and
supplies that enabled them to raise their productivity. The opinion was expressed that
PADCT made possible the beginning and takeoff of biotechnology in Brazil. In the
industrially related programs, a variety of new products and instruments were created,
which are actually in use, ranging from six new locally built scientific instruments, a
Leishmania vaccine, and artificial skin from cellulose, to diagnostic kits for Chagas'
disease. The capabilities of the national industrial standards laboratory were also
significantly upgraded. Of course, the longer-run market success of these items
remains to be demonstrated. Many students in the selected fields received support for
continued studies at pre- and postdoctoral levels, which increased the national



- 7 -
capabilities in these areas as planned. Many precollege science teachers and
laboratory technicians received training.
1.14       Administrative Process Objectives. Generally pertaining to the
management of the programs, these administrative process objectives can usefully be
divided into bureaucratic, administrative, and legal issues, as well as into questions
relating to the participation of the scientific community in policy-setting and project
selection. Coordination of the PADCT among the four major federal research and
advanced education supporting agencies was the biggest administrative question mark
in the project planning phase. Other problems appeared immediately that concerned
cruzeiro nondisbursements, acquisition of import licenses, enforcement of PADCT
merit procedures, a tendency to increase the number of grants and reduce their
average size (which "watered down" the impact of the program), and creation of a
common MIS. The authority of the PADCT Secretariat to negotiate and deal with the
agencies was enhanced when it was moved directly into the MCT; this was further
strengthened when the Subprogram Technical Secretariats were likewise centralized.
One broader accomplishment can be attributed to PADCT-the 1990 enactment of
legislation that greatly facilitated the importation of scientific equipment-too late for
PADCT-I, but of great importance to the scientific community.
1.15       Participation of the Scientific Community. There is a broad consensus
of opinion within the scientific community, as well as in science administration
circles, that the PADCT-I had provided the opportunity and support for a change in
the attitudes and perceptions of the scientific community, and to a lesser degree
among government science agency officials, regarding the optimal means for
allocating resources for upstream research and research training. An estimated 800
scientists and engineers participated in these groups, as well as another 1,500 as ad
hoc proposal reviewers who dealt with around 6,700 proposals that resulted in over
2,100 contracts. About 10 percent of the research communities in the PADCT-I areas
are conservatively estimated to have actually participated in this decision making (see
Tables 3d and 3e). In the operation of these committees there was a strong and
palpable learning curve. The scientific members of the GMs learned how to formulate
policy for the area and how to write calls for proposals that were focused upon the
developmental objective of the program, yet were broad enough to encompass the
kind of basic approaches desired. Members of the CAs learned how to judge and
select proposals within the policy and priority guidelines set by the GTs, as well as
how to wield the surgical knife among proposals-resulting roughly in an overall one-
third success rate (see Table 3d). The PADCT Secretariat learned how to mobilize
the relevant communities into the system, and how to coordinate with the several
government agencies involved. Finally, the government agencies received strong
messages that the scientific community wanted greater transparency in agency
decision-making processes.
G. Project Sustainability
1.16       Ultimately, the sustainability of the performance gains made under
PADCT-I will depend on the will of the Brazilian Government to maintain a desirable
level of R&D expenditures as a percentage of gross national product (GNP)-the



- 8 -
curve was on the downturn at the time of writing. However, the process gains were
widely adjudged to be more or less irreversible. A significant portion of Brazil's
scientific community has gained hands-on experience in formulating science policy in
their fields and in operating a project review and selection process in an open and
competitive environment. The continuing and strong emphasis of the Bank missions,
as well as the prestigious GEA, on the importance of the process clearly helped to
institutionalize it. There is also good reason to believe that the messages sent by the
scientific communities to the science agencies concerning the need to keep
transparency in their decision processes were clearly heard, and will continue to spur
changes in agency behavior in funding programs unrelated to PADCT. It is worth
noting that many of the lessons learned have already been sustained through inclusion
in the PADCr-II project.
H. Bank Performance during the Project Cycle
1.17       Major Strengths and Weaknesses. Bank staff were astute and
innovative in originally recognizing the importance and potential of the Brazilian
concept for an S&T development program. The Bank also proceeded rapidly with
exploratory missions, which included consultants who were scientists, since the Bank
had little experience in the area of science policy. The Bank correctly advanced the
twin concepts of targeted performance areas to boost Brazilian capabilities in
economically sensitive areas, linked to a tightly-conceived plan for managing the
program on the basis of wide participation by the relevant scientific communities in an
open, competitive process for reviewing and selecting proposals. Critics within the
Bank also correctly identified some likely problem areas, which led to refinement of
the Loan Agreement. Bank staff were indefatigable in pursuing field information in
the planning stage with 10 planning (preloan) missions involving 26 weeks of staff and
consultant time. Further, 14 supervision missions were carried out that involved 28
weeks of staff time (see Tables 4 and 5). These missions, averaging six weeks per
year over nine years, pressed for solving the extensive early problems of
nondisbursement of counterpart funds, difficulties with obtaining licenses to import
scientific equipment, the encroachments upon the PADCT budget from the Emergency
Program, the problems of implementing a functional MIS, and problems of
coordination among the agencies.
1.18       Two major weaknesses on the part of the Bank concerned inflationary
erosion of counterpart funds and the lack of an MIS for the project. Regarding the
former, although the Bank has considerable experience in dealing with projects in
highly inflationary financial environments, it has found no answers to the inflationary
erosion of counterpart project funds. This is a serious problem common to all
projects in Brazil. Future projects may need to include specific mechanisms fur
protecting counterpart funds from inflation. As an alternative, the Bank should be
willing to make timely use of legal remedies to force a solution to the problem. The
second Bank weakness, however, could have been addressed effectively soon after it
became apparent during supervision missions that no complete and reliable data base
of project performance information existed. The terms of reference for an MIS
should have been incorporated into the initial project design, and clear assignation of
authority fur its implementation should have been defined in the early stages of project



- 9 -
execution. Failing that, the Bank should have then drawn up an action plan for
PADCT-I to resolve the problem when this design flaw became apparent during
supervision, especially since PADCT-I had the opportunity to develop both local
program information and corresponding national data, but followed through with
neither.
I. Borrower Performance
1.19       Major Strengths and Weaknesses. The PADCT was a complex project
aiming to achieve significant changes in the behavior of government administrators
and the scientific community. That such changes were indeed accomplished in an
extremely volatile government and economic context says much for the design and
implementation of the project. Despite initial skepticism, normal bureaucratic
inertia-especially applicable in a multi-agency effort such as that of PADCT-and
lack of equipment and training, it is fair to say that the agencies came to see PADCT
as a net asset to Brazilian science and therefore worthy of efforts to help it succeed.
The persistent and sensitive actions of the PADCT Secretariat greatly facilitated this
attitude, which helped create a generally cooperative atmosphere. There is virtually
no record here of systematic stonewalling or bureaucratic sabotage. In the turbulent
environment of the project's early years, however, there were often no obvious or
easy answers to the problems. Nevertheless, the generally cooperative attitude
resulted in a steep learning curve, especially in the issues involving the participation
of the scientific community in decision making. As stated in para. 1.15, this is the
area of greatest success of PADCT-I.
1.20       Two significant areas of relative failure at the interagency level were the
lack of success in building an appropriate and user-friendly (both from an input as
well as an output point of view) MIS, and the development of a set of common
postperformance project evaluation procedures. Despite considerable Bank staff
attention, both areas received lower-than-desirable priority from the Brazilians. The
importance of sound project information collection procedures in both areas appears
not to have been fully understood by the Brazilians until it became necessary to
describe how the project functioned in a final report.
J. Lessons Learned
1.21       Despite the complexity of the project design, which required changes in
bureaucratic environments, and the economic and governmental chaotic context in
which it was implemented, the project actually achieved concrete results. This was
possible for the following reasons:
(a)   The project performance objectives were sound and shared by the
relevant Brazilian scientific communities.
(b)   Good communications with the scientific community was a key
factor in maintaining project support within the community,
through media such as Informe and the disciplinary newsletters.



- 10 -
(c)   PADCT-I had a strong Secretariat with firm backing at the
ministerial level, capable of handling the delicate interfaces
between scientific groups and government agencies with increasing
skill and confidence.
(d)   Although dealing with inflation proved to be an intractable
problem during PADCT-I, Bank and local program staff skillfully
dealt with the nondisbursement of counterpart funds and delays in
the acquisition of import licenses for scientific equipment.
(e)   Effective oversight and monitoring by an independent,
international panel of distinguished scientists (GEA) was extremely
important in conferring legitimacy to the program, in identifying
and generating pressures for the solution of problems in program
implementation, and in providing an independent overall
perspective on the development of the project.
1.22       When the time came to prepare the PCR, an important conclusion was
made: no complete and reliable data base of project performance data existed. In
order to have a good summary evaluation of a project, both local program information
(collected on-line) and corresponding national data are needed. PADCT-I had the
opportunity to develop both, but ended up with neither. An MIS should have been
incorporated in the initial project design, and clear assignation of authority fur its
implementation should also have been defined in the early stages of project execution.
This is particularly critical in the absence of a national data base on S&T investments
in Brazil.
1.23        Many of the lessons learned in the implementation of PADCT-I have
been incorporated into the plans and execution of PADCT-II, thus constituting real
progress in moving toward a modern science allocation system. However, two
problem areas from PADCT-I remain yet to be resolved in PADCT-II, and only now
are being addressed. They are:
(a)   The interrelated problems of timely disbursement of counterpart
funds and of inflationary erosion of project funds continue to
diminish program effectiveness in PADCT-II. Any future Bank
loan should require strong assurances that funds allocated to
projects will reach investigators in a timely manner and be fully
protected from inflationary reductions in value.
(b)   The lack of rich and timely on-line data on the flow of program
resources and participants, as well as other broader S&T
indicators, in effect "blinds" program management to current
developments in the program, and significantly reduces
management effectiveness and the possibilities fur effective
evaluation of the programs. Project management, with Bank
input, is attempting to address the problem caused by the absence



- 11 -
from the PADCT-II design of an adequate and properly operating
MIS.
K. Project Relationships
1.24        On the whole, Bank-Borrower relationships were rich, candid, and
sensitive. Several periods of considerable strain were deftly handled which minimized
damage to the project. This was remarkable, given the high turnover rate of officials
in both institutions. An important achievement of PADCT-I was to pioneer new
relationships between the science-supporting government agencies and the scientific
community, which are likely to continue beyond the life of the PADCT loans.
L. Consulting Services
1.25        Given the paucity of Bank expertise in the area of S&T policy (a matter
the Bank should rectify), consultants played a key role in the design, implementation,
and assessment of the project. In the design stage, consultants with expertise in the
structure and functioning of open, competitive project review and selection systems
were centrally involved. They were also prominent in the implementation of
supervision phases, as well as in the final PCR stage. Bank staff were judicious in
their selection of consultants, and paid attention to the analysis and advice received.
In addition, the importance of the oversight and insight provided by the GEA cannot
be overemphasized. The GEA, composed of prestigious members of the local and
international scientific communities, guaranteed that its voice would be heard.
M. Project Documentation and Data
1.26       Quality of Information.  The Bank PADCr-I files constitute an
impressive set of qualitative records that include, among other things, the reports of
24 missions concerning the project. The quantitative record, other than the
disbursement of Bank funds (see Tables 6 and 7), is less impressive. Final accounts
of disbursement of local funds contain puzzling anomalies (see para. 1.29). There is
not even an estimate of the actual value of expenditures made by individual projects.
No good quantitative information exists on the characteristics of the investigators
supported, on their gender and age, their institutional affiliations, or even their
disciplines. The actual number of supported projects also remains unclear. All of
this is not to say that reasonable and partial estimates cannot be made. However,
these are not substitutes in the longer run for a functioning system of S&T
management information and policy indicators.
1.27       Irregularities in the Financial Information. No matter which way one
looks at the various displays available concerning the disbursement of local
counterpartfunds, they do not appear to add up (see, for example, Figure C4. 1, p.
29, PADCT-I Evaluatiw Data, Executive Summary, April 1993). The discrepancies
between funds received and funds disbursed vary from $16 to 35 million. These
serious discrepancies were extensively discussed with various government and
academic officials in Brazil, but no satisfactory answers were arrived at. There are a
number of possible explanations, but the discrepancies should be investigated by



- 12 -
persons skilled in financial or accounting analysis, and this report so recommends (see
also para. 2.33).



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(LOAN 2489-BR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name:        Science and Technology Project (locally known as PADCT-I)
Loan No.:            2489-BR
RVP Unit:           LAIHR
Country:            Brazil
Sector:              Education
Subsector:           Science and Technology
B. Introduction
2.1        Unlike the euphoria of the 1970s when high GNP growth rates did not
give space to social concern, during the 1980s the scientific community and the
Government could not ignore the necessity for dealing with the pauperization of large
sectors of Brazilian society. Accordingly, S&T policies became oriented to problem
solving aimed at economic recovery. This situation led to a revision of the criteria
used for conceiving and evaluating R&D programs and projects. S&T policymakers
interacted with the scientific and entrepreneurial programs and communities to develop
plans fbr modernizing traditional industries and to promote innovation in high-
technology sectors. In this context, the Brazilian Government approached the Bank
and requested support for increasing the country's capacity in S&T management and
fbr developing research competence in strategic scientific and technological areas.
2.2         The purpose of this report is to review limited aspects of PADCT-I
implementation, in order to explain how the S&T system, including the scientific
community, operated under rules that were not traditionally utilized by the S&T
agencies; how interagency coordination was handled; how the program was managed
financially; how the program was followed by the Bank and by the Brazilian
Government, as far as observing that the rules and objectives of the program
previously defined were implemented. An evaluation of the content of the outputs of
PADCT-I, especially with respect to its economic consequences, is needed and is



- 14 -
being organized by the Executive Secretariat of PADCT-II, but it goes beyond the
scope of this report.
2.3        An important achievement of PADCT-I was the translation of implicit
S&T policies into an effective, explicit, and transparent policy for developing selected
scientific and technological areas in Brazil. The program's outstanding results derived
from (a) the involvement of Brazilian S&T communities in sectoral planning, (b) the
use of a competitive peer review system for awarding grants, and (c) improvements in
coordination among the government funding agencies acting on programn
implementation. PADCT-I assisted in the allocation of additional funds to selected
research and research support areas, which significantly influenced the scientific and
technological output of these areas, and assisted in improving their capacity to
compete for resources outside the program. In the future, the program's strategy
could be extended to other fields according to the priorities defined by Brazilian S&T
policy.
2.4        PADCT-I implementation was affected by the inflationary erosion of
counterpart funds primarily because rigid Brazilian regulations prohibited project
coordinators and intermediary agencies (with the exception of FINEP, which is a
publicly-owned enterprise) from investing disbursed funds in the financial market (this
problem is now being solved and research institutions will be allowed to invest grant
funds). Further, during PADCT-I several government plans for controlling the
inflationary process ended up in total failure. Some of the measures taken against
inflation included eliminating monetary indexes in public contracts, which rendered it
even more difficult to protect research funds disbursed in local currency.
2.5        Besides inflation, research projects sometimes suffered from shortages of
resources because of delays in transferring counterpart funds from intermediary
agencies to research institutions. This situation reflected operational difficulties in the
agencies related to the overall economic situation of the country, but it was also due
to inadequate rules set up by the program to prevent erosion of awarded project funds.
The reduction in government expenditures on S&T after 1989 simply followed the
general tendency of cutting all public expenditures. Because the National Fund for
Science and Technology Development (FNDCT) resources were included in the
budgetary cuts of that period, research projects in the late phases of PADCT-I became
the most important source of funds for S&T institutions (this tendency is being
reversed in PADCr-II).
C. The Bank's Performance
2.6        The negotiations between the Borrower and the Bank that led to the
PADCT-I loan were long and complex. The identification mission visited Brazil from
October to November 1982, and the loan was signed in February 1985. To a certain
extent, both sides were breaking new ground. The Bank was dealing with its first
sector loan in S&T and devoted special attention to the program's institutional design.
The coordination and advisory bodies of PADCT-I, as well as its peer review system,
were outlined during this exploratory phase. Additionally, at the request of the Bank,



- 15 -
the Borrower conducted, at its own expense and risk, a test phase for checking the
PADCr-I machinery.
2.7        Although the Bank was organized and well prepared to deal with
education or industrial technology projects, the difficulty of PADCT-I consisted in
transferring these experiences to an integrated project on S&T, sometimes
circumventing different divisional approaches. The Bank agreed to make exceptions
to deal with the operational characteristics of S&T research projects. This attitude is
clearly reflected in Annex 4 of the Loan Agreement, where a flexible understanding
of the necessity of international bids for acquiring scientific equipment replaces the
rigid Bank norms on the issue. This is an important lesson for the future. In fact,
PADCT-II is facing difficulties related to importation because the rules set up by the
Bank are not as flexible as they were during PADCT-I. Bank consultants and the
Executive Secretariat called attention to this matter during the last Bank missions, but
as yet no satisfactory solution has been found.
2.8        The Bank actively promoted better coordination among the four
intermediary government agencies responsible for implementing PADCT-I. Further,
program planners and members of the appraisal and supervision missions were active
in explaining to the scientific community PADCT-I goals and institutional design, thus
eliminating the initial resistance to the program raised in some sectors of the academic
community (which were not prepared to accept a program supporting only preselected
research areas). An important innovation included in the PADCT-I design was the
Foreign Exchange Expenditures Special Account (FESA), which proved to be
extremely useful for speeding up importation and for protecting the loan funds against
any political intervention.
2.9         After adequate response to the Borrower's test phase, the Bank
negotiated the program's definitive budget. During all subsequent phases, the Bank
carefully monitored project implementation with the cooperation of the special
advisory group (GEA). These follow-up activities involved several supervision
missions and had the active participation of members of Brazilian S&T communities.
D. The Borrower's Performance
2.10       The main goals of PADCT-I were (a) to strengthen the capability for
research (including human resources development) in specific S&T areas; and (b) to
improve Brazilian capacity in the management of science funding (peer review, better
coordination among funding agencies, and involvement of the scientific community in
sectoral planning). Evaluative studies conducted by the Bank, the Brazilian
Government, and independent analysts have demonstrated that PADCT-I was a
successful project.
2.11        One of the important achievements of the program was the integration of
the Brazilian S&T sectors, which occurred in some PADCT-I subprograms through
the establishment of research consortia between private or public enterprises and
academic laboratories. Such integration was long sought after in Brazil since the



- 16 -
elaboration of the first Basic Plan for Scientific and Technological Development
(PBDCT) in 1973-74.
2.12       The program not only fostered, but also benefitted from, a great cultural
change in Brazilian universities that happened in the last decade. Some important
state universities, such as the University of Sao Paulo, got financial autonomy in
exchange for improved quality control and promotion of adequate linkages between
basic research and the needs of the productive sector. Further, the Brazilian scientific
community became progressively receptive to the system of competitive grants and
peer review. This system was first implemented by federal and state agencies in
charge of basic research support (such as FAPESP and CNPq) in the early 1960s.
2.13       A key issue in PADCT-I implementation was the involvement of the
scientific community in the sectoral planning, through its strong participation in the
technical groups (GTs) that drew up the program's Basic Document, subprograms'
documents, and all calls for proposals. Moreover, the selection of the areas to be
supported followed, in many cases, the priorities already specified in the third
PBDCT, a plan that received the contribution of more than 1,000 members of the
S&T communities.
2.14       The four intermediary agencies implementing PADCT-I had their own
systems fbr the selection and appraisal of research projects. At FINEP and STI, the
projects were approved by their directive boards upon recommendation of the
technical staff, which usually took into consideration the opinions of ad hoc referees.
Applications are generally not solicited and do not conform to a predetermined
schedule. At CNPq and CAPES, applications for grants and scholarships are also not
solicited, although there is a schedule for sending out proposals, and the decisions are
based on the recommendations of appraisal committees that are composed of active
researchers.
2.15       PADCT-I had to face the difficulty of introducing a common system fbr
selecting and appraising research proposals to be exercised for all intermediary
agencies when dealing with PADCT-I projects, even if the agencies retained their own
systems when dealing with other programs. In the end, PADCT-I contributed to the
improvement of the processes of project selection. The GTs issue calls fbr proposals
where the priorities of each subprogram, as well as the budgetary limits fbr each class
of project, are clearly stated. Whenever possible, these calls fbr proposals encourage
intra- and interinstitutional cooperation, which has proved successful. The
applications are reviewed by appraisal committees (CAs) composed of specialists in
the fields covered by each call for proposals. This system received strong support
from the Brazilian scientific community, which also favors the introduction of such
procedures in other S&T funding programs, although this possibility requires a longer
demonstration by PADCT that the positive outcomes of the program resulted at least
in part from the research selection appraisal system. Even this system needs
refinements, which are being introduced in PADCT-II.
2.16       In conclusion, PADCT-I played a pivotal role in strengthening Brazil's
capacity in S&T. Some strategic areas, such as biotechnology, owe their very



- 17 -
emergence in the Brazilian scenario to the program's support. Impressive gains were
obtained in the area of basic industrial technology, where thousands of technicians
were trained in metrology and quality control. Traditional areas, such as chemistry
and mineral technology, were able to upgrade their laboratory infrastructure and
execute innovative projects for human resources development. Last, but not least, a
new concept of competitive grants, linked to sectoral planning and policy
implementation through calls for proposals, was consolidated in Brazil.
E. Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
2.17        From the early stages of PADCr-I implementation, the Bank was
cooperative and flexible in setting the operational rules for the program. Bank staff
played an active role in defining the PADCT institutional design, especially in such
matters as the peer review system. The Bank was also perceptive in dealing with such
issues as importation, inflation, and disbursement of local funds. Further, firm action
was taken to correct the deviations posed by the Emergency Program: the Bank
consented to some aspects of the Emergency Program, but rejected the funding of
projects outside the PADCT loan agreement.
2.18        In general terms, the Bank demonstrated persistence in solving the
problems related to implementing PADCT-I. This attitude was helpful in building up
the pressure needed to circumvent certain barriers, which avoided the interruption of a
successful and, for many reasons, important program. Finally, it would have been
beneficial to have a junior liaison officer from the Bank at the Bank's office in
Brasilia to clarify procedures related to routine operations. The same person could
also have assisted the supervision missions.
F. Comments on Part I
2.19        The document is essentially correct in the assessment of project
implementation and results, emphasizing lessons learned with broad application. Bank
performance is also properly analyzed. However, the extreme difficulty encountered
by the Executive Secretariat in handling interagency problems must be emphasized. A
transitory committee (CT) had this role during PADCT-I, but agencies resisted
strongly to the introduction of a (PADCT) system which heavily interfered with their
independent way of deciding on project proposals and program priorities. A federal
secretariat to consolidate and coordinate S&T policies in Brazil did not exist and was
created during PADCT-I, but its institutional structure was modified twice during
program implementation. Now this responsibility is exercised by the Ministry of
Science and Technology, and its political and institutional mandate to deal with all
S&T matters has been strengthened, which has improved coordination of S&T
activities among agencies.
2.20        Project Design and Organization. The Brazilian Government views
PADCT-I as a key organizational structure for supporting priority areas in S&T, as is
described in the program's main goals: (a) to establish and enforce priorities through
calls for proposals; (b) to provide competitive grants; (c) to finance interdisciplinary
areas; and (d) to foster joint actions involving the Brazilian S&T federal agencies. In



- 18 -
this context, PADCT-I had tw main goals: the fostering of research capacity (and
human resources) in strategic areas for Brazilian economic development and the
improvement of the country's capacity for managing S&T funding (peer review, better
coordination among intermediary agencies, the scientific community participation in
policymaking processes).
2.21        PADCT-I was innovative in articulating vertical research and training
subprograms in "hard" areas with horizontal support subprograms (e.g., basic
industrial technology, science education, maintenance of scientific equipment), thus
combining objectives and giving a comprehensive support for science and technology
activities. The institutional design of PADCT-CAs, GAs, and GEAs-proved to be
adequate for implementing and operating the program. Indeed, this structure
preserved the program's conceptual foundations through the various high-level
changes that affected the Brazilian S&T system during the 1985-90 period.
2.22        Project Implementation. The Bank's evaluation of PADCT-I in Part I
points out the following issues as problematic during project implementation:
(a) timely disbursement of counterpart funds; (b) protection of disbursed counterpart
funds from inflation; (c) delays for importing scientific equipment and consumables;
and (d) the MIS.
2.23        The Government agrees that the rigidity of CACEX general import
regulations, and the difficulties faced by CNPq when acting as the sole purchasing
agent for PADCT, were correctly indicated as the cause of the delays in the
importation process. However, it is worth noting that the pressures (made by the
S&T community and by the PADCT Executive Secretariat) for removing those
barriers were successful: in March 1990 Law No. 8010 was approved, which
facilitated all S&T imports.
2.24        The issue of the inflationary impact on project funding is properly
placed, especially with respect to the inability of project planners (from both the Bank
and the Government), to design a foolproof protection mechanism to prevent
budgetary erosion of awarded project proposals due to inflation. Even in PADCT-II,
this matter is still of great concern, although recent legislation by Congress points
toward a solution to the problem. Disbursement of counterpart funds was and
remains the key problem for the future of PADCT.
2.25        As PADCT-I progressed, agencies clearly were not prepared to work out
a satisfactory information system, as well as an adequate monitoring and evaluation
strategy for the program. This, in fact, was never corrected during PADCT-I and
was even more evident at the final evaluation of the program. Early in PADCT-II,
the Executive Secretariat and the Bank joined efforts to improve the MIS, at least to
record satisfactorily financial operations. In addition, a common strategy for project
follow-up activities was developed and is being tested during PADCT-II to provide
project output information to be incorporated in the information system.
2.26        Project Results. As in the Bank's review, the results are considered in
terms of performance and/or process objectives. The document demonstrates, for



- 19 -
instance, how some strategic research areas took off because of PADCT-1 support.
On the other hand, the improvements in coordination among the intermediary agencies
and the administrative procedures adopted for PADCT activities are presented as an
ongoing evolutionary process.
2.27       The participation of the scientific community in PADCT-I policymaking
and project review activities is one of the program's important achievements. The
Government considers that PADCT-I promoted a significant change in the attitudes
and perceptions of the scientific community regarding peer review and planning of
research funding. This change also affected staff of the intermediary agencies of
PADCT-I. The lessons learned in PADCT-I implementation will probably exert a
strong influence in the design of future programs in S&T in Brazil.
2.28       The Role of GEA. The Government wants to emphasize that the
extremely important role played by GEA as an independent body for monitoring and
evaluation of PADCT-I is equally important for PADCT-II. The analysis and always-
firm position taken by the competent GEA members with respect to problems that had
to be solved during PADCT-I implementation were of paramount importance, both
technically and politically, to correct deviations of the program from its objectives and
goals. GEA reports constitute an important historical source of information about
PADCT-I. This approach of utilizing an independent body composed of foreign and
Brazilian specialists for the evaluation of S&T programs was an innovation of
PADCT-I, and must be extended, as it has been, to other S&T programs.
G. Comments on Part III
2.29       Statistical Data. The Bank's review provides good insight into the
relative weight of PADCT operations in the context of the federal Government's
expenditures on S&T. The strategic role of PADCT-I on the importation of scientific
equipment and consumables is well demonstrated. The statistical data related to the
Bank loan operations are informative and accurate.
2.30       Descriptive Information. Selected outcomes for the 10 PADCI'-I
subprograms are given. Each of these descriptions includes a summary on
subprogram objectives and lists successful projects and their sectoral impact. Tables
on the status of the covenants and Bank missions were provided and are essentially
correct. The studies financed under the loan are listed in a separate table. This table
does not include the economic and planning studies contracted at the subprogram level
(e.g., the economic studies financed by the Biotechnology Subprogram).
2.31       The Government wants to analyze the comments by the Bank with
respect to anomalies in the financial information (para. 1.27). The Bank suggests that
discrepancies between funds received and funds disbursed by agencies must be
investigated by persons skilled in financial/accounting analysis. It must be said that
this role in Brazil is played by the National Comptroller's Office (TCU), which
analyzes all federal accounts, disbursements, and allocations of funds, including, of
course, those of the intermediary agencies involved in PADCT-I. The discrepancies
are due (as mentioned in para. 2.25) to the exercise of rules in the program, which



- 20 -
did not require agencies (especially FINEP) to disburse funds received in cruzeiros (or
cruzados or new cruzados), so as to maintain their value vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar.
FINEP could invest funds from PADCT and return dividends to the program, but the
exercise of this prerogative was not followed strictly as needed because of difficulties
by the Executive Secretariat in coordinating agency administrative matters and the lack
(during part of PADCI-I) of a federal secretariat of S&T. As intermediary agencies
received PADCT-I funds in local currency and retained the disbursement of these
funds for administrative or bureaucratic reasons, the funds faced devaluation of up to
2.5 percent per day with respect to the U.S. dollar, as the rate of inflation in Brazil
reached a peak of 80 percent per month during Sarney's government. The
progressive accumulation of losses during seven years of PADCT-I implementation
was certainly responsible for the anomalies mentioned in para. 1.27 of Part 1.



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(LOAN 2489-BR)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
'iables
1   Related Bank loans or credits
2   Project timetable
3a Selected PADCT-I outcomes by subprogram
3b Selected displays on expenditures on science and technology (S&T)
3c PADCT-I share of scientific equipment imported by CNPq
3d Proposals submitted and contracts signed by subprogram and call fbr proposals
3e Participation of Brazilian scientists in decision making and research and
development (R&D)
3f Selected research and studies financed under PADCT-I
4   Bank missions
5   Use of Bank resources
6   Schedule of disbursements
7   Allocation of loan proceeds
8   Status of covenants






- 22 -
Table 1: Related Bank loans or credits
Loan Title                 Purpose                 Approval           Status
Loan 1462-BR        To develop the capacity of the  June 9, 1977     Closed
Vocational Training   Ministry of Labor to perform its               Dec. 31, 1982
function of guiding the expansion
of the major public and private
vocational training agencies, and
to increase vocational training
opportunities in selected
subsectors and geographical
areas.
Loan 1867-BR        To construct and/or remodel,    June 10, 1980    Closed
Northeast Basic     furnish, and equip 2,033 Basic                   Sept. 1, 1987
Education           Education Schools (classrooms).
Loan 2366-BR        Th define a long-term           Dec. 8, 1983     Closed
Technician Training   development policy for                         Oct. 17, 1990
agricultural and industrial
technical training at national and
regional levels, and to provide
the agricultural and industrial
sectors with the specialized skills
required for development.
Loan 2412-BR        To improve quality and          May 17, 1984    Closed
Urban Basic         efficiency in the first four grades              Feb. 28, 1991
Education           in primary schools.
Loan 2810-BR        To strengthen the institutional  May 12, 1987    Closing'
Skills Formation    framework, response capacity,                    June 30, 1996
and training functions of the
National Vocational Training
System, and to improve access to
public vocational training
programs via expansion of
services in areas of the country
underserved.
1. Although the project is not yet closed, a PCR has already been prepared and sent to OED.



- 23 -
Table 1: Related Bank loans or credits (continued)
Loan 3269-BR        To consolidate the gains made   Nov. 29, 1990    Closing
Science Research    under an earlier project in human                Dec. 31, 1995
and Training        resource development, research
capacity strengthening in specific
science areas, and institutional
reform, and to improve the
management of Brazil's science
and technology sector and the
policy environment for
technological innovation in the
private sector.
Loan 3375-BR        To improve primary school       June 26, 1991    Closing
Innovations in Basic  learning and retention among                   June 30, 1998
Education           children of poor families in
greater Sao Paulo in a manner
that could eventually be adapted
to other states.



- 24 -
lfble 2: Project timetable
Date planned          Date revised          Actual date
Identification                                                 November 8, 1982
Preparation                                                   February 21, 1983
Appraisal                                                     January 20, 1984
Post appraisal                                                July 1, 1984
Review                                                         October 12, 1984
Loan negotiations                                             December 17, 1984
Board approval                                                January 29, 1985
Signature                                                      February 6, 1985
Effectiveness                                                 July 9, 1985
Closing           December 31, 1990      December 31, 1991    December 31, 1991
Completion        June 30, 1990          December 31, 1991    December 31, 1991



- 25 -
T'able 3a: Selected PADCT-I outcomes by subprogram
GIM-Geosciences and Mineral Technology                              External $10,370,000
No. of projects supported: 379, 279 in R&D                    Average project size $64,000
Local resources amounted to $13,926,000
Lack of human resources for exploiting the Country's mineral resources was the main
concern. Reinforcement of scientific research on mineral resources has led to the improvement of
laboratories in geosciences and mineral technology. Deficiencies in basic geosciences knowledge
about Brazil were faced in part by supporting new laboratories where scientists were able to
produce high-quality data. New mineral deposits were discovered. Issues associated with mining
effects on environmental degradation led to the specific support of research on physical
environment use and occupation in PADCT-II. The discovery of a new gold deposit in the
Amazon will generate economic resources that exceeds the entire cost of PADCT-II. Successful
projects include the following:
1.  In PUC-Rio de Janeiro, the consolidation of a research center on niobium, titanium, and
tantalus chlorination, where technology to obtain niobium oxide dominated.
2.  In COPPE-Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, technology control to obtain metallic
tantalum and magnesia.
3.  Technology transfer of lithium and zinc extraction processes to a large, private Brazilian
company, Votorantin, which produces cement.
4.  Publication of research on Parana basin.
5.  Research on modelling of processes aimed at better use of coal.
ICT-Science Information                                     External resources: $350,000
No. of projects: 32                                        Average size of grant: $74,188
Local funds: $1,092,000
Performance of this subprogram was prejudiced by a 75 percent cut in its budget because of
the Emergency Program. Pulverization of support has led to fragmentation of the projects. After
the cut, the subprogram lacked coordination between projects. Successful projects include the
following:
1.  Analysis of the Brazilian scientific and technical information production in chemistry and
chemical engineering areas.
Source: Caspar Erich Stemmer, PADCT and Final Report, and World Bank, Staff Appraisal
Report-Brazil-Science Research and Rtaining Project, October 19, 1990.



- 26 -
Table 3a: Selected outcomes in PADCT-I subprograms (continued)
2.  Increase of national data base units from 14 foreign data base units in 1984 to 31 in 1988,
excluding those available in CDROM. Increase of INTERDATA services for access to
foreign data bases.
3.  Exchange of professors in library science and information sciences.
4.  Support to the national network for primary publications exchange.
5.  Implementation of the Information Science Information Service (ISIS).
PGCT-Science Planning and Management                               Local funds: $1,904,000
No. of projects: 106                                           External resources: $470,000
No. of institutions involved: 31
Support provided to three large universities has resulted in the strengthening of master's and
doctoral degree programs in science policy planning and management. Development of an
academic base of science policy studies will continue in PADCT-II, with preferential support to
lines of research rather than to individual studies. Scattering of results and heavy participation of
the agencies as users of funds were the main focus of criticism to the subprogram. Successful
projects include the following:
1.  Creation of two masters programs, seven doctorate abroad and one post-doctoral.
2.  Twelve events (courses, seminars, symposia).
3.  Consolidation of nine PGCT educational and research centers.
4.  Support of five fellowships.
5.  Support to 30 PGCT research projects.
QEQ-Chemistry and Chemical Engineering                       External resources: 16,200,000
No. of projects supported: 409                                Average project size: $83,819
Local resources: $18,082,000
The objective of supporting the training of chemistry researchers and strengthening emergent
research groups in PADCT-I was met mainly by:
6.  re-equipping graduate and undergraduate programs in the areas,
7.  strengthening of 16 graduate research centers,
8.  establishing or re-equipping three national laboratories in spectroscopy, chromatography and
natural products,
9.  establishment of three centers for emerging chemistry areas: pharmaceutical synthesis,
polymers and photochemistry, organic synthesis,
10. supporting collaboration between universities, research institutes and industry, and
11. establishing central and regional chemistry libraries.



- 27 -
Table 3a: Selected outcomes in PADCT-I subprograms (continued)
These efforts enabled PADCT-II to increase economic objectives, such as the adaptation of
important new technologies for the chemical industry. Successful projects include the following:
1.  QEQ projects led to the export of 14 products supported by the subprogram, involving the
enterprises Libbs, Planalquimica, PVP, and Champion.
2.  In CODETEC, Companhia de Desenvolvimento Tecnologico (once an enterprise nursery
inside UNICAMP) in cooperation with CODEQUIMA, the production of pharmaceutical
drugs.
3.  CODETEC's cooperation with INMETRO for standardization of pieces and parts. These
efforts resulted in a joint Program for Quality and Productivity Improvement.
Generally speaking, success in this subprogram can be measured mainly by the re-equipment
of universities' laboratories, which gave them the infrastructure needed for development of
emerging areas, such as drug synthesis, medical chemistry, polymers, photochemistry, and
organic synthesis.
SBIO-Biotechnology                                      External expenditures: $11,910,000
No. of projects supported: 253                              Average project size: $181,600
Local expenditures: $10,741,000
Development of human resources in this new field is even more important to meet economic
objectives and is reinforced in PADCr-II through the planned utilization of 150 foreign
consultants, training abroad of 250 professionals, exchange with 150 foreign researchers, and
support for 75 scientists in research projects. Successful projects include the following:
1.  The Oswaldo Cruz Institute produced a Leishmania vaccine with the joint efforts of
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais and Biobras, a biotechnology company.
2.  In Butanta Institute, production of anti-venom sera was improved, as well as hemoderived
products, enzymes, vaccines against meningitis A and B, and a vaccine against whooping
cough.
3.  FundasAo Ezequiel Dias now produces 300,000 doses per year of anti-venom sera, closing
the gap in the supply of these products in the country.
4.  In the Universidade de Brasilia, the Laboratory of Cellular Biology successfully produced
human insulin by genetic engineering, involving a university-industry consortium.
5.  Artificial skin from cellulose was produced and commercialized using biotechnological
methods.
6.  Diagnostic kits for Chagas' disease were produced and commercialized.
7.  In Biotechnology Pole (Bio-Rio) in Rio de Janeiro, a virus-resistant potato strain was
produced, inaugurating science-industry contracts at Bio-Rio.
8.  Animal germ plasm was preserved to improve livestock through embryo transfer techniques.



- 28 -
Table 3a: Selected outcomes in PADCT-I subprograms (continued)
SINST-Instrumentation                                     Local expenditures: $12,860,000
No. of projects supported: 269                           External expenditures: $4,470,000
The program has been very successful in joining the efforts of physicists and engineers and
in linking universities to industry for research and training. Thirteen projects were transferred to
the productive sector. Further, several small firms were created to supply enterprises with the
instrumentation needed. Successful projects include the following:
1.  A monitoring system for fermentation and distillation processes and ethyl alcohol
production.
2.  A nuclear magnetic resonance apparatus based on tomography.
3.  A spectral analyzer used in electrical engineering areas.
Six instruments are currently in commercial production. Thirty prototypes of instruments
were developed under PADCT-I in areas such as industrial control of processes, analytical,
electrical, electronic, mechanical, and biomedical measurements, available for transfer to industry.
SPEC-Science Education                                   External expenditures: $2,050,000
No. of projects: 167                                        Average size of project $76,000
Local expenditures: $10,690,000
A strategy to improve science education in primary and secondary schools involved
encouraging practicing scientists to join educators in this difficult task. The impact is still limited,
however, because the program is new and few people are involved, and because problems of a
rather different nature exist, such as the structure of basic education in the country. SPEC
encouraged the involvement of state and municipal education authorities in developing in-service
teacher training and caused an increase in meetings of teachers aiming at knowledge and
experience exchanges. Fifteen thousand teachers were involved with its subprojects. It was also
responsible for the enrollment of 45,000 teachers, supporting in-service teacher training as well as
meetings and congresses on mathematics and science education. Successful projects include the
following:
1.  An integrated project of the Universidade Federal de Rio Grande do Sul, involving six
universities for science and mathematics courses reformations.
2.  Physics Curricula Critical Review for Secondary Education, conducted by the Institute of
Physics, USP, involving 88 school teachers and about 4,000 students per year in 1986/87.
SPIN-Consumables                                                 Local funds: $1,535,941
No. of projects: 101                                      Average size of projects: $42,077



- 29 -
Table 3a: Selected outcomes in PADCT-I subprograms (continued)
SPIN aimed to support studies on the supply and demand of consumables, and to establish
standardization and quality certification of consumables destined for teaching and research.
Private enterprises are not interested in supplying chemicals or other research consumables
because of the narrowness of the market. So, the paucity of consumables has always been a
problem to face. This occurs mainly in chemistry, chemical engineering, and biotechnology
research. Delays in subprogram reprogramming of 80 percent of the program groups that did not
achieve its goals have led to increase in monitoring and evaluations in PADCT-II. Successful
projects include the following:
1.  SARDI: In February 1987 the Instituto Butanta in Sao Paulo inaugurated the central supply
house for chemicals and consumables, where acids and other corrosives, reagents,
radioactive chemicals, highly inflammable solvents, and repacking bulk items are kept in
separate rooms. The scientific community had great expectations with the project. The
project presented serious problems: delays of up to two years from the rigid import
regulations and the high cost to SARDI of stock maintenance in keeping expensive
consumables.
2.  UMBRAL: A program to increase the availability of reagents in small quantities within the
universities.
3.  Production of 600 items of different reagents, in total 50 tons per month in an enterprise
funded by a group of researchers of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, and the
construction of laboratory scale, purification, and quality certification of 18 types of inputs
(reagents for use in organic chemistry) frequently used in laboratories of teaching and
research in the Chemistry Department, USP/Ribeirao Preto.
SPM-Maintenance and Repair Services                          External resources: $3,570,000
No. of projects: 118                                       Average size of projects: $58,220
Local funds: $3,300,000
Installation of maintenance structures (6 nuclei, 15 centers, and 28 units of teaching and
research equipment), promoted the performance of teaching and research in universities.
Maintenance was included in the budget planning of universities. SPM helped to promote
understanding of the maintenance activity, not only in the repair of equipment, but also in
restoring and updating inactive equipment. SPM also supported the acquisition of new
equipment, and helped define the rules for preventive maintenance and for appraisal of used
equipment, for depreciation accountability in stock regulation. Successful projects include the
wrkshops of the Physics and Chemistry Department in Caxias do Sul University in Rio Grande
do Sul fbr glass technicians; these workshops promote the recovery and construction of important
glass equipment for laboratories in the university.



- 30 -
Table 3a: Selected outcomes in PADCr-I subprograms (continued)
TIB-Basic Industrial Technology                                Local funds: $17,088,000
No. of projects: 207                                      External resources: $9,250,000
Measurement and test methods are a recognized problem in Brazilian industry, generating
difficulties in standardization of products. The Government has created the Program of Quality
and Productivity to face this and other related problems. PADCT-I has provided support fbr this
equipment and training to INMETRO. INMETRO is still lacking high-level researchers,
however. Successful projects include the fbllowing:
1.  Support given to INMETRO Scientific Metrology Center to the amount of $5,659,191
enabled the center to buy equipment and train its personnel.
2.  Implementation of 15 nuclei of technological extension, 25 calibration laboratories, and 48
testing laboratories.
3.  Support given to the National Observatory of $2,245,199 to buy equipment for time and
frequency diffusion.
4.  The implementation of the Specialization Project on Quality Administration (PEGQ) was in
part financed by PADCr-I in its first phase. PEGQ has involved 273 private enterprises and
170 public companies, trained directly 1,984 individuals in the country and 120 abroad.
With the multiplier effect, it is expected that by 1984 about 6,900 professionals will be
trained by PEGQ and also that the private sector will train about 50,000 people in its
specific areas.



Table 3b: Selected cxpenditurws on science and technology (S&T)
National expenditures on S&T (millions of U.S. dollars)
Yew            TOWl  _o              Todl fedeal       Fedal xpmedi= on           Fedala           Fedral          MCT yeey         PADCT-P
expmdia   as S&T    G_       vaint                Wz              exmdiua    eaqpidwa an               cxpaadim,-
expcmdiun  on ShT    develop_eat (R&D) md    beak ewp         qpliped   incu m ieg PADCT
_nusm                                                 _ad ecichta
CAPES
19S0                  1,651.74               124.54                  5S0.U            153.71           260.2S             472.66
1911                  2.740.00             1,519.56                 638.28            140.00           323.42             430.30
1912                  3,147.34             1.,63.32                  923.14           152.93           486.79             437.65
1913                  2,422.45              1.475.40                 906.69           131.32           567.56             398.27
1914                  2,409.41             1,426.67                  $65.14            93.38           541.33             363.76         0.45
1985                 3,069.71              1,953.82                1.111U3            122.30           646.28             456.58         9.59
197                  3,674.85             2,268.62                1,368.03           166.33           *42.97             530.34        20.63
1918                  3.771.69             2,556.05                1,338.36           151.89           691.11             760.66        21.15
1989                  3628.66              2,506.36                1.349.59           148.06           636.10             771.61        25.78
1990                  3,324.46             2.147.11                1,113.44           143.26           346.55             757.57        24.04
1991                  2,938.91              1,67S.97                 864.53           212.34           278.19             752.67        32.51
1992                                       1,579.33                  841.91           211.55           277.27             541.22        35.43
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    169.94



Table 3b: Selected expenditures on science and technology (S&T) (continued)
PADCT-I expenditures on S&T as a percentage of total national expenditures on S&TP
Year          % of toal naioal       % of total fcderl          % of fcdenl           % of federnl      % of federal     % of MCT agency
expenditures on S&T       Govemmaet            expenditue on R&D       expeditur  on      cxpcndite on         expenditures
expenditue on S&T         and engineering        baic rsearch      applied resarch
1984                       0.02                   0.03                     0.05               0.48               0.08                0.12
1985                       0.31                   0.49                     0.86               7.84               1.48                2.10
1986                       0.56                   0.90                      1.49             12.40               2.45                3.89
1987                       0.56                   0.83                      1.58             13.83               3.03                2.75
1988                       0.71                   1.03                      1.91             17.41               4.05                3.34
1989                       0.72                   1.12                     2.16              16.78               6.93                3.17
1990                       1.11                   1.92                     4.7               15.21              11.88                4.32
1991                      --                      2.24                     4.21              16.74              12.77                6.55
Aveage                       0.57                   1.07                     2.00               7.40               5.33                3.28
a. Inchades cmnagrent expenditures. PADCT, INPE, INPA. INT. CTI, FNDCT, FINEP, and CNPq.
b. From Fnal Report of PADCT-I. Executive Summaiy. p. 23.
c. Sbaities of the Minitiy of Scienc and Technology.



- 33 -
Tlible 3c: PADCT-I share of scientific equipment imported by CNPq
(U.S. dollars)
(1)            ~~     ~      ~~(2)(2/1
Year             CNPq imports        PADCT imports      PADCT imports as %
of CNPq imports
1985                  213,507.59            126,962.62               59.47
1986                 1,075,115.60           443,105.64               41.21
1987                 5,909,045.79         3,811,545.10               64.50
1988                 9,598,967.45         4,926,863.70               51.33
1989                12,404,620.72         6,292,973.63               50.73
1990                 9,063,683.35         3,361,842.46               37.09
1991                12,417,744.45         1,661,438.46                13.38
1992                  953,076.88            842,791.87                88.43
Total               51,635,760.83        21,467,521.48                41.57
Source: GIM, SAD, CNPq, and MCT.



Table 3d: Proposals submitted and contracts signed by subprogram and call for proposals
Cal for     P=Proposals        1       2       3        4        5       6        7       8      9       10      All    Rate of
proposal    C = Contracts    QEQ    GTM    SBIO    SINST    SPEC    ICT    PGCT    TIB    SPM           SPIN             success
period
Test period       P            521      547    495       416      248    114      195    164      128      26   2,854    14%
1984              C             70      40      60        38       54     14       38     62       24       5     405
1985              P            337     259    224        214      148     15      101     75       70      10   1,453    37%
C            105     123      75        59      62       8      43      36      21        5     537
1986/87           P            251     265    325         93      135    119       28     90     212       13   1,531    44%
C            166     132      98        42      73      10        8     66      72        9     676
1988/89           P             30     160      90       241       -       -       70     43      179     114    927    46%
C             -       84      20        75       -      -        31     43      93       82     428
Total             P           1,139   1,231   1,134      964      531    248      394    372      589      163   6,765    30%
C            341     379    253        214     189      32      120    207     210      101   2,046
% success                     30%    31%    22%         22%      36%    13%      30%   56%       36%     62%    30%
rate
Approx.           -             33       22     24         17      12       1       2      22       6       5      144
amount
spent
(millions of
US$)
Notes: QEQ = Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Subprogram, GTM = Geosciences and Mineral Technology Subprogram, SBIO =
Biotechnology Subprogram, SINST = Instrumentation Subprogram, SPEC = Science Education Subprogram, ICT = Science Information
Subprogram, PGCT = Science Planning and Management Subprogram, TIB = Basic Industrial Technology Subprogram, SPM = Maintenance
and Repair Services Subprogram, SPIN = Consumables Subprogram.
Source: Meeting reports of CAs and GTs as compiled in PADCT-I, Evaluative Data, Final Report, April 1993.






c ~ ~~~~~                                     ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~ ;1 f  f
L~~~~~0                                     iii |1]X 51      SjI /'I '1!
4:S~~~~~~r 



