DOCwuAnnt of'
The Workd -Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-5443-SE.
)IEKRANDU AND REGOIOIMEATION
ON,&~~~~~O
S.MINTRNATIONA JDF.VEOPMENT ASSOCITIO
O ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ OE
ON A   iPOPObt CREd"-IfT W  o



Curriency Unit =CFA Franc (CIFAF) I tS$ 1.0   CFAF 260 (October 199)
I m   1.09 yd.,
I m2  10,16 sq. ft.
1 kilometer (kn)   0.62 mile
CPR          Contraceptive prealnc z*e
CHO          COMM*ult I*eatt OrSazwzatiol
DM0~         Distrct M_edwca Officer
J9SAF        Ehne  tutfiAjtetFclt
F?           Fapul?ann
HP-'         Hatpost
2Uealth Post Nurse,
MY~~     Ministry of YouhandSot
ODA      ~Officiat Deveto ment Asstn
SS*A                le-ah~z AfiA -
'SAT      -. Suliaflv TaraAncmitte
fbr yoP~  ~I w1, 199  D. eie ~  ~2



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
REPUBLBC OF SENEGAL
HUMAN RESOURCESDVEOPMENT PROJEr
CREmI AD R    SUMMARY
Republic of Senegdl
MinIstries of Heath and Social Affairs; Economy, Finance
and Planing; Inteior; Youth and Sports; Women
zCredit Amount:      SDR25.4 million (JS$35.0 milion equivalent)
mm                   SSndard, with 40 years marity
0n1_ft   Tens:   Not applicable
:WNWU DW.            IDA           US$ 35.0 million
Governmet  US$  2.9 mfLlion,
TOTAL         US$ 37.9 million
of Relmn:            Not applicable.
BeROM                Report No. 9180-SE
M:                   IBRD 22835
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the  dormance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without WMrid Bankk juthor 



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR A
HUMAN RESQIURC  DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
1.           The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development credt to
the Republic of Senegal for SDR2S.4 mUIlion (US$35.0 million equivalent) is subm;ted for approval.
The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years and would help fiac
a human resources development project for the population and health sectors. Government would
contribute about US$2.9 million.
I. Country Policies and Bank Group's Assistance Stratef 1/
Backemund
2.           Structural Characteristics of the Economy. The Senegalese economy shares many
deactics with those of its Sahelian neighbors: limited natural resources; an agricultural production
base that is deteriorating because of the cumulative adverse effects of poor weather coupled with poor
resource mz aement policies and techniques; a high population growth rate (about 3.0 percent p.a.); and
heavy depenu=e on extrnal funding, with annual ODA net flows (US$80 p.c. in 1988) generally
exceeding investinents. The domestic market is small with a total population of about 7 million. Per
capita GNP in 1989 was estimated to be US$670. Economic policy in Senegal has not compensaed for
poor resource endowment, and has, in the past, contributed to the laclduster economic performane
through encouraging a large public sector with a record of inefficient resource utilization, as reflected in
the high ICOR.
3.           Despite considerable efforts at modernization, the Senegalese economy has not yet escaped
its dependence on traditional mainstays: millet cultivation and cattle raising for domestic consumption,
and groundnut production, fishing, and exploitation of phosphate deposits for export. Despite recent
encouraging economic performance due to good weatber conditions, production levels have barely reached
those attained in the period before the 1983/84 drought. Both rural and urban average incomes are lower
in real terms than in 1960. A feature of the economy is the high concentration in Dakar and the coastal
*         belt of most modern sector employment, commercial facilities and social services, resulting in important
interregional differences in economic potential and consumption patterns. With limited near-term
potential for economic diversification, Senegal's economy is highly vulnerable to climatic vagaries and
adverse movements in international commodity markets. Lacking the rich agricultural potent  or
mineral resources of other countries on the West African coast, Senegal's growth prospects are modest.
1/ Based on the President's Rept for a Strctural Adjustment Program (SAL IV: Report P5185-SB)
which was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1990, and on the findins of trcent
mission to Senegd to help the Goveament implement its mareonomic and sectoral adjuAmenut
progams.



-2 -
4.           PtEconomic Per1folance (191Z). Senegal's economic pefoman  in the period
1960-1985 was disappointing: GDP growth was estmated at 2.3% p.a. Other ndices of soco-ecovoulc
progrs during this period also showed Senega  fing behind the geelly poor levels recorded for Sub-
Saharan Africa as a whole: life exqctancy (Senega 48 years, SSA 50 years), primary school enrollment
rate (55% vs 68%), and a higher-than-average percentage of the population ling below povety leves.
5.           in the initi post-indepandence period (1960-1966), GDP growth (about 3.5% p.a.)
outpaced the populaion growth rate (about 2.9% p.a.). Economic management was relativey sound:
Goverment Investments were primarly dircted towards the buding of Infatructure (roads, educational
infdhsructure, rural istitidons) and such investments were redaively efice  (ICOR over the 1960-66
period averaged 4.9). In 1966, Senegal lost the prefetial treatn  accorded to the country's
agricultur exports to the EEC and also encountered a series of poor rainfl yes. Overall GDP gowth
fell from 3.5%  p.a. on average during the 1960-1966 ped to 2%  between 1967 and 1975.
Nevertheless, the growth of government consumption, already bigh durig the earlier period, continued.
Further, in 1976-1978, a fortuitous series of good rinfall and harvests and high world prices for
commodity exports (phosphate and groundnut products) led to a short-lived export boom masking for a
time, the potential effects of the increase in oil prices. Consumption growth, both by the Govment
(6.5% p.a.) and the private sector (5.0%) outstripped the GDP growth rate ofjustover 3% p.a. recorded
in 1974-1978. The savings rate showed a dramatic decline, flling from 12.3% of GM  in 1975 to less
than 1% of GDP by 1979, after which it tuned negatdve. The spurt in expendir ignited by the boom
was sustained by exteral borrowing of the Govenment, used to finance massive bs    in   -
productive assets. Between 1975 and 1980, disbursed Government and Governent-guaranteed debt on
commercial terms increased more than two-fold to about US$452 million.
Table 1. KBV Social kdig=rs
1980~~ SSA 19
Pojilaton (million)                            5.7           6.9          463.9
% urban                                 35.0         37.5          28.0
Growth Rate %                            2.8          2.9           3.1
Fertilit
Crade Birth Rate (per 1000)             46.4         45.5          47.2
Total Fertility Rate                     6.5          6.5           6.7
(births/womian)
Mortality
Crude Death Rate (per 1000)             20.8          16.0          15.8
Infant Mortality (per 1000)             14.7          8.6           10.8
Life Expectancy at Birth (yrs)          45.2         48.0          50.6
Medical Care 
Population per physician (000)          13.1         17.0           4.8
Population per nurse (000)               2.0          2.8           2.5
% of children immunized                 17.0         70.0          n.a.
Education
Prmiary Enrollment Ratio                46.0         55.0          68.0
Pupil/Teacher Raio (primary)            46.0         54.0          40.0



-3 -
6.           Recent Adjustment HiM ry (195-12988M. Senegal is in the last year of a Medium Term
Economic Recovery Program planned to run during the period 1985-92 and which has been suppored
by two SALs In 1986 and 1987 and an IMP ESAF (1986). The program's objecdve was to retun the
coury to a sustainable growth path after correcting severe financial Imbalances. In addition to acdons
to reduce the overall budget deficit and to resolve the extermal debt problem, the Govrnmens domestc
arrears were to be eliminated in an orderly manner. To restore growth, the Government planned to
improve the quality of public investments by concentrating its limited resources on rehabilitation of the
productive Inftru re. Above all, the private sector was to be encouraged via a liberalized reglatory
environment (especially in trade and pricing) and an Improved incentives system, and a sound financi
sector.
7.           During the 1985-88 period, real GDP growth averaged 4.3 percent per annum. In
addition to improved export prices, agricultural output in particular, grew rapidly - an average of 7.1%
p.a. - admittedly from a low, drought-influenced base. This performance, as well as the related reoovery
of the vegetable oil milling and transport sectors and rainfall influenced growth in the ouWput of the
livestock sector, was more than enough to offset an otherwise stagnant IntriW sector and a declining
services sector (other than transport). Because of the dominant effect of climatic factors on these results,
sustnbiity cannot be taken for granted. The only policy action which may have conibut    to this
performance was the significant increase of producer price for groundnuts, in real terms, in both 198
and 1986.
8.           Untl about 1988, the reform program showed good progress toward the objectives of
maoeconomic sabilization. The overall fiscal deficit on a commitment basis and excluding grants, fell
to a low of 2.6 percent of GDP in 1988, from 8.8 percent of GDP in 1983. The ext     current accout
deficit, excluding official grants also fell sharply from 19.2 percent to 9.5 pacent of GDP over the same
period, mainly through the curtailment of imports. With prudent demand management policy, gross
domestic expenditure, which had exceeded GDP in the first half of the eighties, declined considerably
and domestic savings, rose from negative levels to 7 percent of GDP in 1988. Inflationary pressures
were also dampened - the GDP deflator, fell to an annual average of 2.1 percent, from 12 percent in
1984 - thus arresting the trend towards real exchange appreciation.
9.           The stabilization gains of this period, pardcularly in the area of budgetary balance, have
proved to be difficult to sustain (see below). The domestic revenue base has remained smal and stagnant
(the share of tax revenues in GDP fell from 18% in 1984 to 14.3% in 1988), and the dependence on
revenues from taxation of petroleum imports - over a qualter of revenues in the last few years - bas
imparted considerable uncertainty to the budgetary situation, whilst the resulting higher energy prices
have contributed to the continued lack of competitiveness of the Senegalese economy. Much of the
expenditure cuts have come through curbing investment outaye (public investments were 15.3% of GDP
in 1984 but had fallen to 6.6% in 1989 which is not sufficient for mere asset replacemen). Senega has
also been very dependent on direct budgetary assistance from abroad to cover current expendiures,
including the servicing of foreign debt and the repayment of arrears (in 1987, donors provided almost
half of the Government's total resources). On the external account, while nominat imports as a share of
GDP have fallen, due to the decline in unit prices of imports - from 54 percent of GDP in the early
1980s to 35 percent in 1988 - export growth has lagged behind GDP growth in spite of the moderate
improvements in both unit export prices and the terms of trade over the period. Nominal exports as a
share of GDP fell from 35 percent to 26 percent over the same period. Although public debt outstanding
has risen at a slower rate than GDP, debt rescheduling has had to be sought each year from the Paris
Club since 1983 to maintain the debt service ratio at a level that does not jeopardize the overall
macroeconomic framework.



-4.-
Recent Developments (1989-90)
10.          Since mid-1989, Senegal has relaunched Its adjus_tmt program with the support of the
IDA-flnanced SAL IV, under which more focused reforms are being undetaken to improve public
rource management, streamline the regulatory environment, and strengthen the inctives for invemnt
and productive activities by the private sector. In addition, a thorough restrcuring of a falling banking
system, accompanied by flnancial sector and credit policy reforms, has been initated under the IDA-
supported Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
11.          The progran supported by SAL IV attempts to consolidate and deepen the poliies
initiated under the Medium Term Economic Recovery Program. In the area of improved reource
management, the Government has committed itself to reducing the recurrent budget throug a downsizing
of the civi service and a reduction in budgetary transfers to the parapublic sector. Tho civil sernice staff
reduction effort, in spite of its voluntary nature, started well. By June 1990, 2030 civil sevant out of
2700 who had applied, had left. Some 2100 more civil servants have applications pending but
implementation of the voluntary departure program has slackened since July 1990, largely becase
Government has not set aside the funds required to pay agreed separation packages. This, and a recent
rash of recruitments, jeopardize the prospect of achieving significant and pemanen reductions in
Senegal's non-interest current expenditures. The reduction of budgetry transfers to the parastata sector
is also running behind target. As of the end of May 1990, commitments of subsidies to pptastatas
exceeded targets by CFAF 1.3 billion. For the most part, this difference is accounted for by transfers to
agencies associated with the higher education sedor which is considered politically sensitive in Senegal.
12.          The reform program to improve incentives in private sector actvity consiss of actions
to reduce production costs, improve tax administration, simplify import procedures and or abolish other
administrative controls on enterprises. The measures undertaken so far have had the effect of icreasing
labor market flexibility and slightly reducing the cost of labor to small firms and entepris  in the Free
Trade Zone of Dakar as well as recently reducing telecommunications costs to industries. Implemtion
of new measures to reduce energy prices have been delayed by the great uncraies in the petroleum
market resulting from the Gulf war.
13.          The reform of the banking sector enmisaged the liquidation, restruuring or merger of
some nine out of the 15 banks in Senegal, which were in financial crisis. So far, six banks have
effectively ceased operations and three more banks have been recapitalized. Progress is satisfactory on
ceding majority-Government ownership in two other banks. At the same time, the Central Bank has
initiated reforms aimed at removing controls on lending margins and on secoral allocations of credit; in
setting a base interest rate which is anchored to a market rate (the French Treasury rate) and determined
in large part by the supply and demand of banks' liquidity; and improving bank eaminatin and
supervision. Rules governing crop credit have also been modified with the result that loan amounts can
be no more than 81% of the value of the crop and there is now also a requirement to demonstrate that
crop purchasing agencies can service such debt. These measures should go a long way towards
preventing the reappearance of unserviceable crop purchase loans which have been a major contbutory
factor to the recent banking crisis.
14.          Since 1989, the fragility of the stabilization gains, particularly in the area of fiscal
balance, has been demonstrated in a dramatic fashion. Revenue performance, relative to both GDP and
anticipated levels, has continued to decline. This has been due maWy to the lack of signiffcant
improvements in tax administration (particularly in customs), and the further weakening in the narrow
tax base due to the absence of a strong enough formal sector supply response to the various measures of
economic liberalization, while ininrmal sector activity has grown considerably. In late 1989, the impact



-5 -
of these factors on revenues, was exacerbated by border disturbances wlth Mauritania. Expenditure
ovruns have also continued. As a result, the Govenment budget deficit has widened in two consecutive
fiscal years, reaching 4.7 percent of GDP in 1990, with inevitable crowding-out effects on the private
sector and inadequate resources for necessary operations and maintenance expenditures. Significandy,
the Govemment's preoccupation with the fiscal situation has meant thas progress on structural measures
has been much slower than expected.
15.          Ite deterioration in the fisca  balance position has nt had any immediate significant
ffects on key macroconomic objectives - economic activity rebounded in 1990 as agriculture recovered
from the drought of 1989 (real GDP grew by 4.4 percent), inflation has remained low (at less than 3
percent) and the externa sector siation has continued to improve (the current account deficit fell to 7.9
percent of GDP in 1990, from 9.5 percent in 1988). However, to avoid jeopardizing medium-term
macroeconomic objectives, special efforts have been made in the 1991 fiscal year, under a Fund
monitored Financial Program, to arrest the decline in the budgetary position and to achieve sustainable
improvements in public finances. Ibis austerity program included wide-ranging measures to improve
revenues and to achieve drastic cuts in expenditures - particularly through civil service reduction and
reduction of transfers and subsidies. In the first half of the year, the Govment made concerted efforts
to follow this program and indeed, formally met all targets, mainly as a result of exceptional receipts and
unsatainable cuts in operations and maintenance expenditures. In addition, some of the revemne
measures have since had to be rescinded in the face of stiff political opposition and the budgetary situation
continues to be weak. Summary data on key economic indicators are in Table 2.
Table 2. Solected Economic Indicalots. 1985-90
1985         1288         1W
GDP at coant 1987 pices                    3.9           5.2         -1.7           4.4
(DP deflator                               9.2           2.0          2.0           6.3
Extenal Sector f p.a.)
Export volum, FOB                         -14.3          6.9           1.4          1.5
Impost volume, CIF                         2.7          -2.1         -2.1           0.5
Teams of Tde (US$ erms)                   -0.2          -3.4          1.3           0.1
Oer      Idicators f% of GDP)
Budget deficit (FY ending June 30)1If     -4.6          -2.6         -4.0          -4.7
Cwarent amu  bance 1/                    -17.1          -9.5         -9.0          -7.9
Grs domes_c ivestment (real terms)        13.5          15.6          16.1          15.0
Grss domestic ssvfgs (real term)           6.1          10.5          11.8          11.0
E11in Dd* tLT+MTh+$n
Total debt di_brsed and outstning
(USS million)                            2559.3        3579.9       4139.6        4089.0
Totl debt sevice paid (USS million) t     189.9        389.5         376.3         444.1
Expors of goods and services (US$ million)  809.9      1293.8        1300.3        1411.6
Ddet service pid/exports of goods and
services (%)                              23.4          30.1          28.9          31.5
1/ ExcdWing grant
2/ After debt relief. Data for 1990 include estimated debt relief of $181.5 million.



-6 -
16.         IMe Broadnr         There are three outstanding characteristics of Senegal - accidets
of histy and geography - which have shaped (and will continue to shape) economic decision-mauking
and developent prospects. The first is the gegraphy and climate: as a general rle, most periods of
relativdy high economic ga'owth in Senegal (most recently in 1981 and 1985-1988) have been consequent
upon years of satisfactory rainfall both In terms of the total amount and its distribudon over time.
Although agiculture accounts for only about 20% of GDP, there is a direct correlation between high
agriculural output and increased value-added in industry (because of the importance of the milling sector)
and in transportation services. A second factor is the existence of an urban c1e. Not only is the rate
of urbanization unusually high; urbanization has a long history and, in the colonial empire, Dakar was
the capital of a tedrory with a total population about 6 or 7 dmes that of Senegal alone. The srong
tradition of trade unionism; the over-dimensioned infrastructure; the large and intriwive civil service, are
all, in thir different ways, reflections of this heritage of a strongly-rooted urban culture. While these
factors have been impediments on economic growth and efficiency, the urban tradition has a positive side:
Senega is one of the few sub-Saharan African countries without a mining industry where thr have been
several generations of industrW workis. There is thus the human capital required as a basis for
deveoping a viable export-orieed manufactring industry. Senegal's tradition of pluralium is the final
charactertc worth noting. Senegal has had a remarkable history of successfl cohabitaion of people
Of diffrent religions, cultnres, political beliefs and race. An open political system is not the only (or
even the best realized) manifestation of this. A far more important consequence of this tradition is that
it maWkes change of any kind subject to a consensus which, in the area of strong economic adjustment,
has proven elusive so far.
ag    Pspc and Econonic Oulok
17.          In the mediumLm, even assuming reasonably favorable developments in climate and
terms of trade, the Senegalese economy can be expected to grow only marginally faster than the
poputation. The physical consuranh to development are not amenable to change in a medium-term
perspective: improved soil and water resources management can affect agricultural production only
gradually; mineral and fish resources are currently exploited at near-optimum rates; and posive resut
from implementig the recently-articulated population policy will not have a marked effect except in the
longer tem.
18.          Economic projections of the most likely development scenario - involving normal
weather, more efficient investment and faster than usual growth of non-traditionat exports as a result of
policy refoms under implementation and further debt relief - show modest GDP growth of about 3.8
percent per annm In the 1990s. If, contrary to the assumptions underlying these projections, the
implementation of the reform agenda slows down or stagnates and if, as a consequence, exteral financing
from donors were to drop to half (or less) of current levels, GDP growth would be no higherthan about
2.3 percent per annum (implying failing income per capita) even with favorable rainfall and commodity
prices.
19.          In the lonw trcm  Senegal's development potential will depend on five fators: (a) an
improved famework for hite onal trade and continuing prosperity In OECD countries; (b) a much
improved domesdc business environment conducive to private investment, including foreiga invesment
(c) a productive, sklcled labor force; (d) more rapid depreciation of the real effective exhange rate, and
(e) an eady reversal of population growth trends. If these conditions can be met, Senegal could take
advantage of its location and climate to develop exports of light manfactue and high-vued ago-
iustri products and services.



-7 -
20.          The achievement of the growth targets in para. 17 is predicated on favorable supply
responses in agriculture and industry and on the capacity of the economy to genea   resources for
rehabilitation and new investment. For the major export crops, as well as for rainfed food crops,
technical, institutional, and environmental factors still represent important obstacles. Prwspects for
expanding fishing are limited. Finally, the expansion of the industrial sector will rely to a large extent
on the trevival of private sector activlty and on the response by domestic and foreign investors to
industri incentives and to reduced costs of factors of production.
21.          Continued investments in human resources development, in particular in education and
health, would be required to create the productive labor force essential to long-term growth. Reform in
both setors should improve the quality of and access to basic services by ensuring sufficient resource
mobilization while containing costs through improved efficiency in service delivery and resource
alocation. Finally, sustaining any improvemens in real per capita income wil hinge on the ability of
the Government to deal effectively with the difficult problem of rapid population growth. The Human
Resources Development Project presented in this memorandum represents a first major thrust in
Govenments effort to transform the newly-adopted population policy into concrete action.
Centra Deve10pent I%=ue
22.          E      a _,  Although some of the factors identified as conditioning long-term
development (para 18) indicated above are not (wholly) within Government's control (developments in
intaional trade and OECD countries' economies, the exchange rate) the realization of the coutry's
(admitedly limited) development prospects poses a major challenge for the conduct of economic policy.
First and foremost, the recent cycle of unsustained stabilization will need to be broken in order to pave
the way for structural measures to last long enough to have a chance of being tnlated into an effective
supply respose. This would mean the achievement of permanent and significant reductions in public
sector spending and improving the quality of such expenditures. At present, the fiscal burden on the
modem sector is inhibiting expansion of economic activity, and the prospects for appreciable increase
in revenue to meet needed infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance programs are limited essentally
to incrased exteral grants. The effort therefore has to be focused on cuttng nonessential and ineffective
Govermnent services including reducing subsidies to public enterprises; increasing user chages where
there is room; and improving the efficiency of resource use in the public and parapublic sectors. Tax
adminisaion also needs to be improved significantly. To the extent that such efforts are successful,
public savings will increase and resources can be shifted into the production of tradeables with a
beneficial effect on the real effective exchange rate.
23.                 .y ranework Concomltantly, to afford the private sector the feasibility to use
these freed resources in an optimal manner, efforts to dg=}ate an liheraize economic activity should
be sustained. In this respect, existng policies that inhibit labor market flexibility - with regard to both
the mobility of labor and the flexibility of wages - need to be changed. In addition to reforming labor
market regulations, the Government needs to simplify the procedures necsary to enforce compliance
with legal business agreements and to acquire and dispose of assets, especially land.
24.          Pinancial SectorP        . Finally, the reform of the financial sector policies initiated
recendy with IMA and other donor support needs to be broadened and deepened. There is a need to
mobilize domestic savings and to ensure efficient intermediation as a necessary complement to the
developmnt of private sector investment and production. Within the existing rules of the Monetary
Union, the Senegalese Government can adopt and implement policies that will make the banking sector
more reponsive. In addition to restructuring the balance sheets of the publicly-owned banks and



- 8 -
reducing its ownership shares in banks, the Government can also curb the credit demands of a large
parpublic sector and ensure that its fiscal rules do not distort interest rates unduly.
25.          Huiman. BRWi        Developmen. For the longertem, the most serious challenge is to
develop a productive, entrepreneurial human capital base with the limited financial resources available.
In education, Government has initiated measures to improve efficiency in primary education, achieving
Important cost savings; it must continue, however, to seek additional resources in order to raise
enoLlment ratios from their present low levels and to keep up with the growing demand. In contrast,
measures to reduce excess spending and refocus priorities in higher education -including reducing student
subsidies and fellowships and stressing quality over quantity in enrollment - have not been taken because
of their politcal sensidvity.  Government's inability to undertake these reforms is the principal
outstanding issue in the education sector.
26.          Mating Natural Reso      . Sound management of the natural resources base also
presents a critical long-term challenge to policy-making. Population growth and its distribution between
urban and rural areas (and within rural areas between the Groundnut Basin with its exhausted soils and
the potealy more productive Fleuve and Casanance areas) will have an impact on the environment -
soil degradation icluding salinity), loss of forest cover to firewood demand, urban water and waste
disposal. There is an urgent need for the Government to plan its infrastructure development program in
a way tat supports desirable patterns of population migration. Agricultural research should be sustained
so tat fuming methods less destructive of the environment can be developed and transmitted successflly
to peasants. The pricing of household fuels is affected by the present tax system on petroleum and
household gas, which in turn affects the demand for fuelwood. These subtle and delicate linkages
between economic activities (principally crop and livestock production), population and the environment
suggest that the least risky strategy for the management of natural resources will need to involve I"
communites who are most direcdy affected. This will in turn require clarification of land-tenure systems
so  at long-term investments by farmers can be made more secure. Success in reversing envronment
pauperizaton will depend critically on Government's ability and willingness to provide village
communities with the lmowledge and legal authority to participate fully in natural resource management.
27.          E%uaition. Above all, Government must continue to buld up its efforts to contain
populaon growth by expanding family planning services and transforming the social and economic
environment to favor rapid fertility decline (improving materna ad child health, epanding female
education, promodng the status of women, increasing awareness among youth, reversing pro-natalist
fiscal policies).  In this area, performance assessment in the short term has to be based not on
measurements of actual reductions in population growth rates but on the visible political support given
to the popuadon program and on the effectiveness of service delivery modes.
County Assistance &taMe
Past B    roup Jisita
28.          As of December 31, 1990, the Bank Group had approved 96 operations in Senegal for
a total amount outing (mcluding undisbursed) of about US$1,032 million, consisting of 64 IDA
credits (imcluding three Special Fund credits) and 20 Bank loans, together with two SFA and nine IFC
operatioS. To date, 47 credits and the 20 loans have been fully disbursed. Of the 17 operations sll
under disemn, two (SAL IV and the Banking/Financial SECAL) are adjustment operations. The
rest are divided between agriculture (5), infrastructure (4), human resources development (2), industry,
telecommunications and energy (1 each) and a Technical Assistance Project.



-9-
County Strategy and iories
29.          Bank strategy has two broad and interrelated objectives. The first objective is to mist
the Government in the short to medium-term in rectifying structr  Imbalances in the economy by
Improving the incentive environment and the efficiency of eosnomic management. The vehicles to
support this objective have been adjustment lending buttressed by appropriate technical assistac
operations. The second objective, which is to promote a sustainable level of long-term growth and
development, has been supported by sector-based rehabilitation/investmentprojects, within an appropdie
framework of sectoral policy reforms. Both adjustment and investment operations have had a direct
Impact on poverty alleviation since they have focussed on policies and sectors that affect the broad mass
of the poorer, rural population - examples include agricultural price decontmols (SAL Ell); tariff reflbos
which shifted the terms of trade in favor of the rural sector; and primary education.
Proposed Lending Progam
30.           For the immediate future, Bank strategy for Senegal will remain pointed essentialy in
the same direction of adjustment and policy reform, but with a somewhat modified emphasis. The
country's meager resource base and its consequent growth prospects are a cause of incremasing cone,
both for the Govermnent and for its partners in the donor community. With this in mind, in coming
years, sector-based adjustment operations will be focussed specifically on reducing wasts, improving the
efficiency in the use of existing assets and promoting an incentive framework that harnesses such limited
potential as exists.
31.          Given the stagnation and, in some regions of the country, the dedine in living stwWards
over the past decade, it is unrealistic to expect that the required increase In domestic savings can be
mobilized rapidly for rMAabilitation and new investment and, particularly, for the efficien operation and
maintenance of existing assets and infrastructure. Thus, additional sources of concessional assistance wi
be necessary to underpin the adjustment efforts through the medium-term. If the country can demonstre
a sustained commitment to adjustment, a commensurate program of financial support for macro and
setoral adjustment operations should remain the major thrust of our country assistance strategy for
Senegal in the coming years.
32.          As Aown in Table 3, the lending and reserve program for Senegal cumatly under
consideration for the period FY91-95 totals some US$516 million for thirteen operaions. Depending on
progress in macro and sectoral policy dialogue, adjustment operations would absorb just under 50 percent
of this program, including sector adjustment operations in transport, agriculture, and human resources
development, private sector development, and a public sector resources management operation. Sector
operations would include rehabilitation/investment components in all cases, but would also address the
key policy constraints to sectoral growth.



- 10-
Table 3: Composition of IDA Commitments. FYS6"9S
EX &2                        9ss
US mill.   er- emut         Smil       e
AgnovltWe                         85.3         22.7         110.2         21.3
Induoafy and energy               S3.0         14.1          20.0          3.9
Infiasuctwe                       63.7         16.9          83.0         16.1
Human resources                   32.0          8.5         S.3           9.8
Adjustment lending (SALsISECAL)  125.0        33.3         252.1         48.9
Technical assistanoe              12            CS           JIL-          Q0.
TOTAL COMMiTMENTS          376.0        100.0        515.6         100.0                   *
33.          This new emphasis on sector operations, while reflecting an assment that a minimm
albeit stll fragile, macro-economic enviromnent has been established, also reflects a growing aware
that realization of the economy's growth potential demands a more focussed approach to sectora policy
reforms and investment requirements. Thus, the assistance would move from a phase of suppotig an
improved overall policy environment to one which would address supply response measures more directy
at the sectoral level and, with a clearer link to directly productive investments, would promote growth
more effectively.
34.          In azicithure, a sector adjusment operation is being prepared based on the
miplementation experience of the agriculture component of SAL m, which highlighted the urgency of
addressing outstanding sector policy constraints. The operation would focus on four major areas:
privaizon of groundnut marketing and processing; an appropriate, market-based protection regime for
locally produced cereals and reduction of the state's role in marketing and prices; comleting the
liberalization of agricultural credit; and initiating land tenure reforms. In order to increase the likelihood
that such refrms will be long-lasting, our operation envisages significant cofinancing from all key donors
who thereftre have to agree on the content of the reform package. Other operations planned for the
agricuture sector include an krigation Sector Operation aimed at improving conditions for private sector
ownership of irrgaton infrastucture and a Natura Resources Management Project, which would focus
on institional and legal reforms to enhance local management of forests.
35.          The country's infiatructur network is seriously dilapidated due to insufficient allocation
of funds for regular maintenance. Our dialogue on key sectoral issues has resulted in a Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investment Operation which has been appraised. The hybrid form of the project resulted
from the need to promote important policy reforms throughout the different transport subsectors. The
major sectoral policy issues to be addressed under this operation include: O strengthening sectoral
investment planning and project selection criteria, including a sector-wide shift away from new
construction toward urgendy required maintenance; Cii) a threefold increase in the allocation of revenues
to road maintenance financing (Road Fund); (iii) shifting reliance for the major part (75 percent) of road
maintenance from force account to execution by private contractors, and improving the administion's
mannan  planning, programming and supervision capacity; (iv) improving the management structure
and autonomy of some of the key parastatals in the sector, e.g. railway, port, and airline; (v) manpower
planming and management; and (vi) improved efficiency in all subsectors. A following operation is
planned for FY94, as is an Urban Development Project and an Energy Project (11).



- 11 -
36.          Previous interventions in iucat1Dnhave been directed toward strength indag ptrimy
education, especially in nura areas, restructuring educational expenditures toward the primary levd, and
at technical and vocational training to support the requirements of the producdve sectors. In heal* the
emphasis has been on strengthening the delivery of primary care in rural areas, on developing health, nd
nutrition education, and on developing a coherent approach to the provision of low-cost essential drugs.
In addition, under SAL m, the Government formulated a national nonunat  policy staement which bas
since been translated into an operational Population Action and Investment Pogram.
37.          However, additional efforts are required to develop the social sectors during this period
of economic adjustment and to improve the Internal and external efficiency of the resources allocated to
this sector. The project prested in this memorandum addresses these issues for the health and
popuation sectors. A second operation currently under preparation, would cover education and traing.
Its aim would be to attain a better balance in priorities among the different segments of the education
sector, rationalizing and reducing costs in vocational and higher educadon while keeping the priority on
primary education. The project would thus be a hybrid sectoral adjustment operation, with investmet
going nto primary education and with a policy push on vocational and higher education.
38.          A Private Sector Development Project (FY93) would aim at consolidating Iov
in the regulatory and financial environment achieved so far, as well as in helping to establish an
appropriate framework for efficient support services for private sector business promotion.
Prmms of Si wial Em aIs
39.          Concern with Women in             the           and Food S      is iegratd
into our assistance program in Senegal. The needs of women (and children) are addressed in a significant
fashion in the Human Resources Project discussed in the rest of this Memorandum, as well as in the
Small Rural Operations (FY89) project. A WID strategy paper has recendly been inidated and should
help to make our assistance strategy in this area more effective. The envomental effects of poor
naturl resource management practices are recognized as a major potentia constraint In long-term
development in Senegal. The Natral Resources Management Project planned for FY95 will be the
cumination of a 3-year pilot operation which is now underway and includes trials of sustanble resource
management systems for different ecological zones as well as the establishment of and assistance to a
national body responsible for coordinating environmental programs.  In addition, a Country
Environmental Strategy Paper currendy under preparation should help us better address the fill range of
inter-relationships between population, agriculture, natural resource management and urbantion. In
the agriculture sector, the main thrust of our strategy has been to reduce food insecurity by improving
incentives for local production and strengthening delivery of support services (extension and reseach)
to the food production sector.
Intemational Finance Corporation
40.          Past domestic policies have produced a domestic private sector which is still small and
which is oriented towards trade-related domestic private sector which is still small and which is oriented
towards trade-related domestic activities. Nevertheless, opportunities for IFC-finded operations have
been identified in resource-based, export-oriented activities where private local and foreign investments
can be allocated - fishing, mining and tourism. Further, with the establishment of the African Enteprse
Fund, IFC has developed an ability to reach smaller business; this could increase its Senegalese portfolio
in due course.



- 12 -
Ecogomic and Sector Work
41.          Our planned ESW is designed to provide an intellectual foundation for our country
strategy. Consequently, the focus is on (a) improving our knowledge of the macro-ecnomic frmework;
(b) human resources development (health, education and population) and private sector development In
pursuit of ways to help Government come to grips with the fiscal situation, a Public Expenditure Revew
has been initiated. Sector work to promote private sector development include studies of the infuom
fiancial sector, and of privatlzation strategies. In the .agriculture sector, studies are planned on small
rural organizations and agricultural diversification.
Cqordinaon with the JMq. other Donors and NGOs
42.          Senegal's adjustment program has been supported by a three-year (1989-91) Enhanced
Strucua  Adjustment Facility of the IMF. The first and second year programs were sucesslly
implemented and a Fund mission jointly with Bank staff has visited Senegal in February 1991 to assess
the third-year program. The program has been developed in full consultation with Bank staff and
complements the DA-supported SAL m and SAL IV. In recent years, with the pursuit of adjustment
policies, both the level of external assistance to Senegal and the number of donors have increased
markedly, with the result of aid coordination assuming vastly increased significance. Two Consultative
Group Meetings have been held, the most recent in April 1987. These have both proven very usefl for
reviewing and analyzing Senegal's economic performance, adjustment progress, and public investment
program, and for reaching broad consensus on the levels and modalities of exteri assistance. A thd
consultative goup meeting is now expected to be held within the next 12 months. In late 1987, in the
context of SAL m, procedures were finalized for the regular preparation of a comprehensive three-year
roiling public investment program. Its submission to the donor community has provided a very useful
vehicle for ensuring that development priorities are stated explicitly and that scarce investment resources
will be channelled exclusively into high priority programs and projects. More recently, a large number
of donors have expressed the intention to provide very significant levels of program aid to Senegal in the
conte  of the Special Program of Assistance for low income debt-distressed countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa. This initiative will call for especially close donor coordination in mobilizing sufficient fiuds in
support of the various sector operations and in ensuing harmonization of financing modalities and
coherence in the conditionality. There are a large number of NGOs operating in Senega in taclding
important social issues such as employment (particularly in the context of the Bank supported Urban
Employment Project) and basic needs fulfillment. Finally, the Resident Representative in Dakar convenes
reguar bimonthly meetings of donor representatives aimed at exchanging information and disssing
coordination issues. During FY90 and FY91 donor meetings have been held in the following sectors:
transport, water supply, and energy.
II.    The Human Resources Development Project
43.          BackgmrWx. Senegal's population totalled 6.9 million according to the 1988 census, and
is estimated to be growing at 3.2% p.a. (up from 2.4% prior to 1975). Prospects are bleak for a
significant decrease in this rate by the year 2000 unless a significant reduction in fertility takes place.
Despite improvements in mortality throughout the '50s and 60's in Senegal, mortality rates remain high
at 16 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth is 48 years. Infant and child mortality predominate (86 and
113 per thousand, respectively, in 1986), with diarrhea, respiratory disease and malaria as the leading
causes of death and illness. Among adults, maternal mortality is a leading cause of death for women of
reproductive age; and the high fertility rate is recognized as a major factor affecting mater  and child
health. Malmurition, cardiovascular disease, trauma and sexually transmitted diseases (STD) are also
important health problems.



- 13-
44.         In April 1988, Senegal became the first Sahelian country to adopt a comprehensive
Population Policy Statement calling explicitly for reduced fertility and setting out a multi-sector strategy
to attain this objective. Since adopting the policy, Government has defined a US$85 million Priority
Action and Investment Program (PAIP) designed to give major impetus to ongoing population and family
planning activities. Among the key elements of the PAIP Is the definition of a National Family Planning
Program that sets an objective of attaining a 22% contraceptive prevalence rate by 2000 (CPR was 2.6%
in 1986) and defines a coherent framework for all family planning (FP) activides in the country. Not
limited to family planning activities, the PAIP includes a cross-sectoral range of actions that would help
transform the social and economic environment to favor more rapid fertility decline, key elements of
which are: Improved maternal and child health, promotion of women's status, increasing Involvement
of yout, a legal and regulatory environment favoring fertility reduction, and information and education
on population and family planning. The multi-sectoral nature of the PAIP signifies an important evolution
in official attiudes towards population-related actions, from a narrow concern for the effects of high
fertility on the health of mothers and children, to wider concerns for family welfare and natonal
development objectives. Adoption of the program and actions taken so far by the Government to initiate
implementation of the policy (public information campaigns have been stepped up, family planning efforts
intensified) make Senegal one of the more advanced Sahellan countries in terms of its outlook on
population issues.
45.          To reduce morbidity and mortality, particularly of women and children, Government will
address the principal constraints to improving basic health care services by: (a) improving resource
mobilization, stressing both the role of clients - through a more active involvement of community health
orizations (CHOs), as well as of Government - through increased resource allocation and greater
decentalization; and (b) reducing unit costs through improved efficiency and a more rational organization
of the basic care system. Its strategy, spelled out in a National Health Policy adopted in June 1989,
involves: (a) establishing health districts as the basic operating unit for health service delivery and
ensurg improved efficiency by establishing clear and realistic norms of coverage, staffing, financing
and task definition for the health district; and (b) promoting the use and availability of low-cost essential
drugs. To Improve caces for success of its policy and accompanying strategy, the MOHSA has, over
the last two years, taken extraordinary efforts at consensus-building and 'intenization' both wihin
Government and among donors, and is now prepared to invest in a reform program that it considers to
be effective, coherent and feasible.
46.            nale for IDA Involvement. IDA's involvement in the human resources sectors has
grown over the last few years, particularly with the increasing focus on human resources as a key asset
in development in the Sabel and on improved basic services (education and health) as essential to the anti-
poverty effbrt. In population, IDA's position as Government's lead partner in the macroeconomic
dialogue has provided the opportunity to maintain needed focus on the population question and its
relevance to the county's total development effort. This dWogue reached a watershed point with the
declaration of the national population policy under the third SAL. Satisfactory implementation of this
policy will require contnued support, in collaboration with concerned donors, to help Goverment defie
and mobilize the means to implement the Population Action Program. In health, preparation activities
of the present project have provided a vehicle to advance reflection within the MOHSA and dialogue
between MOHSA and the donor community on much needed reform. Both the donor community and
concered government agencies are looking to the Bank to maintain this position of leadership and ensure
that the momentum of reform continues and that sufficient resources are mobilized widdn and outside the
country.
47.          Fject Objecdves. The project will support Government efforts to: () control fertlity
and reduce the rate of population growth, through the implementation of a National Population Program;



- 14-
and Qi) restructure the health sector to enable it to provide basic health services of improved quality and
wider accessibility, through the implementation of its National Health Policy. Furthermore, while the
project would be an investment operation, it will involve the adoption and implementation of key policy
measures in population and health including: (i) liberalization of regulations on contraceptive distribution
and use; (ii) measures In support of the district health system, including adoption of orgaiztional norms
for the district, ensuring sufficient budgetary allocations, personnel redeployment, and adoption of
organizational and procedural guidelines for community health organizations; and (iii) measures to
promote the availability and use of essential drugs. The project provides assistace for the first three
years of a five-year Human Resources Development Program which has been fully appraised by IDA.
48.          todS Dscripfi. To achieve the above objectives, the project would finance
investments orgaied in two parts: population and health. For    iaOn, the project would:
(i) strengthen the National Fmily Planning Program through (a) expansion of FP services in the
public health systm, (b) extension of PP services through private sector channels, and (c) promotion of
PP through infrmation, education and communication; (ii) promote the status of women through
(a) fciona literacy training, (b) extension of the network of 'cases-foyee (centers for local women's
group activities), and (c) provision of labor-saving equipment for household work; and (d) insutonal
stengthening of the Women's Ministry; (iii) sensitize youth on family welfare Issues dtrgh Family
Life Education programs; and (iV) strenthen institutional capacity to promote the national population
program through (a) population research and information dissemination; and (b) strengthening capacity
for monioring and evaluation. For hetlh, the project would: (i) develop the district health system
through (a) devdopment of traning prograns for health district personnel, (b) development of fiancial
mnemen systems for districts, (c) promotion of community health organizations, ad (d) assistance
for imple ton of district development plans in the regions of Dakar, Thibs and Diourbel;
sii) promote the use and avaiuabilty of essential drugs through (a) reform of the National Phamacy,
(b) supply of a init  stock of drugs for health districts, (c) information campaigns for prescribers and
the public, and (d) development of a long-term strategy for the pharmaceutical sector; and (iii) strengthe
insdtuional capity In the health sector, with focus on managing manpower development, and
budgeting and fiacial plannng.
49.          Total project cost Is ested at US$37.9 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with
a foreign exchange component of US$26.4 million (70%). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan
are given in SchIule A. Amounts and methods of procurement, and the disbursement schedule ar
shown in Schedul. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
Operations in Senegal are shown in  dules C.., respectively, followed by a map of the country.
The Staff Apprais  Report, No. 9180-SE dated March 12, 1991, is also attached. Governm  is
actively seeking cofinancing to complete the US$52.8 million estimated cost of the laer five-year
program.
50.          A.e Actions During negotiations, Government gave murnces on: (a) signing of
an agreement between the Component Support Unit (CSU) and Ministry of Interior (MOI) and a baking
institution on withdawal of funds by women's groups; (b) implementation of the redeloyment and
recruitment measures for health personnel defined in the FY91-96 plan; (c) anmal incrses in the
percentage share of the Government's reremnt budget allocated to MOHSA for the health sector, (d)
revising the presentational form of MOHSA's budget; (e) amual incrases in drugs and materal
allocatons; (M submission of recurrent and investment budgets for health for review by IDA; (g)
quarterly replenishment of the PNA bank account through transfers from the annul budgetary allocation
for drgs; (h) mainnance of PNA stocks in conformity with the lists of essental drugs; O) allocaton
of in  asocs of drugs only to those HCs and HPs that met eligibility cril; Q) by June 30, 1993,
completng and discussng with IDA studies on staffing norms for regional hospitals and spcazed



- 1S -
structures of MOHSA; and (k) organizing annual project implementation reviews and a mid-term project
eauation. The following are conditions of credit effectiveness: (a) adoption of the National FP
Program and of the decree that would include PP as part of the basic MCH package; (b) implementation
of the redeployment and recruitment emergency plan for PY90-91; (b) issuance of regulations governing
the organization and management of CHOs; (d) payment of an initial amount of CFAF 350 million into
a PNA bank account; and (e) appropriate staffing of the PCU and CSUs.
51.          Benefts. 'Me g=lation cmpent would have broad benefits in terms of increased
awareness of population issues and increased receptivity to family planning, especially among women in
nual ares and youth in semi-urban areas. By the end of the project period, family planning services
would be extended to over 350 health posts in the country (from an insignificant number at present), and
over 150 practitioners and pharmacists in the private sector would be able to offer services and
Inomation. Government's ability to coordinate, implement and evaluate population-related action
*          programs would be strergthened. As a result of the above package of services, the cotceptve
prevalence rate should rise from its current estimated level of 3.4% to around 14% by 1995, and the
momentum would have been set for an increase to around 22% by 2000, assuming the neceary level
of effrt is maintned. Restructuring measures in the health sector would help reduce unit costs of basic
health care, making possible a large improvement in quality and coverage with relatively minor increases
In resource use.  eased mobilization of private resources to cover the cost of health services would
impwve the long-term sustnability of gains in quality and coverage and increase accountability wih
the health service system. The health oMment would benefit most of the population through improved
avalability of drugs and quality of services, which would increase utilization rates in around half of
exsting facilities by as much as three times current levels. In addition, over 3 million people in three
regions In the project's zone of concentration would gain improved access to basic services through a
30% increase in the number of health posts in these regions. Although the project makes no direct
nvesb en at the hospital level, hospitals will be relieved of present excessive demand for basic care as
a result of improved primary- and secondary-level services and hence be better able to provide specialized
services.
52.          Eiakb. The main risks are: (a) the complex nature of the project and consequent potenti
imple entation difficulties; (b) the many different changes required in policy orientation of Government
at e macro-level, and in the behavior of service providers (district health officers, health post nurses,
monitrices") at the field level, and the possibility that these changes may not occur at the deired pace;
and (c) heavy dependence on local health comnmittees for resource mobilization at the health post level,
and the difficulty of ensuing their efficient operation. To minimize implementation risk, close aon
has been given during preparation to working out implementation arrangements and inter-miisteri
working relationships; the project will, however, require more than average supervision. Extensive
policy discussions during preparation within Government and between Government and IDA (and
including other donors) improve the chances of continued Government commitment tD its newly adopted
policies. To minimize risks stmming from difficulties in realizing essential changes in the behavior and
attitudes of personnel responsible for carying out project activities, close attention has been given to
superiion and traning aspects of all components. SpecW effrts to improve CHO organization and
mnagement (including revision of their intemal regulations and training for DMOs and HPNs on
msporting the development of CHOs) and information campaigns to clarify the role of CHOs to the
general public would improve their chances of success.



- 16 -
53.          Re        _. I am satsfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreemet of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credi.
Barber B. Conable
Presidet
Washigton, D.C.
March 12, 1991
AUachmen



- 17 -
Pag 1 of 1
RE3PUlBLIC OF SENBOAL
HUMAN R}3SOUICSRU&M MDU
Po  ati. and Healt
(US$ mio) A/
1. Strengthenng the National Family Planning Progam                  0.6   2.6   3.2
2. Promoting the Status of Women                                     2.2   2.5   4.6
3. Reahing Young Men and Wome                                        0.3   1.3   1.7
4. Institional Strengthening for Promoting the Natioval
puladion Program                                                  0.1   0.2   0.3
S. Devloping the Distict Health System                               5.4   8.1   13.5
6. Pmoting Essentil Drugs                                            0.2   3.6   3.7
7. Iituional Strengthening in the Health Sector                      0.1   0.3   0.4
8. Project Coordination and Management                               0.5   2.6   3.1
9. Refinancing of PPF and SPPF                                       0.3   0.5   0.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                              9.7   21.6  31.3
Physical Confingencies                                        0.7   1.8   2.5
Price Contingencies                                           1.1   3.0   4.1
TOTAL ROECr COMSI S                                                 VA
pinsncing Plan:
IDA                        35.0
Government 
TOTAL                      37.9
11 Totas may not add up due to rounding.
hi Net of taxes and duties.



- 18 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
HUMAN RBOURCM DELOPMEM
ultidol aud Healt
em etent Meho n3d Disbutsements
Amonts and Meffiods of h
(US$  miinoludinS oontsganc)
N      Cateorv of _rnndk  Ls                 Q         f                     W      T
1.     'ivil Word                                     10.3    2.7     -       -      13.0
(8.8)   (2.3)    -     -      (11.1)
2.     Vdiles, equipment and mataial                   6.0    2.2             -       8.2
(6.0)   (2.2)          -      (8.2)
3.     FuP   e                                                 0.9            ,       0.
(0.9)    -      -      (09)
4.     Drus                                            2.8     -      0.5     -       33
(2.8)    -    (0.5)    -      (3.3)
5.     SPecals Servoices                               -       -     5.1      -      5.1
=      _    (5.1)     -      (5.1)
6.     Trining                                         -       -     2.6      -       2.6
a(26)    -      (26)
7.     Ino_mt Operain Costs                            -       -     4.0      -      4.0
_      -    (3-0)    -       (3.0)
S.     Refinancing of PPF and SPPP                     -       -      -      0.8     0.8
_             -      (0.8)   (0.8)
TOTAL COSM                                    19.1    5.8   12.2    0.8    37.9
Total Fnanced by IDA                          17.6    5.4   11.2    0.8    35.0
NOTE: Figures in pa_s a  the respwdve amount finanoed by the IDA credit.



- 19 -
Schdl B
Page 2 of 2
1"W  and ftm
(US$ millon)
Proposed IDA  % of Exp _end
Cateor of Expediture                           Allofi         Pi_ne by MlA
1.    Civil Works                                9.4           85%
2.    Vehicles, Equipment and Mateias            7.0          100%
3.    F ture                                     0.8          100%
4.    Drugs                                      2.8          100%
5.    Speciist Services                          4.4          100%
6.    Trainng                                    2.2          100%
7.    Inremental Operating Costs                 2.6           75%
8.    Refinancing of PPF and SPPP                0.8          100%
9.    Unalocated                                              100%
TOTAL                                     35.0
Estimated  A Disbursemnts
-US$ mili-in
FY             22           23            94           25
Annua         8.5          12.6         11.6          2.3
Cumuladve    8.5          21.1          32.7         35.0



- 20 -
ScheduleC
Page 1 of I
HULJQEUHM   11 RQJE
(a)    Time taken to prepare                                  18 montis
0b)    Prepared by                                           Govrntmen with I]DA
assistance
(c)    First IDA mission                                     Febay 1989
(d)    Appraisdepartre                                       June 1990
(e)    Negotatons                                            Febuay 1991
M)    Planned date of effectiveness                          Octb  1991
(g)    List of relevant PCRs and PPARs                       N.A.



- 21 -
Sohuedu D
REPUBLIC OF SffN8QgAL                               Palp 1 of2
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJlCI
(as of 7ebnzary 26, 1991)
Amount in USS milon
Loan or  Pic                                                                   Ud             Closng
craft ug,                                              BDk   MA ged
45 Crdis closed                                                472.13
1310-N         1983            Rund Health                     15.00            2.61          1231/91 (R)
1406-S         1984            Easteen SendalRurl              16.10             .54           6/30/91 (R)
1459-N         1984            Daka Port m                      2.55            .45            6130/93
1554-S         1985            Water Supply II                 24.00             .62           6/30191
1710           1986            Ergy Secto Rehab.               20.00            4.70           613091
1714-SEN       1986            Telecom nI                      17.69           12.65           6/30/93
173SSEN       1987            Prima  Educ. Dev.               12.00            6.56           6/30195
1855-SEN       1988             rgon IV                        33.60           20.81           6/30/94
186ES N        1988            Industry Setor                  33.00           31.79           6/30198
1884-SEN       1988            Municipal Housing Dev.          46.00           36.37           3/31195
1910-SEN       1988            TA DevL Mana_miet               17.00           12.58           6/30194
1992-SEN       1989            Smball Rual Oper. I             16.10           11.96           6/m098
207-SE1N       1990            public Works & Ebploy.          20.00           18.S4           10131/92
2077-SEN(S)    1990            -ba ImngaFinuaing SE            45.00           20.S7           6/3191
2O90-SEM(S)    1990            SAL lV                          80.00           S3.81           4130092
2107-SEN        1990           Agdb. Researcho                  18.50          20.14           12131t95
2108-SEN       1990            Agpio. Serices                   17.10          15.78           12/31/94
20902-SE(S)   1991             SAL IV                           7.10            7.34          04/30/92
TOTAL nwumber credts = 18                                      440.84          277.82
20 Ltoas closed                                        129.33
TOTAL number loans - 0
TOTAL *                                129.33  912.97
of which repaid                A@29  -JSZZ
TOTAL hedd by Dank & IDA                62.54  894.70
Amount sold                    3.36
of which  pad          3.36
TOTAL undsburs t7.9
NOTElS
* Not yet effectve
* Notyet si;ned
*  Totd approved, repayments, ouadig balam npse t both active ad inac   loa  and crds.
(R) indicates  mulby revd  ebd sg date
(S) iica  SAECAL loans andcar
The net apprved an Dank repayments are historical value; all otes ar market value.
The siging, effctv and closing dates ar basod upon the Loan Department ofial dat and are ot tabu fim  th Tsk
Budget file.



- 22 -
Pap 2 of 2
HUMAN R13SO-URCIBS D]rMWPMEN PROWI=
.PODUto an H2ft1
Summary of IPC Illve
(a of auy 31S, 1991)
Pisoallpoo                                                        USS mib
XW Obl                             Buo                                                    k
1967   Sooi6 Indus*tie& d4ngBais      Pert     Pblt           2.45            1.01            3.46
do 8d6gal (SIE)
1972   MUD SnEa                       Vegtable Bxpot                          0.84            0.84
1974   SO}IDT                         Delopnt Finaoc Co.   -                  0.34            0.34
1980   Dnudo d IW    du Sngal         Money & Capita Maet   -                 0.46            0.46
1980   Socl*E H6Wibm do Barachoi      Tourim                  3.00                            3.00
I982     dushI Chimiques do SEnal    PeHer Plnt               25.00            -             25.00
1984   Afican Seafood                 Fish Proesing Pimt      3.29            0.96            4.25
986   SOTIBMAI-PAPRitC                Prt Maufcurlug          3.20             -              3.20
1988   Indust  Cb hque do Sngl U   FeP wer Plt                12.00           0.1S           12.15
1989   ARICAME1R                        Fh                    3.45             -              3.45
TOTAL Gnu Comkms5239                                                          3.76           56m1m
Less caneons, terination, repayme  aW al              32.30           2.18           34.48
TOTAL Cemum u   4eld by MF C                                          1*             aL
FeA. 1;
Feb. 1991)



SENEGALa
Aopr     ~MAUFITANIA                        SENEGALI
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES
M* Dd HecMt C~or*f
-                                                                      R4~~~~~rmui I6~~~~~~~mdeoD.*~~~~~ou



