Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17097
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(Credit 2255-SN)
September 30, 1997
Human Development CGroup II
AFTH2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Franc CFA - FCFA
US$1 (1991) = 303 FCFA
US$1 (1992) = 265 FCFA      US$1 (1994) = 500 FCFA
US$1 (1993) = 297 FCFA      US$1 (1997) = 500 FCFA
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP    -         Agence d'execution des Travaux d'interet Public contre le sous-emploi
AIDS       -        Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ASBEF      -        Association Senegalaise pour le bien-etre Familial
CEDEPS   -          Centre departemental d'Education populaire et sportive
CHO        -        Community Health Organization
CONAPOP -           National Population Commission
CONGAD   -          Conseil des ONG d'Appui au Developpement
CPR        -        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CS         -        Coniite de Sante
CSU        -        Component Support Unit
DAEB       -        Direction d'Alphabetisation et de L'Education de Base
DHDP       -        District Health Development Plan
DHR        -        Division of Human Resources
DHS        -        Demographic and Health Survey
DMO        -        District Medical Officer
EU         -        European Union
FLE        -        Family Life Education
FP         -        Family Planning
GEEP       -        Groupe d'Etudes en Population
IDA        -        International Development Association
IEC        -        Information, Education and Communication
IPM        -        Institut de Prevoyance des Maladies
MCH        -        Maternal and Child Health
MFEF       -        Ministry of Women, Children and the Family
MEFP       -        Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
MASA       -        Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOI        -        Ministry of the Interior
MTS        -        Ministry of Youth and Sports
NGO        -        Non-Governmental Organization
PAIP       -        Priority Action and Investment Program
PCU        -        Project Coordination Unit
PHC        -        Primary Health Care
PHRD I    -         Human Resources Development Project 1
PNA        -        Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement
PNDS       -        National Development Plan for Health
PRA        -        Pharmacie Regionale d'Approvisionnement
PSFP       -        Projet Sante Familiale et Population (U.S.A.I.D)
RHDP       -        Regional Health Development Plan
RMO        -        Regional Medical Officer
RNI        -        Rate of Natural Increase
SANFAM   -          Sante de la Famille
SIP        -        Sector Investment Program for Health
SNEPS      -        Service National d'Education en Population et Sante
STD        -        Sexually Transmitted Disease
TA         -        Technical Assistance
UNDP       -        United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA      -        United Nations Fund for Population Activities
U.S.A.I.D.  -       U.S. Agency for International Development
WHO        -        World Health Organization
WID        -        Women in Development
FISCAL YEAR
Calendar YearVice President     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                Mahlmood A. Ayub
Technical Manager               Ok Pannenborg
Contact Staff Member            Alassane Diawara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I[PLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIJMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(Credit 2255-SN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................ii
PART 1: PRCIJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSEMENT ...............................1
A. Introduction .
B. Project Background                                 .1
C. Project Objectives and Description                        .2
D. Achievement of Project Objectives                         .3
E.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project          .4
F. Project Sustainability                              .5
G. Bank Performance                                   .7
H. Borrower Performance                                 .8
I. Assessment of Outcome                                .9
J. Future Operations                                 .9
K. Lessons Learned .10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3: Projiect Timetable .13
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project I mnpementation .14
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .15
Table 7: Studfies Included in Project .15
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................                               16
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................                          16
Table 9:   Ecomomic Costs and Benefits ................................................................... 16
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................                  17
Table 11:  Conipliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................... 20
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................  20
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................................... 21
APPENDICES
Annex I:        Mission's Aide-memoire .........................                   23
Annex II:  ]Borrower contribution to the ICR .........................             30
Annex III:  Map .........................                                          37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their officiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization,






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HUM,AN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(Credit 2255-SN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Human Resources
Development Project [ in Senegal, for which Credit 2255-SN in the amount of SDR 25.4
million (US$35.0 million equivalent) was approved on May 30, 1991 and made effective
on January 17, 1992.
The credit was closed 15 months after the original closing date. Final
disbursement took place on September 29, 1997. A balance of about SDR 1.5 million will
be cancelled.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission of
February 1997, and it iis based on material in the project file, data provided by the
Ministries of Health, Mlinistry of Economy, Finance and Plan, Ministry of Youth and
Sport, Ministry of Women, Children and Family, and discussions with Ministry officials.
The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing a separate evaluation of
the project and commenting on the draft ICR.
The ICR was prepared by a team composed of Alassane Diawara (Task Manager,
AFTH2), Anwar Bach-Baouab (Task Team Leader, AFTH2) and Alice Morton (Social
Anthropologist, Consultant). It was reviewed by Ok Pannenborg, Technical Manager,
AFTH2, and Peter HalTold, Acting Country Director, AFC 14. The borrower provided
comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.






ii
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(Credit 2255-SN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:      Cr. 2255-SN
Credit Amount:     US$25.4 million
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Plan, Ministry of Youth and Sport, Ministry of Women, Children
and Family
Date effective:     January 17, 1992
Date Closed:        March 31, 1997
Introduction
1.    PHRD I was prepared during 1989-1990, appraised in 1990 and negotiated in 1991. It was
the first of a series of operations to be developed under the umbrella of a comprehensive human
resources development program supporting key elements of Senegal's medium-term social and
economic development plan. This project focused on the population and health sectors. PHRD II,
appraised later, focused on education and training.. Two additional IDA-financed social sector
projects--functional literacy and community nutrition--complement those PHRD I activities that are
oriented toward women and youth. At the time PHRD I was appraised, an earlier IDA-financed
health sector project had been completed, which allowed for a certain continuity in implementation
within the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MASA). That project, however, had no significant
population component, so that PHRD I represented IDA's first effort to support the Government's
new comprehensive National Population Policy Declaration (1988).
2.    In 1991, Senegal was characterized by an accelerating population growth rate of
3.2% per year, a low level of life expectancy compared with other poor countries (48
years), very low contraceptive prevalence for modem methods (4.8% in 1990), and very
high infant and matemnal mortality (still 510/100,000 deliveries in 1996). There was
evidence of demand for contraceptive services despite cultural constraints, as well as a
need to focus population and health services increasingly on youth, who already
constituted nearly 50%,f0 of the population in 1990. At Project appraisal, Senegal also had a
high morbidity rate due in part to a high incidence of preventable and treatable diseases.
Diarrhea, respiratory iinfections and malaria, compounded by poor nutrition, were the



iii
leading causes of morbidity and mortality. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including
AIDS also contributed to poor health status. Despite progress made during the 1980s as a
result of a clear policy shift toward a minimum package approach in primary health care,
the public health system continued to suffer from inadequacy and inequities in sector
financing, and low efficiency in the use of resources by public health facilities. The
institutional base for health care management was weak, and private sector and NGO
involvement in public health was minimal.
Project Objectives
3.    PHRDI's objectives were to support Government's efforts to: (i) control fertility
and reduce the rate of population growth, through implementation of the National
Population Program, and (ii) restructure the health sector to enable it to provide basic
health services of improved quality and wider accessibility, through implementation of the
National Health Policy. Key policy reform measures included in this investment
operation were: (i) liberalization of regulations on contraceptive distribution and use; (ii)
measures in support of the district health system, including adoption of organizational
norms for the district; ensuring sufficient budgetary allocations; personnel redeployment;
adoption of organizational and procedural guidelines for community health organizations,
and (iii) measures to restructure the health sector toward the promotion of essential drugs.
4.    To meet its objectives, the project design took a comprehensive, multi-sectoral
approach, addressing as many determinants of fertility behavior as possible, while working
on increasing both the demand for and the supply of services, and targeting the needs of
key groups and levels of intended beneficiaries--health care providers, clients of the health
care system, private sector firms and their employees, private and public sector
pharmacists. It also placed special emphasis on women and youth as ultimate beneficiaries
of services as well as promoters of demand. In retrospect, the objectives as stated were
extremely ambitious given the 3 years length of the project as designed.
Implementation, Experience and Results
(i)    Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability
5.    Given the 15 month extension of the initial project completion date, the project's
development objectives have been largely achieved. This is true despite the fact that the objectives
are broad and ambitious, and the project design complex and innovative. Regarding the first
objective, contraceptive prevalence for modem methods had risen to 9% by 1994, and results of the
second Demographic and Health Survey, anticipated for September 1997 may show increased
prevalence, although it is unlikely that the original target of 14% by project completion will have
been attained. Project activities in support of this objective, involved four ministries, five
organizational levels from the capital to the community, four NGOs, studies and policy work by a
variety of institutions, as well as training by five entities at several levels, and of eight categories of
personnel and ultimate beneficiaries.
6.    Coverage and quality of FP services in the public and private sectors have been
considerably enhanced, through training of 720 nurses who are heads of health posts, provision of



iv
materials on maternal-child health and on nutrition to health posts, and reproductive health
curriculum reform for all health schools, accompanied by development of better teaching materials.
Women's groups, youth associations and local health committees have been sensitized through
various IEC programs, and are thus likely to demand higher quality of care as well as more
accessible services since they are now involved in managing the funds generated through cost
recovery. For the private sector, FP services and IEC have been enhanced in private and para-
public companies, as well as in pharmacies, through training of clerks, pharmaceutical warehouse
managers and pharmacists, as well as the health personnel of private finns.
7.    The second objective--restructuring the health sector to ensure better quality,
better managed and rnore accessible health services-- has also been achieved. The health
component ($25 mill:ion) included sector-wide reforms and institutional strengthening sub-
components as well aLs sub-components that would be piloted or completely supported in
three health regions--.-Dakar, Thies and Diourbel. Decentralization of management and
funding to the regional, district and community levels, including the formation of regional
health teams and development of regional and district-level health plans; training in
management for regional and district general practitioners and health post nurses;
construction of and equipment for 60 health posts, development of a decentralized
personnel deployment plan, successful introduction of essential drugs in the context of the
Bamako Initiative, including provision of initial stocks, and introduction of generic drugs
in both the private and public sectors accompanying the complete overhaul of the national
pharmacy and its management systems, have contributed significantly to attainment of this
objective. Anticipated deployment of two GPs to each district has been only partially
achieved, despite MASA efforts to implement its staff redeployment policy. This was due
to the lack of progress at the time of implementation in decentralization of human
resources in the country as a whole. All sector-wide policy reforms have been achieved
including those related to annual increases to the overall proportion of the national budget
allocated to the healtlh sector.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
(i)    Findings
8.    The project indicates that reforms can be started and generalized under an investment
operation without conditionalities and budget support, given government commitment and good
project design. But it has been noted that, where project success depends on significant
redeployment of civil servants concrete human resources management measures should be included
in conditions of effectiveness, and should be taken up in dialogue on civil service reform under
other projects and programs. (Relevant wherever administrative reform and public sector
modernization interventions are also being supported by bilateral or multilateral agencies, including
the IMF). Also including project funding for expatriate technical assistance is less viable in
projects than was previously the case. If government technicians can do work "en regis", they will;
if not, they will contract for local TA. Only if IDA supervision proves that results have not been
obtained using this approach will expatriate TA funds then be spent (now increasingly relevant in
AFR and other regions as well). Finally if demand is accurately assessed and accountability
measures introduced and monitored, cost recovery rates for services can increase very quickly.
Within five years, decentralized health care centers and their health committees are recovering an



v
average of 120-130% of recurrent costs apart from salaries of state employees and amortization of
infrastructure.
(ii)   Future Operations
9.    The major proportion of project activities will be replicated in other regions of the country
with support from the SIP which, in turn, will be co-financed by a group of multilateral and
bilateral donors. The donor consultative group meeting for this SIP was held in May 1997, in
response to the Government's new National Development Plan for Health (PNDS). IDA has
worked very closely with the European Union to mobilize donor consultation and collaboration.
Appraisal of IDA's participation in the program was made in May 1997. The project has been
negotiated with the Government in July 1997, and is schedule to be presented to the Board on
September 4, 1997.
10.   The remaining activities initiated or expanded under PHRD 1, including the women's sub-
component and the youth sub-component, are already receiving some parallel funding. In the
former case, African Development Bank Project (five regions), and in the latter case UNFPA, has
made funding available. UNFPA is also supporting policy related studies and dialogue to assist in
the preparation of the second Population Priority Investment Action Plan. Meanwhile, UNICEF,
UNFPA, various Nordic bilaterals, the Dutch and the Japanese are potential sources of support to
these and related initiatives in the context of a proposed donor consultative group meeting for the
Government's social development program. This meeting would be centered around the Women's
Action Plan, the Youth Action Plan, the Poverty Alleviation Action Plan, as well as an overall
Human Development Action Plan which is currently being developed. IDA has indicated that if
approached by the GOS to provide funding for a multi-sectoral social development and poverty
alleviation intervention, it would consider such a request favorably in the context of the
forthcoming Country Assistance Strategy.
(iii)   Key Lessons Learned
11.   Significant lessons for future project work and policy reform can be learned from studies
and surveys funded under an investment operation. This speeds up preparation and appraisal of
the next sector credit and enhances the policy dialogue during the implementation of that
investment operation.
12.   Intensive Resident Mission and HQ supervision can support implementation of complex,
multi-sectoral projects that also involve decentralization, but this commitment should be made at
the outset.
13.   A well-tailored role for NGOs under government contract can prove very effective and
may be both less expensive and more participatory than direct govermment implementation.
14.   Including a gender focus in IEC for FP and reproductive health in a multi-sectoral project
is effective, especially when supported by local-level income-generating and literacy activities. If
possible, this should also include targeting a certain proportion of women members of other local-
level committees, such as district or sub-district health committees.



vi
15.   Multi-donor geographical division of multi-sectoral activities, unless coordinated from the
preparation phase on, is likely to complicate rather than to simplify implementation, as differences
in technical content, procedures and component funding levels are introduced.
16.   Addressing key beneficiary groups with demand-driven IEC and service delivery
programs, including counseling, can be extremely effective in environments where cultural
prohibitions are prorninent. Outreach dimensions of these same programs can also help to
change attitudes and behavior of non-targeted beneficiaries. (True in multi-ethnic and
multi-cultural environments, as well as in those where religious or political factors
constitute a risk for project objective attainment or sustainability).



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(Credit 2255-SN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
1.    This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is the product of a completion mission which took place in
late February and early Marchl 1997, a month before the Project closing date. The mission met with staff of all
five project coordination and support units, with senior officials in each ministry concerned, and carried out visits
to field sites in two regions of the country. Visits included interviews with beneficiaries at all levels of the
decentralized structures involved in project implementation, including the community level. A joint meeting was
held with the three NGOs that. had been involved in the family planning IEC component, under the auspices of
CONGAD, the national NGO association. Project completion reports from each component unit and from the
central coordination unit were reviewed and revised. An aide-memoire was prepared by the mission team,
reviewed at the technical level with the component coordinators, and discussed at a wrap-up meeting with ministry
officials (see Appendix 1).
2.    Meetings were also held with staff of other donor agencies--U.S.A.I.D., UNICEF, UNFPA, EU-- that had
financed parallel or related projects during the five years of PHRD I implementation. Their views were sought
concerning the context surroumding the PHRD I implementation process and its evolution over time, project
strengths and weaknesses, and potential for consolidating outcomes through Bank and other donor funding. These
discussions were also oriented. toward future donor collaboration in the context of the Government's new National
Development Plan for Health (PNDS) and the proposed Health Sector Investment Program (SIP), as well as a
possible poverty-oriented multi-sector development plan.
B.    Project Backgroumd
3.    PHRD I was prepared during 1989-1990, appraised in 1990 and negotiated in 1991. It was the first of a
series of operations to be developed under the umbrella of a comprehensive human resources development
program supporting key elements of Senegal's medium-term social and economic development plan. This project
focused on the population and health sectors. PHRD II, appraised later, focused on education and training. Two
additional IDA-financed social sector projects--functional literacy and community nutrition--complement those
PHRD I activities that are oriented toward women and youth. At the time PHRD I was appraised, an earlier
IDA-financed health sector project had been completed, which allowed for a certain continuity in implementation
within the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MASA). That project, however, had no significant population
component, so that PHRD I represented IDA's first effort to support the Government's new comprehensive
National Population Policy Declaration (1988).
4.    In 1991, Senegal was characterized by an accelerating population growth rate of 3.2% per year, a low
level of life expectancy compared with other poor countries (48 years), very low contraceptive prevalence for
modem methods (4.8% in 1990), and very high infant and maternal mortality (still 510/100,000 deliveries in
1996). There was evidence of demand for contraceptive services despite cultural constraints, as well as a need to



2
focus population and health services increasingly on youth, who already constituted nearly 50% of the population
in 1990. At Project appraisal, Senegal also had a high morbidity rate due in part to a high incidence of
preventable and treatable diseases. Diarrhea, respiratory infections and malaria, compounded by poor nutrition,
were the leading causes of morbidity and mortality. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including AIDS also
contributed to poor health status. Despite progress made during the 1980s as a result of a clear policy shift
toward a minimum package approach in primary health care, the public health system continued to suffer from
inadequacy and inequities in sector financing, and low efficiency in the use of resources by public health facilities.
The institutional base for health care management was weak, and private sector and NGO involvement in public
health was minimal.
5.     These inter-related problems dictated a project design that allowed for collaboration among a number of
MASA entities, both at the center and the periphery. A separate sub-component was required to resuscitate the
moribund MASA pharmaceutical system (PNA), linked to putting in place an essential and generic drugs policy.
The cross-sectoral population component supported integration of family planning into decentralized public sector
primary health care, as well as training and IEC activities through private sector pharmacies, youth associations,
and women's groups. A key design element to facilitate implementation of this multi-sectoral and multi-
component project was the inclusion of a series of studies, policy papers and related dissemination activities that
would support the on-going policy and institutional reform process over the proposed three years of project
implementation.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
6.     PHRD l's objectives were to support Government efforts to: (i) control fertility and reduce the rate of
population growth, through implementation of the National Population Program, and (ii) restructure the health
sector to enable it to provide basic health services of improved quality and wider accessibility, through
implementation of the National Health Policy. Key policy reform measures included in this investment operation
were: (i) liberalization of regulations on contraceptive distribution and use; (ii) measures in support of the district
health system, including adoption of organizational norms for the district; ensuring sufficient budgetary
allocations; personnel redeployment; adoption of organizational and procedural guidelines for community health
organizations, and (iii) measures to restructure the health sector toward the promotion of essential drugs.
7.    Designed as a three-year transition effort, the Project had very ambitious objectives, the attainment of
which was not completely within the manageable interest of the Project or of IDA. Other donors, such as
U.S.A.I.D. and UNICEF had already taken the lead to support the development of population policy, and in the
areas of contraceptive service delivery, family planning IEC, and in certain vertical programs such as
vaccinations, while the EU and France were assisting the pharmaceutical agency. However, continued reform of
the primary health care system, and further activities to support changes in fertility behavior were critical to the
Association's country strategy and ultimate success of other sector operations and directly supported the
Government's national policies and programs. To meet its objectives, the project design took a comprehensive,
multi-sectoral approach, addressing as many determinants of fertility behavior as possible, while working on
increasing both the demand for and the supply of services, and targeting the needs of key groups and levels of
intended beneficiaries--health care providers, clients of the health care system, private sector firms and their
employees, private and public sector pharmacists. It also placed special emphasis on women and youth as
ultimate beneficiaries of services as well as promoters of demand. In retrospect, the objectives as stated were
extremely ambitious given the length of the project as designed.



3
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    Given the 15 month extension of the initial project completion date, these development objectives have
been largely achieved. This is true despite the fact that the objectives are broad and ambitious, and the project
design complex and innovative. Regarding the first objective, contraceptive prevalence for modem methods had
risen to 9% by 1994, and results of the second Demographic and Health Survey, anticipated for April 1997 may
show increased prevalence, although it is unlikely that the original target of 14% by project completion will have
been attained (see Table 1 - health and population indicators). Project activities in support of this objective,
(approximately one-third of the $39 million project funding level), involved four ministries (Finance, Economy
and Plan; Health and Social AfEfairs; Women, Children and the Family; and Youth and Sports), five organizational
levels from the capital to the community, three NGOs, studies and policy work by a variety of institutions, as well
as training by five entities at several levels, and of eight categories of personnel and ultimate beneficiaries.
9.    Coverage and quality of FP services in the public and private sectors have been considerably enhanced,
tirough training of 720 nurses' who are heads of health posts, provision of materials on maternal-child health and
on nutrition to health posts, and reproductive health curriculum reform for all health schools, accompanied by
development of better teaching materials. Women's groups, youth associations and local health committees have
been sensitized through various IEC programs, and are thus likely to demand higher quality of care as well as
more accessible services since they are now involved in managing the funds generated through cost recovery. For
the private sector, FP services and IEC have been enhanced in private and para-public companies, as well as in
pharmacies, through training of clerks, pharmaceutical warehouse managers and pharmacists, as well as the health
personnel of private firms. Institutional support to the MASA's national education and health promotion service
(SNEPS), has been a further factor in the improved coverage and quality. The high level of success in the
training component and IEC for FP in support of the PNFP, is in part related to the work of three NGOS, ASBEF,
SANFAM for private sector firms and pharmacies, and GEEP for in-school IEC programs. Nine youth centers
and two sub-centers have been built, and equipment provided for these and additional ones not originally included
in the project area, while more than 73 youth associations have received training in a variety of areas, including
FP IEC. Members of 223 wonmen's groups have received functional literacy training, FP IEC. Over three
thousand women have received literacy and numeracy training in local languages, and, when the management
training cycle is finished and all supplementary equipment delivered, they will be operating labor-saving
technologies to generate income, and will now also manage 30 women's centers on a cost-recovery basis.
10.   The second objective--:restructuring the health sector to ensure better quality, better managed and more
accessible health services-- has also been achieved. The health component ($25 million) included sector-wide
reforms and institutional strengthening sub-components as well as sub-components that would be piloted or
completely supported in three health regions---Dakar, Thies and Diourbel. Four other regions were included in a
U.S.A.I.D.-funded program with similar elements. This component also included six studies to help assess
particular problem and policy areas that facilitated preparation of the SIP, scheduled for FY 1997.
Decentralization of management and funding to the regional, district and community levels, including the
formation of regional health teams and development of regional and district-level health plans; training in
management for regional and district general practitioners and health post nurses; construction of and equipment
for 60 health posts, development of a decentralized personnel deployment plan, successful introduction of essential
drugs in the context of the Bamako Initiative, including provision of initial stocks, and introduction of generic
drugs in both the private and public sectors accompanying the complete overhaul of the national pharmacy and its
management systems, have contributed significantly to attainment of this objective. Anticipated deployment of
two GPs to each district has been only partially achieved, despite MASA efforts to implement its staff
redeployment policy. This was due to the lack of progress at the time of implementation in decentralization of
human resources in the country as a whole. Appointment of the second GP to the district level is now beginning to
take place however. The short-term training of GPs in emergency surgery, designed to allow them to perform
simple life-saving operations under emergency conditions without risking lives through lack of emergency
transportation facilities, was blocked by the academic medical community despite early positive negotiations



4
during project appraisal. As an interim measure, surgeons are being made available on an emergency basis from
the nearest hospital to the decentralized treatment facilities. All sector-wide policy reforms have been achieved
including those related to annual increases to the overall proportion of the national budget allocated to the health
sector. Success in this reform area was achieved despite overall budget cuts and wage ceilings introduced in the
context of structural adjustment, administrative reform and decentralization. In fact, public expenditures for
health have actually tended to stagnate, despite overall increases in budget allocation to the sector and great
success in cost recovery for basic services and essential drugs. Despite the devaluation of the CFA Franc, prices
for essential drugs were maintained at pre-devaluation levels, ensuring affordability and the integrity of the cost-
recovery system. Overall, the success of reforms included in this investment operation without SECAL-type
conditionalities and IDA budget support is remarkable.
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   Outside Government Manaeeable Interest. At the time PHRD I was negotiated and became effective, a
manual of operations and a procurement plan were not conditions of effectiveness. Therefore, the first year of
effectiveness resulted in little implementation although the component support units and the central coordination
unit were set up and staffed, and some activities under the health and women's components were undertaken.
Given the fact that the health component represented 75% of project funding, the health component unit had a
separate special account. While this facilitated progress in procurement under that component, it also resulted in
the other three ministry-based component managers and technicians often questioning the requirement that their
activities be funded through the second special account, managed by central coordination unit which. This dual
level of management and oversight did, indeed, lead to implementation and disbursement delays, and resulting
inter-agency and interpersonal conflicts also contributed to lack of anticipated collaboration, coordination and
synergy. Once momentum had been achieved, the threshold for special account replenishment required support
units to prepare replenishment requests for both accounts, more often than unit staff had anticipated. In some
cases, in order to speed up payment for key activity implementation, IDA agreed to direct payments below the
usual threshold. Health has been one of the pilot sectors in which all budgets are being decentralized. PHRD I
fostered this process, but was to some extent constrained by the fact that IDA discourages sub-accounts, since
these may encourage borrower governments to fail to take appropriate budgetary measures to accompany
decentralization moves. The fact that under the latest GOH policy budgets are being completely decentralized will
resolve this problem in the future.
12.   The existence of parallel and sometimes conflicting other donor's projects and budget support posed some
problems for the PHRD I implementation and disbursement, especially under the population component. The fact
that PHRD was "managed" at the Cabinet level of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan, while the related
FNUAP projects were with the Population and Human Resources Direction caused failures in communication and
coordination. Similarly, the fact that U.S.A.I.D. and FNUAP worked at the National Population Program level
while PHRD I worked at the MCH/FP Direction level led to failures in communication and coordination among
projects, especially in terms of training and IEC materials production. Finally, the devaluation of the CFA Franc
in early 1994 caused a disbursement delay of seven months, while the Government developed standards and
procedures for re-evaluating project costs, contracts, counterpart contributions and related procurement issues.
13.   Within Government Manageable Interest. Government commitment to sector reforms was generally
good for health care, population, improvement of the situation of women, and diversification in the activities of
youth associations. There were changes in population policy following the Intermational Population Conference in
Cairo in 1994, shifting to a reproductive health-oriented policy from a family planning-oriented one. These
changes were facilitated by studies and policy discussions financed by the project under the Institutional
Strengthening component. The key reform area affecting project implementation was the development and
implementation of overall decentralization policy, following the initial steps in decentralization of the health sector.
Decentralization became effective in January 1997, and fortunately, the PHRD I design was actually in advance of
this significant and formal policy reform. Timely provision of counterpart funds proved to be a problem; the



5
75%/ 25% split initially established for IDA and counterpart funds, respectively, proved inoperable due to
persistent delays in availability of counterpart funds. Resulting delays in procurement and in other areas were
such that IDA agreed to 100% financing for certain activities.
14.   Although the Government quickly appointed key staff to the various project coordination units, steps were
not taken to replace those of them who proved to be ineffective. This caused a two-year delay in implementation
of the youth component, and problems in institutional strengthening of the National Health Education Service
(SNEPS), and its support to otlher project components.
15.   Within Control of Imiplementinf Azengv, PHRDI was implemented by the Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Plan, and was attached to the Minister's Cabinet. Oversight was supposed to have been exercised by
an Intenninisterial Committee (IC), with the central coordination unit (UCP) as its secretariat. Since the IC did
not meet, the UCP began to play a strong an oversight and management role, rather than the coordination role
originally anticipated. Repeated requests by that unit for meetings of the Committee were not honored, and over
five years of implementation, the Committee met only twice. Meanwhile, some ministries refused to conform to
procedures developed by the coordination unit, for example making their own procurement arrangements, some of
which were then disallowed. Others persisted in trying to manage civil works even when the decision had been
taken to contract with AGETIP to ensure faster construction and equipment of physical structures. Some units
were loath to decentralize management of training or other activities to the district level, and there were no
sanctions available to encourage them to do so. The anticipated use of local and expatriate experts did not
materialize in some cases, and in others, was postponed until errors had already been made.
16.    On the positive side, the UCP developed an operations manual and a variety of procedures and
implementation and monitoring tools, and carried out a strict monitoring schedule. Despite the delays and
difficulties with counterpart funds, difficulties in managing international bidding, and problems with the special
account, the UCP achieved a perfect audit track record, which is remarkable for a project of this complexity and
scope. By the end of February, 1997 one month before the completion date, 95% of funds had been disbursed,
despite more than two years of implementation delays and the seven month devaluation-related disbursement
hiatus. Credit should also be given to the Health coordination unit (USC/Sante) for effective management of the
second special account. The head of the Youth coordination unit (USC/Jeunes) was able to achieve nearly all sub-
component objectives in little more than one year of implementation, while the women's coordination unit
(USC/Femmes) effectively managed an innovative, multi-faceted women's program in five regions, with minimal
funding for local-level staff. This component got started earlier than some others, although it too experienced
serious delays in civil works, anrd in payment of para-professional literacy trainers and auxiliaries.
F.    Project Sustainability
17.   Policy Environment. ]n large part due to policy reform measures supported by PHRD I and other IDA
credits, the policy environment in Senegal is now extremely favorable for sustainability of most actions initiated
under the Project. This is especially true for the continued decentralization of management and service provision
in primary health care, including reproductive health and essential drugs. The cost recovery program managed by
local committees has proved so successful that decentralized, elected officials and ministry staff will together have
to ensure that sufficient funds are reinvested in health and essential drugs related activities specifically, while fees
for service do not become inflated and the array of "minimum packages" maximized. Cost recovery through
health committees amounted to 2 billion FCFA by the last months of Project implementation, and many
decentralized health centers were recovering 100-130% of their recurrent costs except for ministry staff salaries
and amortization of infrastructure. In addition, some committees were able to pay for additional staff
(secretaries, drivers, auxiliaries), no longer included under current central ministry funding guidelines. Others are
moving to renovate or build "cases de sante"--sub-district level health centers--and then hire health agents or
nurses to run them, and procure essential drugs from the regional or district-level pharmacy. this shows that if
demand is accurately assessed, and accountability measures introduced and monitored, cost recovery rates for



6
services can increase very quickly. Best practice examples are already being replicated by other donors, such as
the adolescent advice centers with "hot-lines" already included in the Project's regions and funded by UNFPA and
ASBEF. For reproductive health and population/FP specifically, there remain some issues of de-medicalization of
service delivery, availability of contraceptives at the local level as well as women's health issues in general. These
matters will be pursued in policy dialogue in connection with the new Sector Investment Program for Health.
18.   Government Commitment.   The Government is now highly committed to promoting functional
literacy and numeracy among women and youth, in part due to successes under the women's and youth
components of this Project. There is now a Literacy Ministry, whose main target is women. The GOS has
provided a small amount of funding to consolidate activities funded under PHRD 1, and in conjunction with its
Women's Action Plan, is seeking donor funding to extend these and related activities throughout the country. For
youth, the situation is less clear. PHRD 1 was the first major project to include the Ministry of Youth and Sports
MJS). Under the Project, emphasis for youth association activities shifted radically from an all-male, sports
program orientation, to development and dissemination of an education for family life program, also supported by
UNFPA. Employment generation activities were not included for youth, but the rising rate of unemployment for
urban and rural adolescents and young adults (both included as "youth" under Senegal's legal definition, which
extends to include those 15-35), is a potentially explosive political issue that the GOS is very much interested in
addressing. However, it is unclear at this juncture that without bridging donor support, the MJS will be able to
assimilate and generalize all the lessons learned from the IDA and UNFPA supported initiatives. These initiatives
together have had a definite and measurable positive impact on knowledge, attitudes and behavioral changes
regarding contraception, sexual behavior and protection against STDs, including AIDS as demonstrated by the
second Knowldged Attitude Practice (KAP) Study conducted in January 1997. The sample for KAP II was 1,029
youth between the ages of 15 and 25 participating in non-school activities, who had benefited from the project
component in Dakar, Thies, Kaolack and Saint-Louis. This compares with a sample of 680 covered in the first
KAP study. The study used both focus groups and quantitative survey methods, and focused on attitudinal and
behavioral change resulting from IEC and the EFL program specifically. Highlights of KAP II results are that
81% of those interviewed stated that they had changed their behavior and attitudes regarding sexual activity,
fertility, delinquency and their relations with their environment, including their parents, and that these changes
were positive. All those interviewed, regardless of region, know both modem and traditional contraceptive
methods. Of modern methods, the condom is the best known (94.3% of respondents), followed by the pill (92.6%)
and the IUD (77.3%/6). Boys responded slightly more positively on condoms than girls, responses of boys and girls
were equal for pills, and those of girls exceeded those of boys for the IUD by about half. 87% of those sampled
seemed very favorable about contraception, saying that it was necessary to space births, to avoid early pregnancy,
and to be able to better support children.
19.   Institutional! Mana2ement Effectiveness. The move toward decentralization of all social development
activities, as well as financial resource generation to the regional and district levels will radically alter the
institutional and management context for activities initiated and strengthened under PHRD 1. In some instances,
further support for institutional strengthening at these decentralized levels, and at the sub-district level, will be
necessary. In the PHC domain, however, PHRD 1 has already accomplished a great deal. There is evidence to
suggest that in Senegal, as elsewhere, management that is closest to beneficiaries is likely to be more effective than
that which is more centralized and more distant. The span of authority of elected officials will continue to
increase, while the power of civil servants is likely to diminish, and self-managed programs in health, women's
affairs, youth affairs, as well as in infrastructure development and maintenance are the wave of the future.
Decentralized activities piloted under PHRD 1, and attempts at lateral coordination at the regional and district
levels fostered under the Project within the health sector, and across health and the other sectors, can provide best
practice examples for replication in other regions, as well as providing lessons about what works less well.
20.   Local Participation and Social Impact. More than any other facet of the PHRD 1 initiatives and
interventions, it is the emphasis on increased local participation and empowerment of community health
committees, women's groups and youth associations in the context of decentralization and cost recovery programs



7
that makes their sustainability extremely likely. Some concem is expressed at the central level that if supervision
by civil servants from the center and the periphery diminishes, political pressure by local elites to capture benefits
may substantially increase. Nevertheless, the intensity of continued supervision desired by many ministry staff
involved in the Project seems more representative of the old heavy "encadrement" system than of the new
orientation toward decentralization and participation. For PHC, there is still a need to improve quality of care
and health education througlh participatory management of health services. As local health committees see that
they are indeed empowered, can generate (and withhold) significant funds, and are required by law to pay for
lower-level health personnel, they are likely to demand better quality care and more participation in management
of health posts and other health infrastructure. As youth associations see what women's groups can do with
income generating activities initially supported under the Project, they too will begin to innovate, as has already
been the case in some conmmunities. Still, the genuine withdrawal of the state bureaucracy from local-level affairs,
and ensuring benefit delivery to the poorer and more remote communities or peri-urban areas at affordable prices
should be reinforced and monitored. This will be done in part by the beneficiaries themselves, perhaps if local
committees join in regional lederations that can then elect members of a national, apex organization. This will
also be supported by the Health Sector Investment Program and a possible Poverty Alleviation Project, the PAGD
and the Community Nutrition Project as well as interventions by other donors.
G.    Bank Performance
21.   Identification of PHRD I, as the first of a series of social development projects following on a health
sector investment project, turns out to have been extremely unsightful. Many of the reforms and investment
activities funded under the Project, such as the decentralized health district approach, the promotion of cost
recovery mechanisms at the community level, and participation by community members and beneficiaries
themselves in PHC management, as well as women's income generation and management training in addition to
literacy and numeracy training, have been in the vanguard, and have had a very positive impact on the
generalization of good policies and best practices to other interventions, including those of other donors. Another
innovative facet of the project that has been successful in implementation is the inclusion of policy and
programmatic studies and dissemination activities that have led to and advanced execution of reforms without
requiring conditionality or budget support. This, combined with the cross-sectoral approach, and a variety of self-
sustaining activities including those fostered by Government contracting with NGOs, are particularly noteworthy.
Preparation and appraisal proceeded relatively smoothly, in part because the Project supported key elements of the
Government's own economic and social development policy and strategy. Given the multiplicity of Government
and non-government actors, negotiations for particularly delicate aspects of project design, such as emergency
surgery training for GPs; redeployment of MASA staff to the regional and district levels; steps necessary to
introduce the minimum package approach to PHC, as well as the essential and generic drug initiatives, were well
staffed out during preparation and appraisal. The appraisal team, together with other donors, paid careful
attention to measures needed to bring the national pharmacy from bankruptcy to profitable status, and to ensure
appropriate management of inventory, especially for essential drugs, proved crucial to the ultimate successes
achieved in the pharmaceutical domain. Nevertheless, the lack of conditions of effectiveness relating to the
preparation of a procuremeni and an operations manual upstream of project effectiveness, led to very significant
delays in project start-up. (these were not required at the time the Project was appraised).
22.   The Association also contributed to project success in intensive supervision. The joint supervision model,
in which task management is shared between the Resident Mission and HQ has proved indispensable to ensure
that project complexity did not lead to project failure. Continuity of IDA staff involvement since project launch
has also been extremely impcrtant. The Project provided considerable training in procurement and disbursement
to Senegalese project staff, tc help ensure smooth implementation. IDA also worked hard to ensure that there was
increased coordination among donors with parallel interventions, although official co-financing did not take place.
When it emerged during implementation that there were some overlaps in funding with other donor programs and
projects, such as for contraceptive procurement, IDA worked with the Government to program available credit
funds accordingly. Recognizing after the mid-term review that delays had been such that the completion date



8
should be revised, IDA moved quickly, agreeing on an action plan to ensure that all project activities would be
completed and all funds disbursed by the new completion date. As part of this mid-course correction, IDA
introduced further involvement of AGETIP for civil works and other interventions.
H.    Borrower Performance
23.   Government of Senegal participation in project preparation was particularly good at the policy reform
level. The Project corresponded to support for several key objectives of the Government's newly prepared
National Population Policy, and its later National Family Planning Policy, as well as initial moves toward
decentralization and implementation of the Bamnako Initiative in primary health care PHC. The Government
participated intensively in identification and preparation, presenting its national population policy in draft to the
Bank at HQ, and then working through a Government committee for nearly two years to prepare the project.
After effectiveness, despite some initial changes in the institutional location of the coordination unit and the
identification of the central Coordinator, the Government quickly named staff to project support units
(PSUs/UCPs), which then began-in consultation with the Bank-to put in place necessary procurement and other
procedures. Aside from those in the Health Component Support Unit (UCP/Sante), none of these staff were
familiar with Bank Group project implementation, however. Therefore, training was provided in Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures, as well as project planning and management. Not all coordination unit
staff who were anticipated beneficiaries chose to participate in this training, however.
24.   Since the IC which was supposed to oversee and manage the Project, only met once in 1992, and again in
1995, despite repeated requests addressed to the Minister of Finance, Economy and Plan by the UCP, other
coordination mechanisms were designed by project staff, including an Inter-component Technical Coordination
Group, in order to facilitate exchanges among various support units responsible for particular components, and to
foster inter-component synergies and collaboration. Though this group met monthly, it was boycotted by staff of
certain ministries. In part as a result of the failure of these implementation arrangements, and the inability or
unwillingness of the MEFP to either reinforce or change them, the central coordination unit (UCP), took over
additional oversight and management responsibilities. This, in turn, aggravated claims by other units that the
central unit was trying to subordinate them without authorization. Meanwhile, within components, similar claims
were made by technical units that were already directorates or services of major ministries, and thus did not accept
the authority of Project component support units to intervene in their affairs. These inherent structural problems,
combined with personality conflicts, exacerbated implementation delays throughout the implementation period.
25.   Within the health component at the regional and district levels, coordination and collaboration were
significantly better, and the establishment of regional-level teams proved relatively successful despite some
staffing shortages. Collaboration among components was also generally better at these levels, in part because
there were real benefits for all stakeholders if they collaborated, and in part because--coincidentally--those
assigned to some of the project regions from different ministries had already worked well together in other
contexts. In Thies, a formal protocol for collaboration was drawn up in February 1996, calling for collaborative
planning, formation and resource sharing and monthly meetings. This protocol was sent to other project regions
as an example, but was not always replicated, in part because appropriate signals did not come from above
through the respective line ministries. This continued to be the case despite a structured program of field
monitoring and evaluation visits observed by the UCP and the CSUs.
26.   Following the mid-term review in October 1994, the IC met for the second and last time, and project staff
were instructed to abide by the context of the Credit Agreement. Meanwhile, certain key unit leaders were
replaced, and implementation activities in youth, health and IEC moved forward much more quickly.
Construction and equipping of civil works, however, continued to lag because individual ministries did not want to
contract out to AGETIP even if this would speed up implementation and relieve them of considerable management
burdens. Timely provision of counterpart funds proved a problem; those line items where a 75%-25% split was
established for IDA and counterpart funds, respectively, proved particularly hard to implement due to persistent



9
unavailability of counterpart funds. This was a genuine problem due to the country's economic circumstances in
1993-94. Others delays were such that para-professional staff went unpaid for six months at a time, while some
NGO contractors have been waiting for final payments for over seven months.
27.    Overall, the Project made little use of technical assistance personnel whether Senegalese or expatriate
except in the reform of the F'NA and for specific policy studies under the population institutional strengthening
and health components. In the former case, long-term technical assistance was provided by other donors. Project
funds originally included for TA were eventually programmed but had transparent decisions about the use of these
funds been made earlier by the Borrower, they could have been progranumed sooner, leading to earlier and more
significant impact. Those contractors who were used performed adequately. Despite training and careful
supervision by the Task Managers, many bidding documents had to be revised, sometimes more han once, with
the result that procurement was frequently significantly delayed. In addition, there were key differences of opinion
among technical and support unit staff regarding almost all procurement actions; support unit staff who were in
charge of carrying out the procurement actions according to technical specifications provided by the other
technicians in some cases lacked sufficient understanding of these specifications. This, too, resulted in delays and
in instances in which the equipment ultimately delivered was inappropriate or incomplete.
28.   Thus, Borrower performance was mixed. In some areas, such as policy reform and implementation, it
was highly satisfactory. In others, such as institutional strengthening and day to day management, it was
marginally satisfactory, and in terms of anticipated synergies, it was unsatisfactory. Nonetheless, all activities are
being achieved, and all funds disbursed, with a clean audit record despite all of the problems and weaknesses. The
result is highly positive even though the process was in many ways extremely management and supervision
intensive, and less than satisfactory.
L      Assessment of Outcome
29.   The outcomes of PHRD I are satisfactory. It has achieved almost all its development objectives, with the
probable exception of the targeted increase in contraceptive prevalence. The very positive evolution of the PNA
structure and systems is a bonus derived from the Project's essential drugs activity. Sustainability at the district
and sub-district levels is virtually assured, in large part because of the decentralized and participatory nature of
interventions and activities. Those elements which are both exemplary and most innovative, such as self-managed
income generating activities for women's groups, and the education for family life activities of youth associations,
perhaps require some additional interim support to become completely institutionalized. This support is likely to
be forthcoming from a combination of donor-funded efforts and Government support to be provided through
decentralized resource mobilization, including cost recovery.
J.     Future Operations
30.   The major proportion of project activities will be replicated in other regions of the country with support
from the SIP which, in turn, will be co-financed by a group of multilateral and bilateral donors. The donor
consultative group meeting for this SIP Is was held in mid-April 1997, in response to the Govemment's new and
revised National Development Plan for Health (PNDS). IDA has worked very closely with the European Union
to mobilize donor consultation and collaboration. Appraisal of IDA's participation in the program was made in
May 1997. The project has been negotiated with the Government in June 1997, and is schedule to the Board on
September 4, 1997.
31.   The remaining activities initiated or expanded under PHRD I, including the women's sub-component and
the youth sub-component, are already receiving some parallel funding. In the former case, African Development
Bank Project (five regions), and in the latter case UNFPA, has made funding available. UNFPA is also supporting
policy related studies and dialogue to assist in the preparation of the second Priority Investment Action Plan.
Meanwhile, UNICEF, UNFE'A, various Nordic bilaterals, the Dutch and the Japanese are potential sources of



10
support to these and related initiatives in the context of a proposed donor consultative group meeting for the
Government's social development program was held in May 1997. This meeting was centered around the
Women's Action Plan. IDA has indicated that if approached by the GOS to provide funding for a multi-sectoral
social development and poverty alleviation intervention, it would consider such a request favorably in the context
of the forthcoming Country Assistance Strategy.
K.    Lessons Learned
32.   The project indicates that reforms can be started and generalized under an investment operation without
conditionalities and budget support, given government commitment and good project design.
33.    Significant lessons for future project work and policy reform can be learned from studies and surveys
funded under an investment operation. This speeds up preparation and appraisal of the next sector credit and
enhances the policy dialogue during the implementation of that investment operation. (Relevant for a variety of
sectoral and multi-sectoral investrnent operations, especially where it is known that government and donors are
going to shift from a project to a program approach).
34.   Intensive Resident Mission and HQ supervision can support implementation of complex, multi-sectoral
projects that also involve decentralization, but this commnitment should be made at the outset. (Relevant for an
increasing number of operations in Africa and LAC as well as other regions).
35.   A well-tailored role for NGOs under government contract can prove very effective and may be both less
expensive and more participatory than direct government implementation. (Especially relevant in the context of
decentralization and deconcentration of service delivery and state disengagement from service provision and
infrastructure management).
36.   Weakness in project design, with no conditions of effectiveness requiring early arrangements for
procurement plans and implementation procedures make subsequent implementation difficult despite earlier
appearances of consensus on key collaborative elements.
37.   Where project success depends on significant redeployment of civil servants concrete human resources
management measures should be included in conditions of effectiveness, and should be taken up in dialogue on
civil service reform under other projects and programs. (Relevant wherever administrative reform and public
sector modernization interventions are also being supported by bilateral or multilateral agencies, including
the IMF).
38.   Including a gender focus in IEC for FP and reproductive health in a multi-sectoral project is effective,
especially when supported by local-level income-generating and literacy activities. If possible, this should also
include targeting a certain proportion of women members of other local-level committees, such as district or sub-
district health commnittees. (Relevant for most projects where significant behavior change is required to achieve
project objectives whether or not these are specifically gender oriented).
39.    Central coordination units in central (non-technical) ministries may be sources of delay and rivalry rather
than--as intended--facilitative of collaboration and increased implementation and disbursement efficiency. The
same may be true of centralized technical support services located in one of several project technical ministries.
Further, when the project ends, PCU management or technical capacity is dispersed, leading to little gain in
institutional capacity or sustainability. Such units are not sustainable and decrease institutionalization of aid
management capacity.



I1
40.   Multi-donor geographical division of multi-sectoral activities, unless coordinated from the preparation
phase on, is likely to complicate rather than to simplify implementation, as differences in technical content,
procedures and component funding levels are introduced.
41.   Including project finding for expatriate technical assistance is less viable in projects than was previously
the case. If government technicians can do work "en regis", they will; if not, they will contract for local TA.
Only if IDA supervision proves that results have not been obtained using this approach will expatriate TA funds
then be spent. (Now increasingly relevant in AFR and other regions as well).
42.    Separate special accounts for different project components may be effective, but do not encourage
coordination. Where there is a central coordination unit with sign-off or clearance authority, even a separate
special account may not lead to quicker disbursement. (Generally true in AFR and elsewhere).
43.   If demand is accurately assessed and accountability measures introduced and monitored, cost recovery
rates for services can increase very quickly. Within five years, decentralized health care centers and their health
committees are recovering an average of 120-130% of recurrent costs apart from salaries of state employees and
amortization of infrastructure.
44.   Addressing key beneficiary groups with demand-driven IEC and service delivery programs, including
counseling, can be extremely effective in environments where cultural prohibitions are prominent. Outreach
dimensions of these same programs can also help to change attitudes and behavior of non-targeted beneficiaries.
(True in multi-ethnic and multi-cultural environments, as well as in those where religious or political factors
constitute a risk for project objective attainment or sustainability).



I



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
..........................................................................  ..................................................................................................... ........................................................
A. Achievement of Obiectives                                                                                                 Substantial                                                Partial                                            Negligible                                           Not applicable
...........................          .................               ............................................................................................................................................................. ...........
Macro Policies                                                                                          i                                                                           0                                                       0 G
......................................................                    ............ ........................................................................................................................................ . ........
Sector Policies                                                                                                               B                                                    03                                                       0                                                          0
.............................................               ...........  ............................................................................................................................................................
Financial Objectives                                                                                                           0 n                                                                                                          0                                                          0
Institutional Development                                                                                                     i0                                                                                                            0                                                          0
Physical Objectives                                                                                     i                                                                           0                                                       0                                                          0
Poverty Reduction                                                                                       .                                                                           0                                                       0                                                          0
i.......................................................                    ............ ....................................................................................................................................... ...........
Gender Issues                                                                                                                 B                                                                                                                                                                        0
Ander Is es 0~~~~~~~~.......   .................. ................... .. no;.............................................................
Other Social Objectives                                                                                                       0                                                    0                                                        0                                                          0
Enviromental Objectives                                                                                                        00 O
Public Sector Management                                                                                                       0                                                    0                                                       0                                                          B
Private Sector Development                                                                                                     03                                                   0                                                       0                                                          B
r                                                                                                                                                                                                  -- ---   ---  --   --- --   -  - ---------------------------- ---------------------- -- ......................................................
Other (specify)                                                                                                               03                                                    0                                                       0                                                          0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................................................................................................. ..................................... 
B. Project Sustainabiliti    Likely                                                                                                                                                                               Unlikel                                                                              Uncertain
I   B                                                                                                    0:
................................................................................................. ..................................................................................................... ....................................................................................
C. Bank Performance                                                                                                                 satisfacto                                                             Satisfactory                                                                              Deficient
i                                                                                  i    ~~~~~(/)                                                                                          (/)                                                                                   (/)i
................................................................   .................................................................................................
Identification                                                                                                           0                                                                                                                                                                        0
Preparation Assistance                                                                                                   0                                                                                                                                                                                   . 0
r................................................................................... ................................................................................
Appraisal                                                                                                                0                                                                                  B                                                                                     0
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Supervision                                                                                                              0                                                                                  B                                                                                     0
....................................................   ....................................................................................
D. Borrower Performance                                                                                                                                  satisfactorv                                        Satisfactory                                           Deficient
(/)                                                 (/)                                                 (/)
3..............................................................                       ....................................................................................................................................................
Preparation                                                                                                                                              0 O                                                                                                     0
;........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...........
Implementation                                                                                                                                           0                                                   B                                                   03
Covenant Compliance                                                                                                                                     0                                                    B                                                   03
Operation (if applicable)                                                                         0'                                                                                                                                                             0
...........................  ...............................................................................................................................................................................................
EE. Assessment of Outcome                                                                                           ig               satisfactor   Satisfactor                                                                      Unsatisfactov    unsatisfactorE
. ................................................................................... . .................................................................................... ........................................................................................................



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
(US$ thousands)
Loan/credit title                    Purpose                 Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
1.Rural Health Project (CR.   Provide technical, logistical and  1982             completed
1310 SE)                  managerial support for Senegal Primary
Health Care
Following operations
1. Endemic Diseases Control  Support Government in its efforts to  1997           Starting
Project                   alleviate the burden of endemic and
epidemic diseases on Senegalese's
populations with, in particular, a reduction
of the burden of malaria, schistomiasis and
onchocerciasis.
2. Integrated Health Sector    Support the Government's health plan and   1998    Appraised
Development Project- SIP-    five year investment program for period
!N PE-2369                1997-2001. Building on analytical work,
SN-PE-2369                policy and institutional reforms initiated
under this completed project, it will help(i)
expanding access and use of health
services(ii) increasing the overall efficiency
of the health care system in mobilization
and use of services.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned               Date Actual/
I                         J      Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Sumnmary)     February 1989             November 1989
Preparation
Appraisal                                       April 1990                June 1990
Negotiations                                    September 1990            February 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                              November 1989
Board Presentation                                                        May 1991
Signing                                                                   January 1992
Effectiveness                                   October 91                 January 92
First Tranche Release (if applicable)           1989
Midterm review (if applicable)                  December 1990             March 1995
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)  March 91
Project Completion                              June 1995                 March 1997
Loan Closing                                    December 1995              March 1997



14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
FY92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY 97
Appraisal Estimate         8,500  21,100     2,700    35,000
Actual                     4,797   11,297    18,190    26,480  31,600
Actual as % of Estimate      56    53.5       55.6      75.6
Date of Final Disbursement   September 29, 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation Indicators in SARW
President's Report                          Estimated               Actual
1. HPNS trained in FP service delivery            360                     720
2. Social agents trained in FO/IlED               384                     364
3. Women trained in fimctional literacy          2000                    3000
4. "Case-foyers" constructed                       30                      30
5. Women's groups receiving equipment             225                     223
6. Demographic and Health survey                    1                      1
7. HPNs trained in HP services management         360                     360
8. DMO2s trained in emnergency surgery             12                      0
9. DMOs trained in practical training zones        10                      0
10. New Hps constructed                            60                     60
11. MCH centers transformed into HPs                4                      4
12. Hpsd receiving an initial stock of drugs      360                     600
13. Nombre d'associations de jounes partenaires    73                     73
au projet
14. Nombre de comites de Sante renouveles         800                     800



15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Extension du partenariat avec les ONGs
2. Processus de d6centralisation des services sanitaires
3. Consolidation de I'accessibilite aux Medicaments essentiels
4. Activites pour augmenter le taux de prevalance Contraceptive
5. Poursuite des activites d'alphabetisation des femmes.
6. Appui des groupements feminins pour les activites d'allegement des travaux.
7. Activitbs d'education a la vie familliale avec les Associations de Jeunes
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study               at Appraisal/Redefined       Status            Impact of Study
1. Politique             Broaden the supply and         completed  The private sector imports generic
pharmaceutique a long    distribution of essential drugs           essential drugs, and the government
tenne                    through the private sector.               will aimed establishes
pharmaceutical norms covering both
public and private sectors.
2. Etude de r6organisation   Reorganisation of the PNA into   completed  The statute is in process of being
de la PNA                an autonomous public entity.              changed.
3. Etudes sur les besoins    Management of Human        completed  Provide information needed to
en personnel.                                                      prepare the PND and the SIP
4. Etude sur les besoins en  Management of Human        completed  Provided infor to prepare a Human
formation.                                                         Resources Plan
5. Etude du Secteur      Reform of the hospital system  completed  Provide information permitting the
hospitalier.                                                       restructuration of the hopital system
6. Etude sur le          Development of a sector        completed  Projection of financing needs for the
financement du secteur de   financing plan                         next 5 years.
la Sante
7. Etude sur le schema   Restructure the budgetary      completed
budg6taire               system.
8. Etude sur la          Establish a maintenance policy    completed  Provided a cost analysis on various
maintenance des                                                    levels of the health pyramid.
equipements hospitaliers
9. Etude sur les normes  Establish standards to improve    completed
hospitalieres et les services  planning mechanisms for health
specialis6s              facilities.



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Esfimate (US$M)  Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign    Total
Item                               Costs   Costs             Costs    Costs
1.Civil works                                           9.4                          9.9
2. Vehicules, Equipment and materials                   7.0                          6.8
3.Furniture                                             0.8                          0.6
4. Drugs                                                2.8                          4.5
5. Consultants                                          4.4                          2.7
6. Training                                             2.2                          2.6
7. Incremental operating costs                          2.6                          2.4
8. Refimding of PPF                                     0.8                          0.6
9. Unallocated                                          5.0                          0.0
TOTAL                                                  35.0                         30
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local    Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign   Total
Source                Costs     Costs                   Costs    Costs
BRD/IDA                  10.5       24.5          35
Cofinancing Insl;itution            none
Other External Sources              none
Domestic Contribution     2.9           -          2.9
TOTAL                   13.4        24.5        37.9
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
During Project Preparation, no economic rate of return (ERR) or net present value of the project was
prepared. Therefore there is no baseline with which to compare actual estimates.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Human Resources Development Project I( Credit 2255 SE)
Agreement   Section  Covenant   Present     Original    Revised                   Description of                                  Comments
type      status    fulfillment  fulfillment                 covenant
date       date
Dev. Credit  3.01 (a)  5       C            1992                   The Borrower declares it commitment to the    Overall the Goverment was committed to the
Agreernent                                                         objectives of the project as set forth in schedule 2 to  objectives of the project and has taken all actions and
this agreemnent and, to this end, shall carry out the   measures required for its imnplementation
project with diligence and efficiency
3.01(b)  5        C           during the              The borrower shall carry out the project in   Work program and budgets for each year have been
project life           accordance with the implementation program set  prepared in accordance with implementation program
forth in schedule 4 to this agreement.
3.02     5        C           during the              Procurement of the goods, works and           Procurement plans for the civil works, goods and
project life           consultants'services required for the project and to be services have been implemented in conformance with
financed out of the proceeds of the credit shall be    schedule 3.
governed by the provisions of schedule 3 to this
agreement
4.01     1        C           during the              Maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect  Accounting procedures have been established and
project life           in accordance with sound accounting practices  have worked well
4.01(b)   I       C                                   Have records and accounts referred to the paragraph  independent auditor selected
(A) of this section in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association
4.01 (i)  I       C           6 month after           Furnish 6 months after the end of each year a  MOHSA budget presentation was revised accordingly
the end of             certified copy of the report of such audit by said
each fiscal            auditors
year



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Human Resources Development Project I( Credit 2255 SE)
Agreement   Section  Covenant   Present      Original    Revised                   Description of                                 Comments
type      status    fulfillment  fulfillment                 covenant
date       date
4.01 (ii)   I       C          Project Life            Furnish to the association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the association shall form time to time
reasonably request
4.01 (iii)  2                  project life            For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the credit account were made on
the basis of statement of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
4.01C     2                    Project Life            maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01 C(i)  2                                           retain, until at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal form was made, all records
evidencing such expenditures;
4.01 C(ii) 2                   Project life            Enable the Association representative to examine
such records, and
4.01 C(iii) I                  every six               Ensure that every six months said auditors furnish to
months                 the Association an opinion as to whether the SOE
submitted during such period can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
4.02                           Every Year              To increase MOHSA's percentage share of the
Goverunent's recurrent budget to 5.25% during
FY91-92, to 5.75% during FY93, to 6.25% during
FY 94, to 6.75% during FY95 and 7.25% during
FY96;



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Human Resources Development Project I( Credit 2255 SE)
Agreement   Section  Covenant   Present      Original    Revised                   Description of                                  Comments
type      status    fulfillment  fulfillment                  covenant
date       date
4.02 (ii)  2       1992                                To revise the presentational form of MOHSA's
budget to clearly delineate drug and material
allocations for the 45 districts of Senegal starting
with the budget law for FY 91-92
4.02 (iii) 5                                           To ensure that total drugs and material allocations to
the 45 districts shall be at least 1.5 million FCAF in
FY91-92, 1.1 million FCFA in FY93, subsequently,
such allocation shall increase annually by at least
10% in real terms through FY96.
Covenant types:
1. = Accounts/audits                                                              8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project fimds                                      10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                                                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency                      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6. = Enviromnental covenants                                                     13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:                                                                  CP  =  complied with partially
C  =  covenant complied with                                                     NC = not complied with
CD  complied with after delay



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
BORROWER COMPLIED WIH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                               Planned             Revised          Actual
Project Cycle                                                   _      l  _
Weeks      US$    Weeks    US$  Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                 N/A      N/A       N/A      N/A    148.7   309.9
Appraisal-Board                          N/A      N/A       N/A      N/A      64.1   138.2
Negotiations through Board Approval      N/A       N/A      N/A      N/A    19-9    44.5
Supervision                              46.5               46.8            159.8    293.7
Completion                               22                  10              10.0     31.4
TOTAL                                                                      402.5



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized     Implem-      Devpt    Types of
Stage of    Month/      of     Days in      Staff Skills    entation    Objectives  Problems
Project Cycle    Year    Persons    Field      Represented       Status
Through         05/88    2         7         PS,PHS                _          _
Appraisal       12/88    3         5         OS,E,A
02/89    4         20       E, ED
07189    N/A       N/A      N/A
12/89    8         18       C, E, N, PS, PF
Appraisal       07/90    20                  PF, AF, PF, AF,      -           -           -
through Board                                A, SP
Approval
Supervision     02/92    3                   PHS, PrS              2           1
10/92    3                  PHS, PS               2           1
06/93    4                  PS, PHS, E, HS        3           1
11/93    1                  PS                    3           2
06/94    5                  CS, HS, PS, E         3           S
10-94    2                  HS, PS                S           S
02-95    3                  HS, PS, PHS           S           S
10/95    3                  HS, PrS,              S           S
06/96    2                  HS, PS, AC, HS        S           S
Completion      02/97    5                   PrS, HS, PS, HS,     -           -           _
SA
PS; population specialist - PrS; Procurement Specialist - CS; Communities Specialist - HS; Health
Specialist- PHS; Public Health Specialist - E; Economist - AC; Audit Coordinator; SA- Socio-
Antropologist, C - Coordinateur, A-Architecte, CS - Consultant, N-Nutritioniste, PF - Promotion
des femmes, AF -Alphab6tisation Fonctionelle, Al- Aspects Institutionels, PF - Plannification
Familiale, SP - Sante Publique.



22                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
Republique du S&ndgal
Pirojet de Developpement des Ressources Humaines I
Population et SantW
Aide m6moire
Mission de Supervision
12 fWvrier au 06 mars 1997
1.    Introduction
1.1   M. Anwar Bach-Baouab, charge du Projet de Developpement des Ressources
Humaines (PDHR I), Mme Alice Morton, Messieurs Alassane Diawara et Abdou Salam
Drabo ont effectue une mission de supervision dudit projet du 12 fevrier au 6 mars 1997.
M. Bernard Abeille s'est joint a la mission pour participer a ses travaux sur les procedures
de gestion. La mission a eu des seances de travail avec les responsables des differents
volets du projet et a 6te recue en audience par Son excellence Mme Aminara Mbengue
Ndiaye - Ministre de la Femme, de l'Enfant et de la Famille, Son excellence Me Ousmane
Ngom - Ministre de la Sante Publique et de l'Action Sociale, M., Ousmane Ndiaye,
Directeur de Cabinet du Ministre de la Jeunesse et des Sports, et par M. Lamine Diouf,
Conseiller aupres de M4. le Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan. La mission a
.galement rencontre IA. Moustapha Ka, Vice-President de l'Assemblee Nationale avec
lequel elle s'est entretenue de la prochaine tenue a Dakar du colloque des parlementaires
de la sous-region et les representants des organisations multilat6rales et bilaterales pour un
tour d'horizon sur le developpement du secteur de la Sante. La liste des personnes
rencontr6es figure en annexe.
1.2   La mission presente ses vifs remerciements a l'ensemble des personnes rencontrees
pour la chaleur de leur accueil et la cooperation apportee au deroulement de la mission. Le
present aide-memoire resume les conclusions et recommandations de la mission. Son
contenu sera confirme par la representation residente a Dakar de la Banque mondiale
2.    Objectifs de la mission
Les objectifs de la mission etaient de (i) faire le point sur l'execution du PDRH I; (ii)
d'identifier les actions residuelles qui pourraient aboutir avant la cl6ture du projet; et (iii)
faire avancer le processus de preparation du rapport d'achevement du projet. La mission a
saisi l'opportunite de sa presence a Dakar pour faire egalement le point de 1'etat
d'avancement du Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire (PNDS) et du Programme
d'Investissement Sectoriel (PIS).



23                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
3.    Contexte General de la Mission
3.1    Cette mission constitue la derniere mission de supervision du projet avant sa
cl8ture prevue pour le 31 mars 1997, apres deux prolongations successives d'une annee et
de trois mois portant sur la periode du lerjanvier 1996 au 31 mars 1997. Ces
prolongations reposaient essentiellement sur le fait que de nombreuses activites etaient tres
avancees et qu'il etait necessaire de les parachever et de mettre en place des actions pour
en consolider les resultats positifs. La mission a porte egalement sur l'examen des rapports
provisoires d'evaluation prepar6s par la partie sen6galaise et l'elaboration du rapport
d'achevement du PDRH I. L'examen des documents provisoires du PDNS et du
Programme PIS ainsi que l'etat d'avancement des actions preparatoires a la prochaine
mission d'evaluation de ce dernier ont fait l'objet d'entretiens separes tout en mettant en
exergue les enseignements a tirer de l'execution du PDRH I.
4.    Etat d'avancement du PDRH I
4.1    D'une maniere generale, la mission estime que le PDRH I a atteint ses objectifs de
developpement malgre les contraintes qui sont apparues durant la premiere annee de sa
mise en oeuvre. Les activites et les resultats tres positifs des quatre principales
composantes du projet ont et passees en revue au cours des seances de travail avec les
responsables des cellules de coordination et de suivi du projet. Leur synthese et les
enseignements tirbs de leur execution feront l'objet d'un rapport d'achevement conjoint du
projet. Dans le cadre de ces rencontres, la mission a souligne que des mesures
particulieres d'accompagnement devront 8tre prises pour assurer la perennite des actions
du projet. La mission a note avec beaucoup de satisfaction le meme souci aupres des
autorites s6negalaises. En raison de la cl6ture prochaine du projet, la mission a egalement
insiste pour que l'ensemble des activites residuelles puissent 8tre achev6es avant le 31
mars 1997. Elle a clairement indique que la date du 31 mars fait reference a l'execution
des activites et non a l'engagement des depenses et a encourage l'administration du projet
a veiller a ce que cette contrainte soit bien prise en compte, a l'exception d'un personnel
restreint, charg6 d'expedier les affaires courantes et d'assurer les paiements dans les trois
mois qui suivent la date de cloture.
4.2   Enfin, au cours des rencontres avec les differents participants au PDRH I la
mission a pu noter un interet marque pour la poursuite d'une cooperation avec la Banque
dans le domaine du d6veloppement humain. A ce propos il a ete convenu de poursuivre la
reflexion pour arr8ter une vision et definir le cadre de cette cooperation a la lumiere des
actions que le gouvernement envisage d'entreprendre dans le cadre du plan de lutte contre
la pauvrete, des plans d'actions de developpement de la femme et des jeunes et du
Programme d'Actions Prioritaires en matiere de Population (PAIP) en cours
d'elaboration.



24                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
4.3    Composante Sante
Malgr6 des delais comsiderables, a part deux volets cibles, toutes les interventions on tete
achev6es a 100% y inclus la construction ou la refection de 60 postes de sante et des 4
centres de sante, la constitution de stock initial de medicaments pour les districts sanitaires
menant une meilleur disponibilite en medicaments et produits essentiels apres la
reorganisation de la PNA, le renforcement des comites de sante, et le recouvrement des
couts. En moyenne, les 60 postes de sante recouvrent entre 100% et 130% de leurs frais
recurrents a part les d6penses d'infrastructures et les salaires des agents de l'Etat. Des
conventions ont 6te signees avec trois ONGs pour appuyer le volet IEC/PH. En matiere de
formation en PF des chefs de postes, des superviseurs et des formateurs en nutrition, les
cibles ont meme ete depassees. Seul le programme de formation en chirurgie d'urgence et
l'affectation de deux medecins par centre de sante n'ont pas ete effectifs. Meme si le taux
de prevalence contraceptive par rapport aux methodes modernes n'est passe qu'a 9% en
1995 au lieu de 14% e scompte, le changement en termes de couverture est appreciable, et
l'acces, l'utilisation et la qualite des services sont notables, et permettent d'apprecier
1'existence d une integration des activites du paquet minimum devolu au poste de sante.
4.4    Composante Population
4.4.1 Sous composante "Promotion du Statut de la Femme"
Cette sous-composante est basee sur des etudes du milieu qui ont permis la
selection des 223 groupements feminins beneficiaires de l'appui du projet, qui ont exprimes
leurs besoins en matiere de formation et d'appui en equipements d'allegement des travaux.
Pour le volet "Alphabetisation fonctionnelle", apres la conception de manuels et la
formation des 446 alphabetisatrices choisies parmi les groupements, 50 monitrices, plus de
3.000 femmes maltrisent la lecture, 1'ecriture et le calcul dans les 4 langues nationales. Pour
le volet technologies appropriees pour I'allegement du travail des femmes, et la generation
de revenus pour les groupements, 225 moulins, batteuses et autres equipements de
transformation de produits agricoles ont ete fournis aux groupements, et le beneficiaires ont
recu une formation technique et en gestion. Les comptes bancaires ont et ouverts par les
groupements. En plus., les groupements ont beneficie de formation des auxiliaires en LEC,
et les causeries en IEC se font sur le terrain bases sur 26 themes relatifs a la SMI, PF,
1'environnement et A la legislation. Un film sur les grossesses rapprochees, et des spots
entre autres materiaux multi-mediatiques ont ete concus. Apres un retard significatif, la
construction de 30 cases-foyers par l'AGETIP a ete r6alis6e, et le materiel et equipement
sont en voie de livraison. Dans la meme convention avec l'AGETIP, les fonds pour la
post-alphabetisation et le financement des projets d'accompagnements pour les activites a
but lucratif sont assures et detailles dans le rapport d'achevement.



25                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
4.4.2 Sous composante "Promotion des Jeunes"
Pour atteindre les objectifs d'informer, de sensibiliser et d'eduquer les membres de 73
associations de jeunes selectionnes dans les localites urbaines et peri-urbaines en matiere
de sante reproductive et PF, l'USC jeunes a elabore, en collaboration avec tous ses
partenaires un programme d'IEC en PF, et plus gen6ralement un programme d'education
a la vie familiale (EVF) utiisant plusieurs medias et approches, et base sur une etude
CAT. En plus, le programme a soutenu les activites participatives des associations et
ONGs menant des actions sinilaires, et la rehabilitation des CDEPS et des foyers de
jeunes. La formation en IEC, EVF, gestion, formulation de projets, communication avec
les adolescents, manipulation d'appareils audiovisuels, et l'approche MASRP pour definir
les besoins ont et octroyees aux agents du MJS et au 146 "jeunes relais". Des
equipements audiovisuels ont et fournis au CDEPS et foyers choisis et 2 foyers et 9
CDEPS ont et rehabilit6s. Apres la revue a mi-parcours, certaines activites du
programme ont ete elargies pour inclure d'autres associations en milieu rural, et les 73
associations prealables ont elargi leurs activites pour encourager des associations dans
d'autres quartiers. L'experience des centres-conseils avec "hot lines"(ecoute au
telephone) est a suivre de tres pres, ainsi que l'appropriation des activites soutenues par le
projet avec les associations impliquees. L'analyse de la deuxieme etude CAO devrait
faciliter la consolidation des acquis de cette sous- composante par le MJS et les
associations.
4.4.3 Sous composante "Renforcement Institutionnel du Programme
National de Population"
Les activites de cette sous-composante sont centrees sur deux axes. Des etudes et
recherches en matiere de population, et le suivi et 'e6valuation de la mise en oeuvre de la
politique nationale de population. Trois etudes ont e  achevees sur differents themes,
ciblant l'impact du milieu familial sur le comportement des adolescents, l'impact des
groupements feminins dans le processus migratoire du bassin arichidier, et des centres de
decision dans divers groupes ethniques en matiere de PF entre autres. APAP/Senegal
mene une etude sur l'impact des perspectives alternatives de la mise en oeuvre des
politiques et programmes de population. L'axe suivi et l'evaluation du PNP a inclus une
etude evaluative du PNP en 1995, et a contribue a l'elaboration du deuxieme PAIP.
Plusieurs seminaires inter-regionaux ont ete animes pour sensibiliser des cadres et des
autorites administratives. D'autres seminaires a l'intention des parlementaires, des
joumalistes et des leaders religieux ont abouti a l'emergence de reseaux en population et
developpement qui contribuent a la promotion de la politique de population.
4.5   Activites de l'UCP
L'UCP a eu pour charge principale:
- d'assurer le secretariat du Comite Interministeriel



26                              ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
- de g6rer le compte special A
- de cordonner la production des documents d'ensemble du projet
- de superviser et de coordonner les activites de suivi
- d'assurer la liaison avec les bailleurs de fonds.
Au plan de l'organisation et de l'integration des activites, les realisations ci-dessous ont
ete faites pour combler certains vides constates dans la structuration du projet:
- la signature d'un arret6 interministeriel fixant les relations entre l'UCP et les USC
et creant en meme ternps le groupe technique intercomposante
- l'institutionnalisation de cellules regionales inter-composante pour garantir la
synergie des equipes sur le terrain
- l'institutionnalisation de tournees annuelles intersectorielles dans les regions pour
le suivi en commun des activites du projet
- la mise en place d'un comite technique de coordination des activites IEXC.
En ce qui conceme la gestion administrative, des instruments servant d'appui a la gestion
administrative et financi6re du projet ont ete mis au point. II s'agit d'un manuel de
proc6dures regissant le projet, d'une instruction sur la decentralisation financiere de la
composante sante, de la mise en place d'un systeme comptable et d'un logiciel de suivi
budgetaire, et enfin de la signature d'un marche d'audit des comptes du projet et de
conventions de maitrise d'ouvrage d6legue pour la realisation du volet genie civil des
sous-composantes "jeunes" et "femmes" apres leur accord pour confier a l'AGETIP cette
operation.
4.6    Coordination du Projet
Etant donne la nature multisectorielle des objectifs et interventions du projet, une structure
de coordination assez lourde a ete mise en place pour rapprocher les programmes executes
par les quatre ministeres impliques, et aussi pour faciliter le volet gestion financiere et de
passation de marches.
Les trois sous-prograrnmes d'IEC en population ont aussi ete orient6s vers le SNEP pour
une meilleure coordination et rapidite de production de supports apres une experience
prealable de separation par secteur.
Les intervenants, sous le guide d'un comite interministeriel qui n'a presque pas fonctionne
ont cree un groupe technique inter-composante pour appuyer les actions de l'unite de
coordination du projet (I'UCP) au MEFP. Malgre la volonte de coordonner et
d'harmoniser les actions des composantes a travers les unites de soutien de coordination
(USC) de chaque ministere cette coordination s'est averee tres difficile.



27                             ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
La passation de marches, la gestion des comptes speciaux, les volets de genie civile, ont
tous pos6s problemes tout au long de l'execution du projet comme il ressort dans les
rapports d'evaluation de l'UCP.
La collaboration entre les USC et l'UCP n'a pas toujours evolue dans le sens souhaite, et
la collaboration sur le terrain n'a pas toujours eu lieu, malgre le programme assez intensif
de suivi et d'evaluation poursuivi par les unites de coordination, y inclus l'UCP. Malgre
ces contraintes et problemes, les objectifs et les activites cibles par le projet sont acheves
en grande partie et les activites residuelles s'executeront d'ici la cldture du credit. De
bonnes reactions des responsables apres la revue a mi-parcours, soutenus par une
supervision intensive et collaborative de l'IDA au niveau de la Mission residente et du
Siege ont permis d'atteindre ces performances.
5.    Le PNDS et le PIS
5.1   La mission a pu constater des avancees significatives dans l'elaboration des
documents du PNDS et du PIS. La formulation des dix strategies de developpement
socio-sanitaires retenues dans le document provisoire du PNDS est claire, toutefois la
mission estime qu'il y a lieu d'ameliorer la couverture dans ce document des actions qui
devront etre prises pour le renforcement institutionnel a tous les niveaux et la
r.organisation du ministere dans le cadre de la politique de decentralisation. A ce propos,
la mission a insiste aupres des autorites pour qu'elles privilegient la qualite des documents
par rapport a l'urgence qui parait souhaitee de tenir au plus vite une reunion des bailleurs
de fonds.
5.2   La mission a participe a la reunion des bailleurs de fonds organisee par le MSPAS
pour une lecture commune des documents provisoires du PNDS et du PIS. Elle a pris
note avec satisfaction de la decision de faire en sorte que les observations et les
commentaires des bailleurs de fonds fassent l'objet d'une correspondance conjointe
coordonnee par la Delegation de l'Union Europeenne. La mnission a pris note egalement
de la disposition favorable des bailleurs de fonds d'harmoniser autant que possible, leurs
mecanismes d'appui au budget de fonctionnement des structures decentralisees du
MSPAS.
5.3   La mission estime que la date de la premiere semaine d'avril 1997, pressentie par le
MSPAS pour reunir une consultation des bailleurs de fonds pourrait etre maintenue. Cela
necessite toutefois que les documents finalises du PNDS et du PIS ainsi que la lettre de
politique sectorielle soient distribues au plus tard a la mi-mars 1997. L'objet de cette
reunion de consultation formelle avec les bailleurs de fonds partenaires est d'obtenir un
consensus et un engagement des partenaires le plus large possible.



28                             ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
5.4   Les procedures de gestion du PIS
La mission a reitere l'urgence de proceder prealablement a la prochaine mission
d'evaluation, la preparation d'un projet de manuel des procedures, d'un programme et
d'un budget detaille des activites pour les trois premieres annees d'activites, d'un projet de
plan de passation des niarches, et d'une proposition de plan de financement pour les
deux premieres annees du PIS, conformement aux recommandations de la mission de pre-
evaluation et a la note technique annexee a l'aide-memoire de cette m8me mission. Ces
dossiers devront etre prepar6s a la lumiire de la nomenclature interne de budget
fonctionnel du MSPAS. Dans cette perspective le MSPAS s'est engage a:
(i)   recruter le consultant choisi pour 1'6laboration du projet de manuel de
procedures avant la mi-mars 1997;
(ii)  finaliser un projet de plan de passation des marches des deux premieres
annees avant la fin du mois d'avril 1997;
(iii)  proposer un organigramme des structures de suivi, d'evaluation et de gestion
du PIS avant la fin du mois d'avril 1997;
(iv)   mettre au point une banque de donnees de specifications techniques des
fournitures standards et equipements;
(v)   finaliser les normes des infrastructures et les presenter dans des tableaux
separes pour chaque niveau de soins, y compris pour les hopitaux.
(vi)   Affiner la strategie de maintenance suivant les recommandations de la mission
de pre-evaluation (voir annexe de l'aide memoire)
5.5   Participation des ONG et des Communautes a la politique de sante et
d'action sociale
La mission a eu plusieurs rencontres avec le CONGAD, le collectif des
ONG au Senegal, les representants des agences de cooperation bilat6rale et
multilaterale partenaire, le Ministere de la Sante Publique et de I'Action
sociale dans l'esprit de la concertation continue et la recherche du
consensus qui a toujours caracterise l'approche dans la preparation du
Programme d'Investissement sectoriel (PIS),. La mission se rejouit de la
creation du Reseau Sant&SIDA/Population compose d'ONG membres et
non membres du CONGAD. Ce reseau est le lien entre les ONG
partenaires A la mise en oeuvre du PJS et aura un r6le tres important dans
la consolidation du Partenariat entre le MSPAS et les ONG au Senegal. La
mission a, enregistre avec satisfaction le courant d'echanges qui s'etablit
deji entre le Reseau et le Secretariat permanent du PNDS.



29                            ANNEX I
Page 8of8
v     agences de cooperation bilaterale et multilat6rale de soutenir le processus
*     de partenariat entre le MSPAS et les ONG. La mission constate neanmoins
qu'il reste beaucoup a faire quant a la creation de la structure de
coordination et la formulation des modalites pratiques de la participation
des ONG a la mise en oeuvre du PIS.



30                               ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
IM'LEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC DU SENEGAL
CREDIT 2255-SN
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
1.     Project Coordination and Management
The difficulties encowuered during the project implementation were linked to the project's
historic context or to the lengthy nature of government and World Bank procedures. This has
represented a considerable constaint during the first two years of the project's life, hampering both the
Population and Health comnponents and the work of the PCU itself. This difficulties comprised:
the one year's delay in project startup noted as an obvious constraint right back at the time of the
project launching workshop, in March 1992. Delays were also anticipated as a result of the
lengthy process of international bidding to procure the capital goods required for the project
activities. According to the procurement plans, normally prepared upstream prior to credit
effectiveness, but which had only just started by the date of the above-mentioned seminar, the
bid proceedings were expected to last at least a year,;
*     the time taken to install the PCU and the CSUs for the Population component and to hire staff
for example, by Jume 1992, the PCU responsible for project coordination still had no official
address;
*     the delays in fudfliing the conditionalities for funding the special accounts (no funding until June
1992);
*      certain unforeseen circumstances which delayed completion of the procurement plans (rejection
by the CNCA, etc.;);
*      suspension of credit withdrawals durng the first years of project implementation, but not
directly related to the PDRH1;
*     the devaluation of the CFAF, which in 1994 paralyzed contract performance for seven months,
and therefore the withdrawals, with the delayed publication of the circular on the principles of
contract updating.
This picture is compounded by the problems caused by the allocative key whereby 75% of
opering expenses were to be covered out of the IDA credit and 25% out of Senegalese counterpart
funds. This key was a factor in holding up procurement. Because of delays in payment of the 25%
portion of the invoices certrin suppliers and service providers refused outright to have anythiig to do
with the project.



31                               ANNEX II
Page2 of 7
Another problem was the low level of the cap on special account A, CFAF 75,000,000 before
devaluation, when four units were drawing from it. This low cap had an adverse effect on the pace of
withdrawal and on the size of the expenses that could be handled by the special account.
the difficulties of mobilizing counterpart finding, and inadequacy of that funding.
The principal constraint encountered by the PCU in performing its role as coordinator was the
rejection of the institutional fiamework and the resultant continuing disputes. This problem, which dates
from the PDRH1 appraisal missions and the IDA negotiations, resurficed during the project launhing
workshops despite signature of the Credit Agre,ment, when certain CSUs demanded the right to
autonomous management of their component. This was the motivation for the Intenninisterial
Committee meeting, chaired by the Prime Minister, in June 1992, and during the five pilot years
represented a constant stumbling block for the PCU, since its authority was constantly being disputed.
The Prime Minister had given firm instructions concerning compliance with the Credit Agreement.
At this level, one of the PCU's difficulties involved relations with the CSUs, noncompliance with
certain working principles, such as the meeting of deadlines for the filing of mission reports, submission
of requests, budgets, activities programs, contract documents, and other elements requested by the Bank
in its aide-memoires and whose availability on time was important because of procedural constraints
involving the participation of other actors. This led to constant deviations from the mutually agreed
programming. Nonperformance of various roles in the procurement process was also a problem on
occasion. The quarterly withdrawal plans suggested by the Bank to enable the PCU to prepare estimated
cash budgets were no longer drawn up.
Finally, to ensure the sustainability of decision making authority and of operation of the
programs, it was recommended that each CSU would have an Assistant Director appointed by
ministerial decree. This was not the case in any of the units.
Organization of World Bank Supervision
Relations with the Bank were good and very constructive on the whole. Especially appreciated
were the openness and availability of the supervisor in Dakar and the project officer in Washington, who
throughout the project were very objective listeners and made valuable suggestions that helped to ward
off stunbling blocks and resolve problems. However, three difficulties should be highlighted:
*      As stated during the mid-term review, the need for IDA non objection for specific
activities, when detailed work programs and budgets were prepared and approved each year, was a
factor contributing to credit withdrawal delays;
*      The PCU had some difficulty in playing its role as coordinator. Contacts between the
Bank and the CSUs were often direct, bypassing the PCU and undermining its role of serving as liaison
between the parties;



32                               ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
With respect to the health component, the PCU sometimes received IDA non-objection
concernng activilies on which the CSU had never ciscussed and coordinated with the PCU
in advance;
The Bank mission of June 1996 refused to deal with problems of micro-management and
authorized greater flexibility in the non objection requirement, for exaffple by leaving it to the
project to decide dir-ecdy on IEC contracts and certain other small contracts.
2.     Project Performance
The health CSU had no supporting institutional structure. Moreover, the skills levels available
were inadequate given the importance of the work it was called upon to do. Its workload was managed
by two key individuals, the technical director and the civil engineer.
Health Component
1.    The PDHR1 has resulted in restructuring and rationalization of the health systemn and in the
design and implementation of reforms necessary to the development of the health sector.
2.     The development of a pharmaceutical policy and the promotion of essential drugs have come
about thanks to the project's support.
3.     Technical upgrading of the health posts (HPs) and health centers (HICs) has led to improved
service delivery.
4.     Community participation has speeded up thanks to the project, which supported the reform of
the rules governing the health committees, trained the members of those committees, and developed IEC
at all levels.
5.     Decentralized plarnng (with preparation of the PDDSIPDRDS) became a reality tanks to the
project.
6.     Health coverage in the urban areas has improved considerably, particularly in Dakar, Thies and
Diourbel, tianks to the civil engineering program. Dakar, home to 30% of the country's population, was
practically without any health posts or first-level reference centers, so that bottleneck situations
frequenty occurred at the hospitals.
7.     The contraceptive prevalence rate has improved, particularly in the rural area, with extension of
FP planning activities to over 500 health posts in the country's ten regions.
8.    FP contracts signed with NGOs showed good performance, and their contributions to execution
of the NFPP are very significant.
9.     Thanks to its refonn, PNA is becoming a vital institution once again.



33                                ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
10. The MRs and health districts, supported by the HRDP, have stepped up their efforts in the area
of training of district and regional framework teams [equipes cadres].
11.    Budgetary reform, including a new nomenclature, has enabled the districts to inprove their
budgets considerably, thanks to increases of 0.50/o, and the share of the health budget in the national
budget and an increase in the districts' equipment.
12.    Thanks to studies financed by the HRDP, MOHSA will be able to consolidate its reforms over
the short or medium term.
Population Component
Promoting the Status of Women
Performance may be assessed at three levels:
At the level of activities Dlannins. irenaration and imnlementation, we can note that the human
resources provided by the Government have been utilized optimally, and that they have an in depth
knowledge of the environment and solid experience in the inplementation of similar projects. The
specialists have been used whenever needed and the experience gained from other projects and programs
in the sector has been capitalized. Anew approach has been developed through a preliminary
environmental survey. A new action strategy for literacy campaigns has been implemente, which results
n the first-time organization of a single-level training cycle of less than 18 months and the development
of women's skills to enable them to become millers or mechanics.
Regarding the involvement and responsibility of women in imnlementation of the component. We
can count a total of 3,000 women with responsible positions on the management committees, 446
village literacy teachers and 446 IEC auxiliaries.
This represents a hard core (17 persons/women's group [GPF]) capable of sustaining and developing the
project's achievements.
Among other aspects we note a substantial financial and material contributions from women:
CFAF 50 million for shelter construction, the signature of memoranda of agreement between the CSU
and GPFs clearly spelling out the relationships arnong all institutions involved and the involvemnent of
women in the construction of cases-foyers.
The last level is the percentage of completion of project activities. Over 90% of the planned activities
have been completed and all physical investments have taken place, as well as the major part of the
training program for supervisors and beneficiaries.
Reaching Young Men and Women
In relation with this component, we noted a considerable improvement in opcration of the
associations, thanks to the training and equipment received. This improvement has resulted in



34                               ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
more efficient administrative and financial management and a diversification of activities. The credilitiy
of the Association has been enhanced in enhanced credibility of the associations in the eyes of the
Govemment, the NGOs, the authorities, and the parents, who are consequently paying greater attention
to the associations' activilies, particularly in the area of Family Life Education (FLE).
With respect to Ministry of Youth and Sports (MYS) workers and institutions, the project has
strengthened the workers' capacities for effective action and also resulted   increased attendance at, and
greater involvement by, the CDEPS and young people's centers Voyers desjeunes].
Thanks to the tniung received, MYS personnel have acquired skills in managemet, planing,
and monitoring of FLE/'IEC programs.
The results thus obtained have encouraged the MYS to include FLE/IEC training modules in its
leadership training programs.
RLPNP
While few in number, the studies carried out have brought to light interesting facts concerning
the detemining factors of population growth from the anthropological and cultural viewpoints (Dimbas
study), and information on adolescent concerns about fertility. At the political level, expansion of the
partners to include the h;lan and Populaton Network (RIP), the research institutes, and universities,
with the setting up of the Consultative Committee on Research, and the sensitization campaigns directed
at the COREPORHs and basic organizations to increase their awareness of population-related
phenomna, should also be emphasized. Lastly, the evaluation of population policy and programs
contained in the APAP/SENEGAL and DIAGNEISARRISECK studies provides very useful analyses
that can serve as a guide for future actions.
3.     Overall Project Coordination
Two basic objectives of the PCU in its day-to-day activities were to give the CSUs the
necessary operating resources and to perform its management role, keeping an eye on the need to comply
with both government and Bank procedures while ensuring transparency and a good percentage of credit
withdrawal.
With respect to the first of those two basic objectives, the PCU has largely achieved its goal, if
we look at the project's beneficiary population and impact at the national and regional level. Illustrations
are provided by the CSUs' own reports.
For example, the Promotion of Women's Status CSU notes on page 21 of its evaluation report
that "90 percent of the results expected from the component, despite the innovative approach, the
project's complexity, and ithe time taken, have been achieved," adding that "all material investments have
been made or are in process of being made, as is the case with most of the training program for
supervisors and the target female audience."



35                               ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
On page 29 of the report of the Young Men and Women's CSU, we find: "Given the results of the
evaluation, it is true to say that the project objectives have to a certain extent been broadly achieved."
Reports given by target groups, regional authorities, local elected officials, and political
authorities both at the evaluation workshops and to the press also bear witness to the project's success.
With respect to the second basic objective, the percentage of withdrawal of the credit proceeds
was over 90 percent. Shortfills in certain categories were compensated through reallocations.
Project audits were generally submitted on time, and to date the project accounts have been
regularly certified without reservation by the auditors. The report of the Inspection Genirale d'Etat on
administraive and financial management of the project has not given rise to any major problems.
Having acquired the necessary skills in the accounting and budgetary software, the project accountants
are now able to keep up to the minute checks on all the project accounts.
In addition, the special field trips [tourn6es] and CRDs have considerably expanded the project's
target audience and popularity. At certain times during the life of the project, when various programs
had fallen so far behind that the Bank was considering restructuring their appropriations, the PCU was
able to intervene vigorously, helping restore equilibrium and bringing the activities back on track.
For example, it helped to reactivate the Young Men and Women's CSU regional teams and get
the support of group's activities going again, after it was tom apart by internal disorders between 1992
and 1994.
Another aspect reactivated by the PCU was EEC, long one of the project's weak points; this
helped reestablish the linkage between the Population and Health comnponents and to complete the
agremnt that were to be signed with the media. Currently, with the assignment of a new EPS
Director, productions and broadcasts are progressing normally. This has is now opened the way for
active intgration of FP/IEC, something that the project is successfully working on, and which has
always been a problem at the multisectoral level.
With respect to sectoral inter-team synergy at the regional level, a successful outcomes are
clearly discenible and visiting missions have noted effective integration at that target levels, particularly
in the area of FP/1EC.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Regardless of the constraints that have ansen, the project's success and popularity and the
achievement of its objectives are acknowledged by all. Its very real impact on the target groups may be
gauged by the positive behavioral changes already noted in the female population and in young men and
women, by the improvement in health coverage indicators, thanks to a strengthening of the health
infiastructure network, availability of drugs, and technical upgrading of



36                               ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
regional health facilities as well as m the conmunity participation m the health effort; and the
introduction of decentralized planning.
The following nrconunendations should also be reviewed:
The first recommendation was made by all parties, including target groups, regional authonties,
local elected officials, and field workers, on the occasion of the evaluation seminars, field trips [toumees]
and CRDs, namely that the project be reinserted into the fiamnework of its original objectives and be
expanded to include all the regions;
Another unanimous recommendation was to ensure consolidation of the project gains at all
levels including, literacy and IEC for women; deepening of FLE traimning of young men and women and
extension of this aspect within the rural populations, taking into account young people's socioeconomic
needs; and improving health coverage and continuation of efforts to control maternal and infant/child
mortality, etc.
The issue of the institutional famnework has to be dealt with by the political authorities, and
given the problems it has caused during this pilot phase, it will need to be assessed in light ofthe choices
made.






SENEGAL
MAURITANIA                                             SENEGAL
ai}at'a                                 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rivers                                      P ROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES
~ C onic dre a nne (         f  ,.  /   .......... /o  ,/4  Xha   ,   ,/ .................  /  ^   ^/ ff   /   '/  /"   /                    D "    /  * rt  H-ealth Can-t-
Kaborear                        /-zz       s 7/    ; /    /   /    s   />n--SidaC--[t . .                 A;RCntre do Scal
ATLAtNTIC                          ,,,                                                ,,/,                                            +A                    R
Mu:.,,'   ,,/./,/,,''.,,w ,'',/.',   '/.*   cak
GAXA5       j       Th  D2RBE  *kf    /   .    .,                                                , ,         .  x i  .  .  /  ;
Na~~~)ortml" Capisai                                                                                                                              R-  "/  4'<   ...I. d...-ii - t .,RA
O~~~ClaNMbu  ;lgie  /   ,,,, .  . ',,/ 
/,. /////m'/'/////Ks)s//O/y//  J                 )  (                        2>>
iaIe pSoine BSzndwiu                                                 AMAOUD                             /-) .. d -r.+
0        aa  a,~~~~~ on                   otm    'KPI/                                                                 O-oOJr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.- rg cy/S,.,/- I f 
ATUWTlt )   MAURITANIA           l                         S.v pr                                                         
ATLANTIC
5    SENEGAL<                    2    t      *% innmeS6hO U<-\-a                                     H                    t
MALI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
i)GAMBIA_t  /  :  
OCEAN GUINEA                                                                                                         ,I
on
ma                                                                                                                                                                          in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHC UD









IMAGING
Report No.          17097
Type:      ICR



