Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2255 SE
               (Human Resources Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 22, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2255 SE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has evaluated a five-year program of
actions in support of development of the health and population
sectors at an estimated cost equivalent to $52.8 million;
       (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MEFP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Planning;
      (b)   "MOHSA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs;
      (c)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (d)   "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior;
      (e)   "MCWC" means the Borrower's Ministry in charge of the
Condition of Women and Children;
      (f)   "MYS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Youth and Sports;
      (g)   "HEU" means the Health Education Unit within MOHSA;
      (h)   "PNA" means the Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement;
      (i)   "IC" means the Interministerial Committee, to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (j)   "PCU" means the project coordination unit to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (k)   "CSU" means each of the component support units to be
maintained within MOHSA, MOI and MYS and MCWC in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (l)   "DSA" means the Directorate of Social Affairs within
MOHSA;
      (m)   "CHO" means community health organizations (Comite de
Sante, Association pour la Sante);
      (n)   "FP" means family planning;
      (o)   "MCH" means maternal and child health;
      (p)   "IEC" means information, education and communication;
      (q)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (r)   "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated September 25, 1987 and
November 25, 1987, and April 24, 1989 and June 12, 1989 between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (s)   "Special Account A", "Special Account B" and "Special
Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and
      (t)   "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year (i) commencing on
July 1, 1991 and ending on December 31, 1992 in the case of FY 1991-
1992, and (ii) commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of
each year in the case of the subsequent fiscal years.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF two special deposit accounts (Special
Account A and Special Account B) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the Association the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Page  4
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing
November 1, 2001 and ending May 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than 6 months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Accounts was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that every six months said auditors
                  furnish to the Association an opinion as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such period, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures:
            (i)   to increase MOHSA's percentage share of the
                  government's recurrent budget to 5.25% during
                  FY 91-92, to 5.75% during FY 93, to 6.25% during
                  FY 94, to 6.75% during FY 95, and to 7.25% during
                  FY 96;
           (ii)   to revise the presentational form of MOHSA's
                  budget to clearly delineate drug and material
                  allocations for the 45 districts of Senegal
                  starting with the budget law for FY 91-92; and
          (iii)   to ensure that total drugs and material allo-
                  cations to the 45 districts shall be at least
                  1.5 billion CFAF in FY 91-92, 1.1 billion CFAF
                  during FY 93 subsequently, such allocation shall
                  increase annually by at least 10% in real terms
                  through FY 96.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
Page  6
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   issue regulations, acceptable to the Association,
governing the organization and management of CHOs, detailing
procedures for transformation of existing CHOs to conform with the
new regulations and requiring that only CHOs which conform with the
new regulations are permitted to operate in public health
facilities;
      (b)   PNA has opened a separate bank account in a commercial
bank and the Borrower has made an initial deposit of at least 350
million CFAF in such bank account;
      (c)   the Borrower has implemented, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association, the staff redeployment and recruitment measures
of MOHSA defined in the emergency plan for FY 90-91;
      (d)   the Borrower has adopted its national family planning
program;
      (e)   the Borrower has published the decree defining MCH
services which include FP services as part of the basic MCH package;
and
      (f)   the Borrower has adequately staffed the PCU and CSUs.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan
            Rue Charles Laine
            B.P. 4017
            Dakar, Senegal
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  MINIFINANCES        3235 GS
                  Dakar
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
                  REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                  By /s/ Ibra Degucne KA
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a) Parts E and           5,800,000        85%
         F.1 of the
         Project
     (b) Parts B.2 and         1,100,000        85%
         C of the Project
(2)  Vehicles, equipment
     and materials:
     (a) Parts A, E, F         3,200,000        100%
         and G of the
         Project
     (b) Parts B, C and        1,900,000        100%
         D of the Project
(3)  Furniture under:
     (a) Parts A, E and          500,000        100%
         F of the Project
     (b) Part B of the            75,000        100%
         Project
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Drugs and contra-   2,000,000        100%
     ceptives under
     Parts A and F.2
     of the Project
(5)  Consultants'
Page  8
     services
     under:
     (a) Parts A, E,     1,900,000        100%
         F and G of
          the Project
     (b) Parts B, C      1,300,000        100%
         and D of the
         Project
(6)  Training under:
     (a) Parts A, E,       650,000        100%
         F and G of
         the Project
     (b) Parts B, C        950,000        100%
         and D of the
         Project
(7)  Incremental
     operating costs
     under:
     (a) Parts A, E, F   1,200,000        75%
         and G of the
         Project
     (b) Parts B.5, C       725,000        75%
         and D of the
         Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
        Category            SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8)  Refunding of               600,000        Amounts due pur-
     Project Prepara-            suant to Section
     tion Advances            2.02 (c) of this
                          Agreement
(9)  Unallocated              3,500,000
                             __________
         TOTAL               25,400,000
==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means all costs
arising on account of salaries of staff under contract, maintenance
of vehicles and equipment, fuel, office rent, supplies and services
under the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
efforts to control fertility and reduce the rate of population
growth and to restructure the health sector to enable it to provide
improved basic health services.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Component I Implementation of the National Population Policy
Part A:     Strengthening of the National Family Planning Program
1.    Expansion of FP services to the health post level within the
public health system through training of around 360 health post
nurses and instructors in schools of public health, equipping for
MCH-FP services of health posts in about 26 districts, provision and
distribution of contraceptives, and carrying out of nutritional
experiments in support of MCH care services.
2.    Expansion of FP services provided by the private sector
through the creation of a FP clinic in Kolda, training of private
sector doctors, nurses, pharmacists (and their assistants), and
staff of non-governmental organizations and volunteers, distribution
of contraceptives and provision of MCH/FP services through private
enterprises, provision of equipment for FP-IEC programs and
provision of support for the operations of non-governmental
organizations acceptable to the Association.
3.    Promotion of FP through information, education and communi-
cation (IEC), including development of improved operational
approaches for face-to-face communication, development of FP-IEC
programs for mass media, training of HEU staff and MOI and DSA field
personnel, and provision of equipment for HEU and for MOI and DSA
field personnel, and carrying out of market research studies.
Part B:     Promotion of the Status of Women
1.    Promotion of functional literacy for women through training of
monitors and village literacy agents, functional literacy training
for women groups and development and production of literacy
materials.
2.    Extension of the network of centers for women's group
activities ("cases-foyer") through construction and equipping of 30
centers.
3.    Provision of labor saving equipment for household work for up
to 225 women's groups and spare parts therefor.
4.    Training of millers and repair mechanics.
5.    Strengthening of MCWC through training in monitoring and
evaluation, information awareness campaigns, production and
dissemination of mass media materials, and provision of equipment
and furniture.
Part C:     Promotion of Youth through Family Life Education
1.    Rehabilitation and equipping of 12 departmental youth centers
and 26 training centers;
2.    Training of MYS agents and leaders of youth organizations in
family life education;
3.    Provision of vehicles for 4 regional offices; and
Page  10
4.    Production of mass media materials.
Part D:     Institutional Support for the Promotion of the National
            Population Program
1.    Carrying out of studies on key determinants of population
growth in Senegal, and channelling of research results to sector
planners and policy makers.
2.    Monitoring and evaluation of the national population program
and provision of computer equipment therefor.
Component II  Implementation of National Health Policy
Part E:     Development of the District Health System
1.    Establishment of training programs for health district
personnel and development of training materials and operational
guidelines, provision of vehicles for supervision of on the job
training; and carrying out of minor rehabilitation works and
provision of equipment for health centers in the training zones of
Nabil Choucair and Tambacounda.
2.    Establishment of financial management systems for the
districts and training of administrators in accounting.
3.    Promotion of community health organizations through seminars
for local leaders, production of radio and television spots and
posters and printing of guidelines on the management of CHOs.
4.    Implementation of district health development plans in 19
districts in the regions of Dakar, Thics and Diourbel through:
            (i)    Establishment of the network of district health
                   facilities through construction of 60 new health
                   posts, transformation of 4 MCH centers into
                   health posts, equipping of around 190 existing
                   health posts and rehabilitation and equipping of
                   5 health centers and 7 district pharmacies;
           (ii)    Rehabilitation of regional health offices;
          (iii)    Training of regional medical officers in public
                   health; and
           (iv)    Establishment of regional documentation centers.
Part F:     Promotion of Essential Drugs
1.    Strengthening of the organization and management of PNA
through training of PNA personnel in drug management and
distribution, and rehabilitation of facilities.
2.    Provision of an initial stock of drugs for PNA, the health
centers and health posts.
3.    Carrying out of information campaigns on television and radio
and printing and dissemination of essential drugs lists and
prescription guidelines.
4.    Carrying out of studies on the long term financial viability
of PNA and alternative market structures for the supply of essential
drugs.
Part G:     Institutional strengthening of MOHSA through training of
its staff in management systems and computer utilization, carrying
out of studies to define staffing norms for regional hospitals and
specialized structures of MOHSA, further development of a
computerized personnel information system, and preparation of a
program for the restructuring of the education and training system
in the health sector and provision of a vehicle and office
equipment.
Page  11
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
3.    Bidders for supply of drugs required under the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines and
drugs will be specified in the bidding documents under the
international non-prorietary name.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Senegal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods other than drugs estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $3.1 million, and contracts for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract
up to an aggregate amount of $2.7 million, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include advertising in a local paper,
public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, award to the
lowest evaluated bidder and which shall be open to foreign bidders.
2.    Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by the
Borrower estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $60,000 up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three local or
international suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
Page  12
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Overall Management and Coordination of the Project
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the Interministerial Committee
(IC) for the purpose of provision of overall guidance, policy
decision and resolution of major implementation problems regarding
Project execution. The IC shall be chaired by the Minister of MEFP
and shall include the ministers responsible for MOI, MYS, MOHSA,
MCWC and MOE. The IC shall approve annual work programs and budgets
for each component of the Project, review progress reports, evaluate
results and initiate any corrective action that may be necessary.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
to be headed by a project manager and to include higher level staff,
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association. The PCU shall serve as a secretariat to the IC, procure
goods and services for Parts B, C and D of the Project, prepare the
documentation necessary for withdrawal from the Credit Account,
manage the Special Account A, consolidate progress reports, budgets
and annual work programs for the Project, and supervise and
coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities for the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall maintain component support units (CSU)
within MOHSA, MOI, MYS and MCWC to provide logistical support to the
planning and executing divisions of MOHSA, MOI, MYS and MCWC. Each
CSU shall be headed by an individual and include higher level staff,
whose experience and qualifications are acceptable to the
Association.
4.    The Borrower shall execute the Project through the following
entities:
Parts A.1 and A.2:             MOHSA, MCH-FP Division
Part A.3:                      HEU
Parts B.1 through B.4:         MOI
Part B.5:                      MCWC
Part C:                        MYS
Part D:                        MEFP, Division of Human Resources
Part E:                        MOHSA, Directorate for Public Health
Parts F.1 and F.2:             PNA
Part F.3:                      MOHSA
Part F.4:                      CSU within MOHSA
Page  13
Part G:                        MOHSA
Annual Work Programs and Progress Review
5.    By October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall organize a
review meeting to be attended by the heads of PCU and of the CSUs,
and representatives of the Association in order to review: (a) the
draft annual work program and budget for the Project activities to
be undertaken during the next fiscal year, as such work program and
budget have been consolidated by PCU; (b) the draft recurrent budget
for health for the next fiscal year; and (c) a draft investment
budget for the health sector for the coming three years. The final
version of the annual work program and budget for the Project and
the investment budget for the health sector shall reflect the
comments made by the Association.
6.    Mid-term Review
      By June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall undertake a mid-term
review of the Project execution, including an assessment as to
whether the strategies being followed are producing the expected
results and whether those strategies need to be modified in the
light of changing circumstances, furnish the Association a report on
such mid-term review, exchange views with the Association on such
report and take all necessary measures to remedy any problem that
has been identified during such mid-term review.
Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement (PNA)
7.    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that
PNA stocks are kept in conformity with the official list of
essential drugs, agreed upon with the Association, and revise such
list only upon prior approval by the Association.
8.    PNA shall be headed, at all times, by a manager, with adequate
qualifications and experience.
9.    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that
(i) PNA shall submit its requests for replenishment of the bank
account referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement on the
basis of supporting documents at least at the end of each three
month period; and (ii) the replenishment of such account will be
made within one month of any such replenishment request.
Staffing
10.   The position of Director of Public Health, within MOHSA, shall
be held, at all times, by an individual, with adequate
qualifications and experience.
11.   The Borrower shall implement its medium-term plan (FY 1991-
1996) for staff redeployment.
12.   By June 30, 1993, the Borrower shall complete the studies on
staffing norms for regional hospitals and specialized structures of
MOHSA and exchange views on the findings of such studies and their
recommendations with the Association.
Labor Saving Equipment for Household:
13.   For the purposes of carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, by
December 31, 1991, the Borrower shall, through the CSU within MOI,
enter into an agreement with a banking institution; such agreement,
to specify the terms and conditions of withdrawals of funds to be
made available to women groups for use in income earning or social
welfare projects, to be acceptable to the Association.
Provision of an initial stock of drugs for Health Districts:
14.   The Borrower shall allocate the initial stocks of drugs
provided under the Project only to those health centers and health
posts that meet the eligibility criteria, agreed upon by the
Page  14
Borrower and the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b),
(2) (b), (3) (b), (5) (b), (6) (b) and (7) (b) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in the case of
Special Account (A) and Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4),
(5) (a), (6) (a) and (7) (a) of such table in the case of Special
Account (B);
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF
75,000,000 in the case of Special Account A and an amount of CFAF
175,000,000 in the case of Special Account B. Such amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Accounts
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pur-
                   suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Accounts such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Page  15
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
respective Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
