Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3925 BOS 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 21, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3925 
BOS 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 2004, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 12, 2004, from the 
Borrower, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (as defined hereinafter) and 
Republika Srpska (as defined hereinafter), describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the economic management of the 
Borrower, the Federation and Republika Srpska (hereinafter called the Program), declaring 
the commitment of the Borrower, the Federation and Republika Srpska to the execution of 
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  and 
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower, the 
Federation and Republika Srpska, by making the Credit in two tranches as 
hereinafter provided. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development  Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account  
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c)  
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the  
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the   
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes  
of the Credit.”; and  
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, and 9.07. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BFP” means the Budget Framework Paper of either the 
Federation (as defined hereafter) or the Republika Srpska (as defined hereafter), 
and “BFPs” means the BFP of the Federation and the BFP of Republika Srpska 
collectively; 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Entity” means either the Federation or Republika Srpska, as the 
case may be, and “Entities” means the Federation and Republika Srpska 
collectively; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the 
European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European 
Union; 
 
(e) 
“Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a 
 political sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors 
thereto; 
 
(f)  
“Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means the agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to 
any of the Borrower’s or either of the Entities’ respective fiscal years, which 
period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(h) 
“MTDS” means the Medium-Term Development Strategy (Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper) adopted by the Parliament of the Borrower on March 22, 
2004; 
 
(i) 
 “Republika Srpska” means Republika Srpska, a political sub-division of 
the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto; 
 
(j) 
“RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Republika Srpska, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Subsidiary Credit” means a credit provided under a Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement (as defined hereafter); and 
 
(l) 
“Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means either the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to such 
agreement; and “Subsidiary Credit Agreements” means such agreements, collectively. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty three million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in 
support of the Program. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, open and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank a deposit account in Euros on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) 
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in   
Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program;  
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken.  
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect 
Page  6
-
5
-
of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set 
as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be 
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 
in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15th and July 15th in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each January 15th and July 15th commencing July 15, 
2014 and ending January 15, 2024.  Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such 
principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified as currency for the purposes of     
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (a) relend an amount in Dollars equivalent to 
fifteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,400,000) out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to the Federation under a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Federation; and (b) relend an amount in dollars 
equivalent 
to 
seven 
million 
eight 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                  
(SDR 7,800,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to the Republika Srpska under a 
subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Republika 
Srpska, on the following principal terms and conditions: 
 
(i) 
the term of each Subsidiary Credit shall be twenty (20) years, 
including a 10-year grace period; 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall charge the Federation and the Republika 
Srpska a commitment charge at a rate equal to the rate payable 
under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, on the principal amount of 
each Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn from time to time; 
 
(iii) 
the Borrower shall charge the Federation and the Republika 
Srpska a service charge on the principal amount of each 
Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a
rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(iv) 
the principal amount of each Subsidiary Credit shall be repayable 
in Euros and shall be the equivalent in Euros (determined as of the 
date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of 
expenditures for the Program. 
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. Upon 
the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than two (2) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall have been executed 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(b) 
that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall have been executed with 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to 
be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
that the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Federation in accordance 
with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Republika Srpska in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of  the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Trg BiH 1 
 71000 
Sarajevo 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387-33) 471-822 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Page  10
-
9
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Adnan Terzic 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Shengman Zhang 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of  
The Credit and Excluded Expenditures 
 
For the purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall not be excluded; 
 
2.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
Tobacco, 
unmanu-
factured, tobacco 
refuse 
 
122 - 
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not  
containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
 
525 - 
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
667 - 
Pearls, 
precious 
and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
 
Group 
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 718.7 
Nuclear 
reactors, 
and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
Tobacco 
processing 
machinery 
 
897 897.3 
Jewelry 
of 
gold, 
silver or platinum 
group metals (except 
watches and watch 
cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
 
971 - 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the 
manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower 
or international agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to  
in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Government of the Federation has submitted to the Parliament of the 
Federation, and the Government of the Republika Srpska has submitted to the Parliament of 
the Republika Srpska, budget execution reports for Fiscal Year 2004, satisfactory to the 
Association, which reports show, among other things, that total payroll expenses have not 
exceeded budgetary appropriations. 
 
2. 
The budgets enacted by the Parliaments of both Entities for Fiscal Year 2005 show 
an adjustment in total payroll expenses (including allowances and excluding severance 
payments) satisfactory  to the Association, and are consistent with the MTDS targets and 
their respective BFP for Fiscal Years 2005-2007. 
 
3. 
The Federation Ministry of Finance has confirmed and provided evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the consolidated cantonal budget execution reports for 
Fiscal Year 2004 show total payroll expenses not exceeding the consolidated budget 
appropriations, and has also confirmed and provided evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that all cantonal budget laws for Fiscal Year 2005 have been enacted by the 
respective Parliaments, and show a consolidated adjustment in payroll expenses (including 
allowances and excluding severance payments) consistent with the MTDS targets and the 
BFPs of the Federation for Fiscal Years 2005-2007. 
 
4. 
The Government of the Borrower has submitted to the Parliament of the Borrower 
a
law on salaries for the public sector, satisfactory to the Association, introducing new pay 
grade structures for civil servants and other employment categories of budget institutions. 
 
5. 
The Government of the Republika Srpska has  submitted to the Parliament of the 
Republika Srpska a law on salaries for the public sector, satisfactory to the Association, 
introducing new pay grade structures for civil servants and other employment categories of 
budget institutions. 
 
6. 
The Parliaments of the Borrower and both Entities have enacted laws on higher 
education, satisfactory to the Association, which are consistent with one another, and the 
Governments of both Entities have included an agreed list of universities and/or selected 
faculties in the Treasury system in their respective jurisdictions, including sub-accounts for 
own revenues. 
 
7. 
The Federation Government has reassigned revenues to the Entity level for 
adequate financing of higher education spending, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
8. 
The Parliament of the Borrower has enacted a law on state finance (organic budget 
law), satisfactory to the Association. 
 
9. 
The Ministries of Finance of both Entities have updated their respective BFPs for 
Fiscal Years 2005-2007, satisfactory to the Association, and have presented their respective 
BFPs to their respective Governments, to facilitate budget preparation for the Fiscal Year 
2005.  
 
10. 
The Federation Ministry of Finance has confirmed and provided evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that all cantonal budget laws for Fiscal Year 2005 have been 
approved by the respective Parliaments and are in line with the Federation 2005-2007 BFP. 
 
11. 
The Parliaments of the Borrower and both Entities have enacted laws on internal 
audit, satisfactory to the Association, and designated budget-financed institutions have 
submitted internal audit plans, satisfactory to the Association, to their respective Ministries 
of Finance.  
 
12. 
The Parliaments of the Borrower and  both Entities have enacted amendments to 
their respective Supreme Audit Institution Law, satisfactory to the Association, and the 
Governments of the Borrower and both Entities have included in their final budget 
execution report for Fiscal Year 2004 a report on the corrective actions taken by the 
budget-financed institutions in response to the latest published audit report on budget 
execution.  
 
13. 
The Parliament of the Borrower has enacted the Public Procurement Law, 
satisfactory to the Association, and the Governments of the Borrower and both Entities 
have promulgated implementing regulations, standard bidding documents and standard 
forms of contract consistent with the said Public Procurement Law, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
