Project Information Document (Initial)     4       1
Country Name:             Bosnia and Herzegovina
Project Name:             Economic Management Structural
Adjustment Credit (EMSAC)
Region:                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector:                   Multi-Sector Structural Adjustment
Project ID:               PE-P071039
Borrower:                 Bosnia and Herzegovina
(BiH)
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Address:                  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mehmed Spahe 5, Sarajevo
Telephone: 387-33-203 147
Fax:         387-33-203 152
Ministry of Finance
Republika Srpska
Vuka Karadzica 4, Banja Luka
Telephone:    387-51-331 350
Fax:          387-51-331 361
Environment Category:     C
Date This (Initial) PID Prepared:   April 7, 2003
Project Preparation Date:      April-May 2003
Projected Appraisal Date:      June 2003
Projected Board Date:          December 2003
1. Background
Following a devastating conflict and the signature of the Dayton
Peace Agreement in 1995, BIH has made some progress -although at
an uneven pace - in establishing itself as a modern and viable
state, among others pursuing integration on dual tracks: (i)
internal:Ly, by strengthening harmonization of largely autonomous
sub-national entities while increasingly strengthening the
coordinating functions of the central state; and (ii)



externally, by actively engaging into the Stabilization and
Association Process (SAP) with the European Union (EU). The
World Bank has supported the reform programs implemented since
1996 through a series of structural adjustment credits which are
fully disbursed except for one ongoing in support of
improvements in the business environment. An IMF Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) was also successfully completed in mid-2001,
and a second SBA is currently under implementation.
BIH has posted impressive growth rates (an average 23 percent in
real GDP growth between 1996 and 2002), even when compared to
other post-conflict economies. Anchored in strict adherence to
the currency board arrangement, monetary policy has been
successful in maintaining low inflation. Recent growth has
remained positive (an estimated 3.9 percent in 2002) but has
been fading, mirroring declining official aid. In that context,
the focus of macroeconomic and structural policies is now
increasingly shifting from reconstruction and support to the
return off refugees and internally displaced people, to
structural and administrative reforms that would promote the
transition to private sector-led growth in a financially
sustainable environment. In particular, the size of government
in the economy needs to be reduced through further fiscal
consolidation in order to free resources for growth and private
sector investment and to accelerate structural reforms.
Implemen-ation of such reforms is particularly challenging in
BIH, given the country's extremely complex institutional and
administrative context.
2.   Objectives
The proposed credit would support the implementation of a public
expenditure reform program that would aim at (i) reducing the
excess burden of government in the economy by rationalizing
public spending and (ii) improving the efficiency and equity
through expenditure restructuring and better governance in the
management of public resources. These objectives are expected to
be fully aligned with the priorities of Government's upcoming
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (currently in draft form).
3.   Description
To encourage the above stated development objective, the EMSAC
will support the implementation of expenditure rationalization
and restructuring policies, including cross-sectoral measures
related to public administration reform, civil service reform,
as well as sector-specific reforms related to spending in
education, health, and pensions. The EMSAC would further support
the formulation and implementation of systemic reforms in inter-
governmental fiscal relations. Finally, the program would also



target public expenditure management and governance, with a
particular focus on budget preparation, financial accountability
in the public sector and the effective implementation of
legislation preventing conflict of interest.
4.   Project Financing
US$
IDA       51.0
Total     51.0
5.   Implementation
The State's Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
would be responsible for overall administration of the Credit on
behalf of BIH, the Borrower. Each Entity's Ministry of Finance
would be responsible for administrating the pre-allocated funds
from the Credit. As the proposed reforms mainly focus on medium-
term fiscal policy orientations, the Ministries of Finance and
Treasury at the State and Entity level would also be responsible
to monitor the finalization and implementation of the program to
be supported by the Credit. In addition, in terms of further
work in the preparation phase of the Credit, sector-specific
issues will be discussed with working groups established by the
concerned Ministries (education, health, administrative
reforms). Finally, the PRSP office (and its successor agency
monitoring the implementation of the PRSP) would be closely
associated throughout project preparation and implementation to
ensure consistency of the overall objectives of the program with
BIH's overall development framework.
6.   Sustainability
The program's key objective is precisely to ensure fiscal
sustainability of the government's budget framework while
reorienting spending objectives towards improved outcomes in
public service delivery. The measures envisaged build upon the
recommendation of in-depth analytical work completed with the
support of the World Bank, including a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review, a Fiscal decentralization Report, a
Poverty Assessment and a Labor Market Report.
7. Lessons learned from past operations in the sector
In addition to building   upon the body of analytical work
mentioned above, the proposed operation also draws from the
lessons of preceding structural adjustment credits , including
the recently closed Second Public Finance Structural Adjustment
Credit (PFSAC 2) In particular, successful implementation of
PFSAC 2 has relied on the application of great selectivity in



program measures, given the BIH's particularly complex
institutional environment.
8.   Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)
None
9.   Environmental Aspects (incl. Public consultations)
None
10. Contact Point
Jean-Luc Bernasconi (task manager)
C/o The World Bank, CO Sarajevo
MSN JB3-100
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 387-33-251 500
Fax No.: 387-33-440 108
For information on other project related documents, contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information is based on an evolving project
concept. Certain components may not necessarily be included in
the final project.



