                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR2584



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-43110)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6.7 MILLION
                       (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO

                               BURKINA FASO

                                    FOR A

          DECENTRALIZED URBAN CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                 July 30, 2013




Urban Development and Services - AFTU2
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2013)

                           Currency Unit = FCFA
                           FCFA1,000 = US$ 1.98
                           US$ 1.00 = FCFA504

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1- December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     French Development Agency – Agence française de développement
AMBF    Association of Municipalities of Burkina Faso
AMO     Support to contract management - Assistance à la maitrise d’ouvrage
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
BCEAO   Central Bank of West African States - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
        l'Ouest
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community Based Organization
CGCT    General Code of Local Governments - Code général des collectivités territoriales
CSI     Informal Sector Contribution - Contribution Secteur Informel
DAF     Financial Department – Direction des affaires financières
DEP     Directorate of Studies and Planning - Direction des études et de la planification
DGE     Unconditional grant for equipment - Dotation générale d’équipement
DGF     Unconditional grant for operating costs - Dotation générale de fonctionnement
DGI     Treasury Department – Direction générale des impôts
DUC     ABP Decentralized Urban Capacity Building Project
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
FAPM    Financial and Administrative Project Manual
FICOD   Local Government Investment Fund - Fonds d’investissement des collectivités
        décentralisées
FPDCT   Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments - Fonds permanents de
        développement des collectivités territoriales
GTZ     German technical donor agency - Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IFR     Interim Un-Audited Financial Report
KfW     German development financing agency - Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LGs     Local Governments
MATD    Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization – Ministère de
        l’administration territoriale et de la décentralisation
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
MEDEV   Ministry of Economy and Development – Ministère de l’économie et du
        développement
MFB     Ministry of Finance and Budget – Ministère des finances et du budget
MHU     Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning – Ministère de l’habitat et de
        l’urbanisme


                                       ii
MSP     Municipal Support Program
MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PACVU   Urban Environment Project - Projet d’Amélioration des Conditions de Vie
        Urbaines
PAP     Priority Action Plan
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PIP     Priority Investment Program
PMP     Priority Maintenance Program
PRCA    Administration Capacity Building Project – Projet de renforcement des capacités
        de l’administration
PRCCU   Projet de renforcement des capacités de l’administration
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDAU    Urban Master Plan - Schéma directeur d’aménagement urbain
SG      General Secretariat - Secrétariat général
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
TAL     Technical Assistance Loan
UIS     Urban Information System
WAEMU   West African Economic and Monetary Union




        Vice President:             Makhtar Diop
        Country Director:           Madani M. Tall
        Sector Director:            Jamal Saghir
        Sector Manager:             Alexander Bakalian
        Project Team Leader:        Balakrishna Menon Parameswaran
        ICR Team Leader:            Jonas Ingemann Parby
        ICR Main Author:            Abdoulaye Kane




                                      iii
                                                 BURKINA FASO

                          Decentralized Urban Capacity Building Project



                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  Contents 
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support ................................................. 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 53
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54

  IBRD MAP 35395




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Decentralized Urban
Country:                Burkina Faso              Project Name:             Capacity Building
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P084027                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43110
ICR Date:               07/24/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                       Borrower:                 BURKINA FASO
Original Total
                        XDR 6.70M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 5.52M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.70M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/10/2005      Effectiveness:           11/30/2007          11/30/2007
                                                                                    11/04/2009
Appraisal:             02/19/2007      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                    11/28/2012
Approval:              05/29/2007      Mid-term Review:                             10/12/2010
                                       Closing:                 01/31/2013          01/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                  v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     39                  39
General industry and trade sector                                     1                     1
Solid waste management                                                1                     1
Sub-national government administration                                59                  59


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      25                  25
Municipal finance                                                     24                  24
Municipal governance and institution building                         25                  25
Urban planning and housing policy                                     13                  13
Urban services and housing for the poor                               13                  13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:            Alexander E. Bakalian                Eustache Ouayoro
Project Team Leader:       Balakrishna Menon Parameswaran Sylvie Debomy
ICR Team Leader:           Jonas Ingemann Parby
ICR Primary Author:        Abdoulaye Kane


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Strengthen the delivery of urban services at the municipal level with special emphasis on
Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, Koudougou, Banfora, Ouahigouya and Kaya.

                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Share of municipal budget spent on infrastructure investments and maintenance.
                Average (2003-2005)
                                            -Ouagadougou:                        -Ouagadougou:
                                            25%                                  33%
                -Ouagadougou: 25%
                                            -Bobo-Dioulasso:                     -Bobo-Dioulasso:
Value           (2002-2004)
                                            22%                                  34%
quantitative or -Bobo-Dioulasso: 12%
                                            -Koudougou: 21%                      -Koudougou: 37%
Qualitative)    -Koudougou: 13%
                                            -Banfora: 25%                        -Banfora: 44%
                -Banfora: 25%
                                            -Ouahigouya: 25%                     -Ouahigouya: 65%
                -Ouahigouya: 17%
                                            -Kaya: 21%                           -Kaya: 53%
                -Kaya: 10%
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    01/31/2013                           01/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (target exceeded for all cities). Latest figure is for 2011.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Increase in municipal revenue (recettes ordinaires).
                Average 2003-2005:
                CFAF 8,342 million          -Ouagadougou:                        -Ouagadougou:
                                            25%                                  105%
                -Ouagadougou: CFAF          -Bobo-Dioulasso:                     -Bobo-Dioulasso:
Value
                5,648m (2002-2004)          40%                                  51%
quantitative or
                -Bobo-Dioulasso: 1.777 -Koudougou: 50%                           -Koudougou: 50%
Qualitative)
                -Koudougou: 262             -Banfora: 50%                        -Banfora: 80%
                -Banfora: 337               -Ouahigouya: 40%                     -Ouahigouya: 19%
                Ouahigouya: 188             -Kaya: 40%                           -Kaya: 29%
                -Kaya: 131
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    01/31/2013                           01/31/2013
Comments
                Achieved (target met or exceeded except for Ouahigouya and Kaya). The latest
(incl. %
                figure available is for 2011.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
                Number of municipalities having adopted and using transparent, standardized,
Indicator 1 :
                and efficient budget management procedures as specified in administrative

                                               vii
                management procedures manual.
Value
(quantitative   0                            6                                 49
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     01/31/2013                        01/31/2013
                Achieved (target exceeded). Since 2010, the activity has benefitted all forty nine
Comments
                (49) urban municipalities of the country beyond the initial six (6) beneficiary
(incl. %
                municipalities, and, eventually, all the 351 LGs adopted and started using the
achievement)
                manual.
                Number of municipal contracts developed and signed by the Government and the
Indicator 2 :
                cities.
Value
(quantitative   0                            19                                6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     01/31/2013                        01/31/2013
                Partially achieved. Contracts were developed, signed and implemented for the six
Comments
                project target cities. In 2010, Government dropped the Municipal Contract
(incl. %
                approach in 2010 following the roll out of the FPDCT. The target is therefore no
achievement)
                longer relevant.
                Level of budget execution of Priority Maintenance Program (PMP), as specified
Indicator 3 :
                in the annexes to the municipal contracts.
Value
(quantitative   0                            95%                               3%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     01/31/2013                        01/31/2013
Comments
                Not achieved. Latest figure from 2011.The activities planned were not carried
(incl. %
                out due to delays in TA and contracting.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Level of budget execution for the street addressing activities.
Value
(quantitative   0                            100%                              89%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     01/31/2013                        01/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved. Latest figure from 2011.
achievement)
                Increase in revenue from the Informal Sector Contribution tax (CSI -
Indicator 5 :
                Contribution du secteur informel).
                Total average 2004-2006:
                                             Ouagadougou:                      Ouagadougou:
                CFAF 872 million
                                             25%                               -14%
                                             Bobo-Dioulasso:                   Bobo-Dioulasso:
Value           -Ouagadougou: 5%
                                             25%                                -50%
(quantitative   -Bobo-Dioulasso: 5%
                                             Koudougou: 40%                    Koudougou: -38%
or Qualitative) -Koudougou: 8%
                                             Banfora: 40%                      Banfora: 50%
                -Banfora: 8%
                                             Ouahigouya: 50%                   Ouahigouya: -29%
                -Ouahigouya: 10%
                                             Kaya: 50%                         Kaya: -19%
                -Kaya: 10%
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     01/31/2013                        01/31/2013


                                               viii
                  Not achieved. Note, however, that there were several changes to the CSI in 2010
Comments
                  limiting the total potential value of CSI revenue. Based on revised calculation,
(incl. %
                  the indicator is broadly stated to be achieved. See main ICR text. Latest figure
achievement)
                  from 2011.
                  Number of urban Master Plans (SDAU - Schema directeur d'aménagement
Indicator 6 :
                  urbain) developed.
Value
(quantitative     1                         13                                    12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                 01/31/2013                       01/31/2013
Comments          Achieved. 12 Urban Master Plans are completed. The city of Ouagadougou has
(incl. %          not been taken into account because the city completed an Urban Master Plan
achievement)      independently from the project.
                  Level of budget execution of the pilot operation on Occupancy Permits (Permis
Indicator 7 :
                  urbains d'habiter) and land titles (Titres fonciers).
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                                N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   01/31/2013                          01/31/2013
                Not achieved (under the project). No activity was carried out under the project.
Comments
                However, IFC activities were undertaken as part of "Doing Business". Main
(incl. %
                results were simplification of land titling procedure and increase in delivery of
achievement)
                land titles.
                Development, dissemination and implementation of financial ratio guide for
Indicator 8 :
                municipal finances (number of guides published).
Value
(quantitative   0                          4                                   3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   01/31/2013                          01/31/2013
Comments
                Achieved. The original number of financial ratio guides were consolidated and
(incl. %
                reduced to three.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     11/20/2007           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/03/2008           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.47
  3     07/11/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.99
  4     01/08/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              1.28
  5     06/30/2009           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.63
  6     11/24/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.09
                              Moderately                     Moderately
  7     06/04/2010                                                                          2.55
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  8     12/15/2010       Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately                     3.46


                                                   ix
                                                     Unsatisfactory
  9    07/05/2011   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory     4.54
 10    03/17/2012       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory     6.17
 11    11/17/2012       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory     7.08
 12    02/10/2013   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory     7.82


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Amendment of the Financing
                                                     Agreement to increase of
 11/04/2009               S       S           2.09
                                                     procurement prior review
                                                     thresholds for Burkina Faso.
                                                     Amendment of Financing
                                                     Agreement to include
                                                     Incremental Operating Cost and
                                                     reallocation of project proceeds
                                                     among categories of
                                                     expenditures is to allow
                                                     disbursement of incremental
                                                     operating costs under Credit No.
                                                     4311-BUR which were
                                                     envisaged in the Project design
                                                     and reflected in the Project
                                                     Appraisal Document (page 20,
                                                     paragraph 54, and page 56,
 11/28/2012               S     MS            7.26
                                                     paragraph 163), but were
                                                     inadvertently not specified
                                                     under Schedule 2, Section IV,
                                                     A.2 (Table of Eligible
                                                     Expenditures) of the Financing
                                                     Agreement. The costs incurred
                                                     as incremental operating
                                                     cost were approved as eligible
                                                     by the Bank from the beginning
                                                     of the project up until
                                                     June 2012 when the issue was
                                                     raised and disbursement was
                                                     halted.




                                              x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Context
1.       Economic growth in Burkina Faso averaged 5.9%, placing the country above the
average of the other countries in West Africa. The country’s poverty index had fallen to
46.4% in 2003, compared to 54.6% in 1998, with this change occurring largely in the rural
areas. However, at the same time, the poverty rate in urban zones almost doubled, rising from
10.4% in 1994 to 19.9% in 2003. Presidential elections in 2005 and legislative elections in
2007 were ruled as relatively fair and free by the majority of international observers. The
results of these elections confirmed the continued dominance of the ruling party. This long-
term political stability combined with important economic reforms enabled higher than
average growth rates for Burkina Faso relative to the sub-region, and these gains had
provided opportunities for an increase in public expenditures on health, education and water
and sanitation as well as for more targeted social service provision. However, the population
growth rate remained high - around 3.2% annually.

Sector Context
2.      Burkina Faso is one of the least urbanized countries in West Africa - 23% of its
population is living in urban areas. However, the urban population has been growing steadily,
with the number of urban centers with 10,000 residents projected to increase from 64 in 2000
to 250 in 2025, and the share of population living in urban areas expected to increase to 40%
in 2025. In general terms, urban development was characterized by (i) a significant deficit in
urban planning capacity, which led to urban sprawl that was costly to cities and exacerbated
the shortage of urban infrastructure; (ii) difficult living conditions, with more than 50 percent
of the population living in unsafe housing and close to two-thirds of the urban population
with limited access to sanitation; and (iii) inefficient management of financial resources and
the shortage of these resources relative to needs. Furthermore, urban development has been
constrained by insufficient resources - the combined budgets of the 49 urban local
governments (LGs) accounted for only 2% of the national budget in 2008.

3.      The national authorities made urban development a national priority with the creation
of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning in 2006. With the passing of the Local
Government Act in 2004, Government confirmed its commitment to decentralization. The act
calls for a phased approach to the implementation of decentralization and for establishment
of dedicated transfers (the Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments (FPDCT)
to local governments as part of fiscal decentralization reforms.

4.      Decentralization reforms had been affected by the (i) the failure to transfer authority
to the LGs based on the schedule set by the act; (ii) the weakness of LGs and paucity of their
own resources as well as those transferred by the Government; and (iii) weak human
resources at the local government level, and their lack of control over the staff assigned to
them by the State. The FPDCT was established by means of the LG Act, but the FPDCT had
not been operationalized and dedicated funds had not been set aside in the Government
budget. 



                                             1
Rationale for Bank assistance and contribution to high level objectives
5.      The Bank’s intervention was consistent with its role as a major actor supporting urban
development in Burkina Faso in the period from 1995 up to 2005, focusing on the two main
cities ─ Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. The project was designed to address three core
sector issues as highlighted above: (i) inadequate capacity to deliver urban infrastructure and
services and manage urban development; (ii) limited institutional and implementation
capacity of urban local governments (LGs or municipalities) and urban stakeholders; and (iii)
local resource mobilization for sustainable service delivery.

6.       The project was designed to (i) facilitate the enforcement of the laws on
decentralization and the increase in financial, human, and technical resources to be made
available to urban LGs with a view to assumption of the responsibilities transferred to them;
(ii) facilitate a closer relationship between the municipal authorities and the people through a
participatory process (municipal audits) for identifying priority investment programs; and
(iii) make the municipal authorities accountable to their constituents and the Government
through a contractual framework (municipal contract). It focused on technical assistance
targeting in particular (i) the preparation of municipal audits that made it possible to prepare
priority investment programs designed in a participatory manner and funded by the FPDCT
with State budget funds already included in the 2007 budget; (ii) the implementation of the
mechanism for the transfer of funds from the Government budget to the LGs to finance
infrastructure (FDPCT); and (iii) capacity building aimed at municipal and urban
programming and management (in urban LGs and support institutions), with the aim of
efficient use of resources transferred in an enhanced fiduciary environment. 
 
7.     The project supplemented the other IDA-funded interventions (in particular the
Municipal Capacity Building Program and the PRSC series) and their objective of providing
LGs with sustainable financing and capacity for implementation and management of
investments for urban service delivery. The project was designed to leverage the financing
for municipal infrastructure from Government as well as from the PRSCs towards the
FDPCT through the inclusion of specific triggers in the PRSC series.
 
8.      The project focused on Burkina Faso’s six main cities (Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso,
Kaya, Koudougou, Ouagadougou, and Ouahigouya). Provisions were also made to provide
targeted assistance to other regional capitals (Dédougou, Dori, Gaoua, Fada N’Gourma,
Manga, Tenkodogo, and Ziniaré).

9.       In terms of its implementation, the project was designed to be mainstreamed with the
activities and structures of the implementing agencies. In fact, the entities receiving
institutional support directly supervised those activities for which they were responsible as
part of a contractual arrangement between entities and the project coordination entity. Each
commune were expected to sign a municipal contract that included (i) a Priority Investment
Program (PIP) for infrastructure and services to be funded by the State budget through the
FPDCT; (ii) a Municipal Capacity Building Program funded by the project; and (iii) a
Priority Maintenance Program (PMP) funded by the commune. Municipalities were also the
beneficiaries of activities conducted by the ministries and the AMBF.



                                             2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
10.    The development objective of the project was to strengthen the delivery of urban
services at the municipal level with special emphasis on Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso,
Koudougou, Banfora, Ouahigouya and Kaya.

11.    The key indicators for monitoring achievement of the project development objectives
were as follows: (i) share of municipal budget spent on infrastructure investments and
maintenance, and (ii) increase in current municipal revenue (“recettes ordinaires?).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators
12.    No changes were made to the project development.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
13.    The main beneficiaries of the project were (i) the local governments benefitting from
technical assistance and capacity support, (ii) the population of the target cities, and (iii) the
national government institutions (ministries, units, and technical departments) involved in
managing and overseeing the framework for decentralization.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Municipal Support Program (US$4.3 million equivalent)

14.    This component focused on strengthening the technical and financial capacity of the
municipalities of Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, Koudougou, Banfora, Ouahigouya and
Kaya to program, finance, deliver and manage infrastructure and urban services. This was be
supplemented by activities targeted at the remaining regional capitals. This component has
three sub-components, which will define the Municipal Support Program of the municipal
contract:

 Sub-component 1.1. Strengthening programming and urban management capacity (US$3.0
million equivalent). Activities under this sub-component included: (i) municipal audits for
the cities of Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, Banfora, Ouahigouya, Koudougou and Kaya
(ii) updating or developing city plans and satellite photos (12 regional capitals, excluding
Ouagadougou); (iii) evaluation and update of the Urban Information System, (iv) completing
and consolidating the implementation of the street addressing system,(v) training for the
municipal departments and elected officials; (vi) consolidation of the solid the waste
management systems in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; (vii) supporting the
identification of community based projects included in the PIP; (viii) providing logistical
support to the six targeted municipalities (furniture, office and IT equipment); (ix) supporting
the elaboration of the PMPs and regular monitoring and evaluation by consultants; and (x)
supporting capacity for contract management.

Sub-Component 1.2. Strengthening Financial Resource Mobilization (US$680,000
equivalent). Activities included: (i) continued support to the implementation of the residential



                                              3
tax in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and rolling out the residential tax to Koudougou,
Banfora, Ouahigouya and Kaya; and (ii) strengthening collection of the CSI (Contribution
Sector Informelle) in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and support to carry out tax censes
in Koudougou, Banfora, Ouahigouya and Kaya.

Sub-Component 1.3. Strengthening administrative and financial management of the
municipalities (US$600,000 equivalent). Activities included: (i) computerization of financial
management and training; (ii) diagnostic of economic infrastructure management and support
to the improvement of revenue generated from the infrastructures; and (iii) development of a
training module on budget preparation and financial analysis, workshops and on-site training,
and preparation of a budget and financial management manual.


Component 2: Support to urban development institutions and stakeholders (US$2.6
million equivalent)

Sub component 2.1. Transfer mechanisms and financing local investments (US$600,000
equivalent). Operationalizing transfers and monitoring the progress in local investments was
implemented through: (i) a comprehensive review of the financial framework for
decentralization and periodic technical assistance; (ii) strengthening the Local Finance
Observatory in Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization (MATD) and
publishing of an annual municipal finance ratio guide; and (iii) support to establishing the
instruments and procedures of the FPDCT, including logistical support, training and
communication.

Sub component 2.2 Urban planning (US$1.4 million equivalent). The capacities of the
relevant ministries and other institutions to support the municipalities in carrying out urban
planning was expected to be strengthened through: (i) modification and simplification of the
development process and content of urban master plans and information technology support
to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHU); (ii) support to the implementation of
specific activities of the national housing policy and strategy for safeguarding public land
reserves including the development of a strategic plan for the social housing sector; (iii)
extending the pilot operation on issuance of land ownership documents; and (iv) establishing
an observatory of local economic development in MEDEV to support the development of
secondary cities.

Sub component 2.3. Institutional Strengthening (US$630,000 equivalent). General support to
the national level institutions involved in urban development: (i) training and logistical
support to the DGDCL and permanent secretariat of the MATD; (ii) implementation o f and
training on the M&E systems for all regional capitals, MATD, MFB, MHU and MEDEV,
including surveys to monitor results and evaluations of impact on beneficiaries; (iii) support
to the Association of Municipalities of Burkina Faso (AMBF) to carry out training programs
and implement street addressing; and (iv) support to private sector development through
training of SMEs, consultant firms and local economic groups.




                                            4
Component 3: Project management, monitoring and evaluation (US$l.7 million
equivalent)

15.    The objective of this component was to strengthen national capacity to coordinate
programs, monitor performance of municipalities and institutions involved in decentralized
urban development. Activities included:

Sub-component 3.1. Project management (US$l.2 million equivalent): Overall support to
project management via (i) technical assistance to the departments of MATD and other
ministry departments involved in project management; (ii) equipping the MATD with
suitable information technology and office equipment, and logistical means to carry out the
management of the project; (iii) operating expenses of the MATD coordination team; (iv)
quarterly meetings of the steering committee; (v) short term technical assistance to ministries
as well as municipalities to carry out their tasks; and (iv) participation of key staff to relevant
workshops and training.

Sub-component 3.2. Monitoring and evaluation (US$405,000 equivalent). Actvities included:
(i) workshops at project launch, mid-term review, and closure; (ii) evaluation of municipal
contracts (performance of all parties) and regular implementation progress workshops; (iii) of
consultants for the regular evaluation hiring of the project; and (iv) communication,
publication and maximizing use of project experiences.

Sub-component 3.3. Audits (US$140,000 equivalent). Annual financial audits of project
accounts.

1.6 Revised components

16.    Components were not revised during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
17.     The project was restructured twice during the course of implementation. The first
restructuring was completed in November 2009 to amend the FA to reflect the increase in the
procurement prior review thresholds – this was a country level decision affecting all World
Bank projects. Secondly, a Level 2 Project Restructuring was completed in November 2012.
The restructuring included an amendment to the initial financing agreement to include in the
project operating costs for all three expenditure categories covering each of the three project
components. In addition, the restructuring included a reallocation of proceeds: Component 1
was reduced with an amount totaling SDR 500,000 while Component 2 increased by SDR
750,000 (including SDR 250,000 from the unallocated resources). The rationale was to allow
disbursement of incremental operating costs which were envisaged in the project design and
reflected in the PAD (paragraph 54 and paragraph 163), but were inadvertently not specified
in the Financing Agreement. The costs incurred as incremental operating cost were approved
as eligible by the Bank from the beginning of the project up until June 2012 when the issue
was raised and disbursement was halted on request of the Disbursement Department.




                                              5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
18.     Project preparation took place over a relatively long period ─ from January 2005 to
November 20071, largely because of changes in design. The preparation included thorough
consultation with stakeholders and relevant Government counterparts as well as
municipalities. Preparation was also informed by studies and other activities financed by a
Project Preparation Facility of US$ 600,000. Initially designed as a urban infrastructure and
service delivery project (a follow up to the Urban Environment Project) with specific
financing for urban infrastructure, the project had to be redesigned during the September
2005 identification mission to reflect the new strategic priority on budget support and thus to
be aligned with the 2006-2009 World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Burkina Faso.
The revised design was based on the commitment of Government to provide financing for
urban services through FDPCT. The project built on the achievements and lessons from the
earlier Urban Environment Project (in terms of resource mobilization and urban and
municipal management) and on the Bank’s earlier engagement in the urban sector. The
lessons learned considered included (i) sustainable financing of urban infrastructure services
require expansion of intergovernmental transfers, (ii) emphasis on strengthening the
mobilization of local governments’ own resources, and (iii) the importance of continuous
local capacity building. Analyses of the country context and of the decentralization and urban
development sectors were both pertinent and sound.

19.     The project design was complex and ambitious even if it reflected a coherent
approach. The project aimed at combining institutional capacity building through the credit
and the financing of local investments expected through Government resources. The project
development objective outlined in both the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the
financing agreement was to “strengthen the delivery of urban services at the municipal level,
with special emphasis on Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, Koudougou, Banfora,
Ouahigouya, and Kaya? in spite of the fact that the project did not finance any direct service
delivery or infrastructure. The main focus of the project was to strengthen the delivery
mechanisms for service delivery, i.e. the institutions responsible for services (through
training and capacity building at national and LG level), and the financing of these services
(through the PRSCs and the Government financing of FDPCT), and not the actual delivery2.

20.    The PDO indicators reflected the PDO in the PAD in terms of increased budget spent
on maintenance and services at LG level. However, there was no specific indicator for
service delivery, and the PDO indicators did not fully take into account some of the
challenges with regards to attribution (e.g. increase in overall revenue collection as a general
1
  Due to these changes, project preparation formally only began in September 2005 when the design was agreed.
2
  It is important to note that the French version of the FA had a different formulation that appeared to be better aligned
with the project focus with the emphasis on strengthening mechanisms and capacities to ensure improved service
delivery. In the French FA, the development objective of the PRD was to strengthen the capacity of urban communes to
provide infrastructure and services to their communities, focusing in particular on the six major communes in Burkina
Faso (Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso, Kaya, Koudougou, Ouagadougou, and Ouahigouya). The intermediate results were:
Component 1: Strengthen the technical and financial capacity of Burkina Faso’s six main communes to program,
finance, deliver, and manage urban infrastructure and services. Result – Component 2: Strengthen the capacity of
institutions supporting municipalities and financing mechanisms for decentralization.




                                                            6
proxy for the effect of the activities related to improved revenue collection, rather than
having a more project specific indicator). In addition, the issue of Government co-financing
was unclear in the design - while clearly stipulated in the PAD (Government co-financing
estimated at US$ 400,000), this was not included in the FA.

21.     In the absence of direct financing of infrastructure, the project design rested on two
key assumptions: (i) that the linkages with PRSCs would ensure sufficient leverage to ensure
continuous momentum in decentralization reforms and allocation of national budget to
finance LGs, (ii) that the conditions built-in in the project design regarding the
operationalization of the FPDCT would be implemented and financed by the Government
and other development partners. For Burkina Faso, this design was innovative, but relatively
complex given the status of decentralization reforms and the configuration of key actors
involved in decentralization at the time of appraisal. Further, one could argue that the credit
available was relatively high given the fact that the project could only focus on TA and
capacity building – this may have contributed to the large number of thematic areas and
activities included in the design (and this is also reflected in the fact that the project credit
was not fully disbursed at project closing).

22.     The large and varied number of activities included in the project combined with the
complex institutional framework for implementation proved to be a risk for effective
implementation. The project initially had 3 components, 9 subcomponents, and 37 action
areas/activities (resulting in 49 contracts under implementation in the first two years of
implementation). The implementation arrangements included a steering committee,
involvement of four ministries, the municipalities, the FPDTC secretariat, the AMBF and
CBOs. The project design could have benefitted from a principle of selectivity, i.e. a reduced
number of activities and possibly focus within a few key areas of key importance, e.g. within
revenue management and expansion of revenue opportunities.

23.    The commitment of the Government was strong, particularly in the case of the
oversight ministry, which viewed the project as a vehicle for strengthening the
decentralization process through the establishment of a financial transfer mechanism for local
government investments. However, the ensuing challenges during implementation with
regards to coordination and oversight of implementing agencies were an indication that the
project ownership (and the understanding and support to the project implementation
framework) was not necessarily shared across all agencies.

24.    The ICR rates the quality at entry as moderately unsatisfactory for the reasons
outlined above.

2.2 Implementation
25.     The first three years of implementation were characterized by slow implementation,
low disbursement rates, and significant delays in all components. Some of the key factors for
delay include: (i) project management3 and coordination issues related to the coordination of

3
 Project management was initially constrained by (i) the coordination team operating in relative isolation from the
ministry, (ii) the limited experience of PIU staff, and (iii) the working relationship and coordination between the Team




                                                           7
many stakeholders and the continuous need for follow up and supervision of activities, (ii)
delays in recruitment of project staff, and (iii) management of procurement of activities, i.e.
substantial delays in procurement, and challenges in managing the large number of contracts
(up to 49 in the first two years). Following discussions between the Bank team and
counterpart at the end of 2010, disbursements increased and project implementation
improved, although final disbursement was 82.4% at project closure. The project was a
problem project/project at risk during 2010 and was rated Moderately Satisfactory at project
closure4.

26.     As previously mentioned, a level 2 restructuring was completed for the project in
November 2012 (refer section 1.7 for details). There was no formal midterm review, but a
comprehensive assessment of project progress was completed in October 2010.  The review
was conducted at a time when the project was rated MU and with a low disbursement rate
(33%) and slow implementation. The conclusions and decisions made as part of this review
(in particular with regards to planning and implementation of activities) helped to improve
project performance and increase disbursement by (i) refocusing activities on the ones
considered of critical importance (ii) eliminating the annual planning system for activities
and replacing it with multiyear planning; and (iii) adopting measures to strengthen
monitoring of implementation. At project closure, 32 of the total number of 37 activities, and
additional six activities were completed.  In light of the changes in the sector context (e.g.
delineation of the LGs, changes in guidelines for various revenue types, changes in municipal
contract approach) a review of the project results framework would have been pertinent.
However, no restructuring was completed at midterm.

27.     Government provided a total of US$ 95,740 as counterpart financing – substantially
short of the co-financing amount of US$ 400,000 quoted in the PAD5. The lack of provision
of national counterpart funds for the project, which would have helped cover expenditures
deemed ineligible for IDA financing, was the main cause for the gap in financing the
project’s operating cost (this necessitated the restructuring in 2012) and this lack of financing
also contributed to delays in implementation. The Government financing, as outlined in
project preparation documents, was expected to cover, among other things, costs associated
with meetings held by the steering committees – an important structure in multi-stakeholder
projects such as this.

28.    In addition to the factors outlined above, project implementation was affected by the
following key factors:




and the General secretariat which at times was not fully effective. These factors affected project ownership inside and
outside the ministry at the beginning of the project. However, following the reorganization of activities as part of the
midterm review in 2010, project management improved significantly. With regards to M&E, the project faced some
initial challenges in collecting reliable data. However, these constraints were addressed by hiring on an M&E specialist,
and accountant.
4
  Please note that the last ISR of the project was archived on February 10, 2013. Therefore, the system uses the ISR
rating from November 2012 which was Satisfactory. However, the correct final rating is Moderately Satisfactory.
5
  In Client Connection, this amount is US$ 1,700,000.




                                                           8
    (i)       Coordination challenges in the project’s monitoring and decision-making bodies
              (technical committee, focal points, steering committee) caused delays in contract
              preparation, and insufficient management of service contracts;
    (ii)      Inadequate integration of the project’s activities into the normal work programs of
              the relevant ministries, limited support for activities, and frequent changes at the
              implementing entities of officials responsible for monitoring activities and of
              focal points;
    (iii)     The change in project design and approach during preparation which increased
              the risks that some of the implementing agencies would not be fully supportive
              and aware of the revised approach and implementation framework, causing delays
              in implementation;
    (iv)      Fragmentation of procurement 6 and insufficient management and execution of
              procurement contracts, and
    (v)       Delays resulting from the shift in September 2011 from a system of manual
              processing of disbursement requests to an electronic one; and the suspension of
              disbursements between July and November 2012, following a halt in activities
              lasting almost four (4) months.

29.    In addition, a national sociopolitical crisis in March 2011 (causing disruption and
demonstrations in the capital) caused delays in and/or postponements of the implementation
of a number of activities (e.g., continuation of the studies on the SDAUs, and the launch of
combined activities—improved local tax collection and street addressing).

30.     Despite the challenges identified above, the project was able to complete a large set
of activities and achieve significant outputs across all components as outlined in Annex 2,
and as described in section 3.2 below.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

31.     The monitoring and evaluation system was designed to report on the performance of
each city and the implementation of the municipal contracts (investment, municipal finance
and administration, infrastructure maintenance) and to help strengthen the national
monitoring and evaluation framework for the decentralization process across the country in
the areas of local governance, economic development of the cities, intergovernmental fiscal
transfers, and municipal finances. The system also provided for the introduction of
instruments to gather the opinions of the communities on the quantity and quality of the
urban services provided.

32.     Overall, the implementation of the system was moderately satisfactory. Despite the
recruitment of an M&E specialist, the PCU was not able to consistently collect data and
report on progress on indicators on a consistent basis, but in the last two years of project
implementation the project team took specific actions to address deficits in the M&E

6
 At one point during implementation, the number of activities amounted to 250 due to the tendency to breakdown
activities into small contracts.




                                                        9
framework, including addressing data gaps and undertaking additional data collection
exercises. The MATD, in particular the Directorate General for Local Government (DGCL),
was central to the monitoring and evaluation system for purposes of collecting and validating
data. In the last year of implementation, deliberate efforts were undertaken to ascertain the
validity of data and to devise alternative measures to collect data for indicators that were no
longer valid (e.g. the indicator on CSI).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33.     Financial Management. Overall, the project had an adequate financial management
system that generally provided, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
that funds were being used for intended purposes. The accounting and financial procedures
were in line with national and Bank procedures. The project rating for financial and
accounting management has been Satisfactory until December 2010, Moderately Satisfactory
from December 2010 to January 2012, Moderately Unsatisfactory from January 2012 to July
2012 (due to substantial delays in reporting and one minor audit issue), and Moderately
Satisfactory from July 2012 to the closing date. The accounting system established by the
project was acceptable to the Bank, staffed with an experience accounting officer and clerk
accountant and delivered reports according to Bank standards and within the stipulated
deadlines. However, minor deficiencies were revealed with regards to assets management
and recording of advances. In addition, the project submitted acceptable financial monitoring
reports generally acceptable within the stipulated timeframe, with only two reports submitted
late and one minor audit issue which was resolved.

34.     Procurement. While difficulties in managing procurement affected overall project
implementation as outline above (in particular in the first three years of implementation), the
selection and implementation of contracts was in line with Bank requirements. The move
towards use of country systems, while fully in line with the Paris declaration, contributed to
delays in implementation due to capacity weaknesses. Further, procurement planning was
affected by the tendency to breakdown activities in many small contracts to allow for higher
participation of local firms and consultants, thus increasing the transaction costs of
procurement management. Towards the end of the project, the rating of procurement was
satisfactory. Through the implementation of the project, significant progress has been made
by all project implementation entities in the implementation of the procurement process of
goods and the selection of consultancy services.

35.     There were no safeguards issues in relation to the project as the project did not trigger
any of the Bank’s safeguards policies.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

36.    No formal transition arrangements have been put in place with regards to the project
coordination commitment and the PCU, but the reforms achieved as part of implementation
of the project are expected to continue – including Government financing of the FDPCT.
However, no specific follow up plan has been designed for several of the other project



                                             10
outputs, including financing of the implementation of the Urban Master plans produced for
twelve of the participating cities. During the last part of implementation, the Bank worked to
prepare a follow up operation focusing on specific investments and service delivery.
However, at the time of writing of this ICR, it was decided that the Bank will continue its
involvement on decentralization through the ongoing Local Government Support Project
which focuses on strengthening the central government’s capacity for decentralization7 and
the institutional capacities of municipalities (“communes?) in six regions, and to improve
accountability linkages between local policy makers and citizens in said municipalities. No
specific project on urban development is in the pipeline at this stage. Furthermore, the Bank
is planning to undertake an Urbanization Review for Burkina Faso – it is expected that this
review will provide important inputs for future engagement with the Government on the
urban sector.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

36. The relevance of the overall objective and design was substantial in the context of
Burkina Faso’s overall development strategy and decentralization reforms, and remains
substantial at project closure. The project objectives were aligned with and supported the
Government’s 2004 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the World Bank’s 2005
Country Assistance Strategy covering the period 2006-2009, particularly pillar four of the
PRSP and CAS - “better governance with greater decentralization?. The project was also
closely linked to the 2007-2009 Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) series and the
focus on promoting management of public resources and deepening decentralization reforms.
Furthermore, as described in section 2, the project was aligned and built on lessons and
reform dialogue under previous projects (including the Urban Environment Project). Finally,
the project was aligned with the Africa Action Plan with regards to (i) Results Framework for
Achieving Impact, (ii) Building Capable States and Increasing Transparency, and (iii)
Drivers of Growth. However, the relevance of project design was somewhat reduced by the
following factors that also appeared during implementation: (i) the complexity in institutional
arrangements and large number of activities at multiple levels which contributed to
somewhat uneven implementation, and (ii) lack of adjustment of the project in the light of the
Government’s decision to drop the municipal contract approach and the other changes in
specific areas (e.g. land titling, fiscal decentralization). While these factors affected the
relevance of project design and implementation, the adjustments made in last two years of
implementation (e.g. focusing on core activities, sustaining the FDPCT as financing
mechanism for LGs) were sufficient to justify that the relevance of the project remains
substantial.




7
    With particular emphasis on strengthening the systems for fiscal decentralization.




                                                             11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

37.      The development objective of the project was to strengthen the delivery of urban
services at the municipal level with special emphasis on Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso,
Koudougou, Banfora, Ouahigouya and Kaya. Provided the discrepancy in the formulation of
the PDO between various versions of the FA (see section 2.1 above) the PDO is assessed to
have been achieved. The project accomplished tangible and concrete results through
institutional gains and enhancement of the capacity of the municipalities (e.g. including
increased revenue collection, completion of urban master plans), resulting in the
strengthening of financed under FDPCT and benefitting the population of the six cities.

38.     The two PDO indicators (i) share of budget spent on infrastructure investments and
maintenance and (ii) increase in municipal revenue) have been achieved and the target values
exceeded for all six cities (except for Ouahigouya and Kaya which did not meet the targets
for increased revenue). Five out of eight intermediate indicators have been met - and for the
remaining three, one activity was dropped (issuance of land permits) because the activity was
included in an IFC operation8, and one was strongly affected by decisions made beyond the
control of the project (indicator on CSI tax collection9).

39.     With regards to strengthening of the capacity of the six municipalities, the project has
achieved the following results: (i) all six cities have adopted and are using transparent,
standardized, and efficient budget management procedures as specified in administrative
management procedures manual10, (ii) street addressing has been completed at 89% in 2011
against an original target of 80%, (iii) six city contracts have been signed against 19
expected 11 , and (iv) municipalities’ budget allocations provided adequate infrastructure
maintenance according to the rates listed in city contracts – average increases in budget spent
on maintenance and infrastructure was more than 40% in 2011 (and has been consistently
exceeding the baseline in this area), compared to the baseline.  Furthermore, the municipal
audits revealed that, as a result of the capacity building efforts, the six municipalities have
now taken ownership of the investment programming and maintenance processes, and have


8
   As indicated above, the project did not conduct any activities aimed at securing land titles for citizens in the cities. These
activities were not undertaken because they were already included in the “Doing Business? pilot program for 2007-2011.
These activities focused specifically on the issue of registration of the procedures required by a business to purchase
property from another business. This activity pertained to businesses and not private citizens seeking housing, but there was
some overlap with regards to the planned pilot exercise for the issuance of occupancy permits. IFC’s results in this regard
included: (i) the streamlining of procedures for obtaining a land title; and (ii) an increase in the number of land titles issued,
from 11 in 2006 to 4,503 in 2011 nationwide, far exceeding the urban project’s target of 75 percent.
9
   As part of the comprehensive decentralization process adopted in 2007, the territorial borders of communes changed.
Moreover, a significant number of taxpayers claiming to be part of the informal sector were transferred to the formal sector
by the DGI, thereby considerably reducing the number of CSI taxpayers. The project target was therefore not met. However,
by using the 2011 CSI collection rate as a basis for comparison, the exercise demonstrated that over a three year period, CSI
collection increased between 18% (Ouagadougou) and more than 110% (Ouahigouya), except two specific cases: Kaya and
Banfora.
10
   Following the effective implementation, the manual has been rolled out nationwide and all 351 urban and rural
communes of the country are now using the manual.
11
   This was a result of the phasing out of the municipal contract approach in 2010 following the introduction of the
FDPCT. The remaining 13 cities did not develop contracts because they had benefitted from the reform of the fiscal
transfer system which provided them with direct transfers.




                                                            12
assumed responsibility for the identification of their own capacity-building and municipal
administration needs.

40.     The combined approach of expanding street addressing and enhancing tax collection
has contributed to an overall improved performance and has improved local revenue
collection, as reflected in the increase of overall municipal revenue in the 6 target cities from
a total of 8.34m CFAF (approximately US$16.5m) at project start to a total of 17.32m CFAF
(approximately US$ 34m) by completion. The project activities have contributed
significantly to increases in revenue (e.g. through introduction of street addressing systems
and updating of tax registries and conducting of tax censes) – but no detailed assessment has
been completed to determine to what extent the increase in revenue can be attributed
specifically to the activities financed by the project.

41.     With regards to the specific objective of strengthening the delivery of urban services,
there is evidence that all six cities were able to consistently expand the provision of services
through the construction and maintenance of urban infrastructure. Urban infrastructure
investment projects (mainly in urban roads, education infrastructure, markets, drainages, and
health clinics) for a total of more than US$ 13m were delivered between 2008 and 2010
(refer annex 2) 12 . No data has been provided for the completion of additional services
between 2011 and 2012, but given that the FDPCT was providing financing in this period,
including to the six urban LGs, the additional expansion and delivery of services is assumed
to have taken place.

42.     At the national level, the project contributed to strengthening the capacity of key
national stakeholders and institutions involved in supporting municipalities in their effort to
provide services to their populations, as evidenced in the respective accomplishments of: (i)
the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHU), with the development of thirteen urban
master plans (SDAUs) and an urban database as planning and space management instruments
for urban LGs, and the deepening of operational public-private partnerships as a result of
strategic consultations in the public housing sector; (ii) the Ministry of Territorial
Administration and Decentralization (MATD), which received equipment and various
management tools (software, procedures manuals, technical guides, budget preparation
framework, and several staff capacity-building exercises; (iii) the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF), with improved collection of local taxes coupled with the street addressing
activities through the development and implementation of tools for identifying and collecting
local taxes, and new financial guidelines which was extended to all local governments; and
(iv) the Association of Municipalities of Burkina Faso (AMBF), with completion of street
addressing activities for the cities. The project was also effective in providing capacity
support at the central level aiming at supporting the municipalities through training, courses,


12
   The data on service delivery improvements was provided as part of the municipal contract approach applied from
2008-2010. The data represents the investments made financed within the municipal contract framework, and therefore
does not include all investments in all of the cities (e.g. cities may have financed additional infrastructure using own
source revenue funds and other resources received directly from development partners). It is important to note that
service delivery improvements can appear in different sub sectors in each city deepening on the priority of the city as
the FDPCT is largely a discretionary grant.




                                                          13
and financing of goods provided to the MATD, Ministry of Finance and Budget (MFB),
MHU and AMBF.

43.     With respect to strengthening financial mechanism that support decentralization and
local service delivery (as per component 2), the project contributed to the operationalization
of the FPDCT (hiring of the director was one of the conditions for project effectiveness, and
the project also provided support with infrastructure and the preparation of documents and
tools for FDPCT operations). The project was successful in leveraging Government financing
of the FDPCT – total allocations approved by Government amounted to US$30 million for
investment financing of municipal contracts for the period 2008-2010, and subsequently in
transfers. The FPDCT is still financed by Government and several development partners as
evidenced in the contributions to the FDPCT in 2012 which included substantial
contributions from development partners.

44.     In addition, the project has contributed to the following results: (a) the development
of a software that integrates national and local finances (CICT) (b) the development of a
classification, updating and consolidation of financial statements for local government
expenditures (NPJ - nomenclature des pièces justificatives)13, (c) setting up of an “Urban
Information System? to be managed by national and local governments, (d) the consolidation
of the solid waste management system in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, which began
under the Bank’s last urban project, Urban Environment Project (PACVU), (e) support for
housing and urban policy implementation, (f) support for setting up a “Strategic plan for
financing of social housing?, and (g) establishment of a Public-Private Partnership (PPP)
arrangement for social housing production.

45.     Finally, an analysis of the performance of Government with regards to budget support
triggers related to decentralization under PRSC 7-11 indicate that Government demonstrated
its overall commitment to reforms by complying with triggers associated with
decentralization, including three triggers linked to the objectives of the project (highlighted
in bold below). However, the annual contributions from Government to the FDPCT were
somewhat lower than envisaged due to the fact that Government was required to make other
budget priorities and that the PRSCs did not allow for ring-fencing the financing provided for
FDPCT.




13
     These two tools (CICT and NPJ) have eventually benefitted all the local governments in the country.




                                                      14
   Burkina Faso PRSCs – Pillar III : Improving access to basic social services through greater
   decentralization and strengthened institutional capacity
   PRSC 7
   Implementation of roadmap to meet water and sanitation MDGs                          Fulfilled
   Transfer of responsibilities and resources to municipalities and regions             Fulfilled
   Preparation of City Contracts for the six main cities                                Fulfilled
   PRSC 8                                                                               Fulfilled
   Transfer of responsibility for pre-schools and primary schools facilities to the 49 Fulfilled
   Municipalities
   Transfer of ownership of the real estate assets of health facilities to the 49 Fulfilled
   Municipalities
   Implementation of strategy to maintain new water points and transfer of 25 water Fulfilled
   piped systems to rural municipalities
   Strengthening of decentralized budget management procedures                          Fulfilled
   PRSC 9                                                                               Fulfilled
   •        Decentralization in basic education through financial transfers to Fulfilled
   49municipalities and the transfer of investment funds
   •        Decentralization in water and sanitation through the signature of operation Fulfilled
   protocols for the management of the transferred services
   •        Financing economic and social infrastructure projects in four Fulfilled
   municipalities beyond Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
   Source: PRSC 7-11 ICR, pp 4-5

46.   Based on the analysis above, the ICR rates the overall achievement of the PDO as
moderately satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

47.     At the design stage, the PAD clarified that ERR and cost benefit analyses are not
applicable for this type of project in which the investments are for services at the national and
local level (training, studies, and goods). Therefore, two main focus areas can be applied to
assess the efficiency of the project: (a) project costs and (b) core thematic areas relevant for
return to investment (as identified in the PAD): (i) better performing LGs and public
administration to mobilize and manage resources for better service delivery to the population;
(ii) improved fiduciary environment, and (ii) improvement of transparency and
accountability of the fiscal transfer mechanisms.

48.      With regards to project costs, an assessment of the utilization of resources under the
project indicates that the costs of services and goods were reasonable and comparable to
costs of similar activities in other projects in the country. Due diligence was ensured in the
procurement processes under the project resulting in acceptable costs for goods and services
provided. None of the components had significant cost overruns, and the overall level of
utilization of resources was less than 90% of the total credit. The revenues of all six
municipalities almost doubled in period from the project baseline to project completion.




                                              15
49.      With regards to three intended thematic areas listed as a measurement for efficiency
in the PAD, it can be concluded that all three were achieved efficiently, demonstrating
relevant returns to investments made under the project:
    (i) Better performing urban LGs and public administration to mobilize and manage
         resources for better service delivery: increased revenues and share of budget spent
         on maintenance and investments and improvements in the general performance of the
         LGs as evidenced in the municipal contract evaluations.
    (ii) Improved fiduciary environment: (a) introduction of financial management (FM)
         standards, regulations and guidelines for all LGs resulting in improvements in
         performance, (b) introduction of relevant software leading to the integration of LG
         financial management with those of central government agencies, and improved
         accountability due to the fact that the Mayor, the Controller and the internal auditor
         are connected to the same computer network, and real-time knowledge of the level of
         processing any financial records, (c) improved classification of expense vouchers,
         which applies to all local authorities in the country, and (d) roll out of revenue ratios
         has been systematized and is assisting LGs in determining and projection annual local
         revenues.
    (iii) Improvement of transparency and accountability of the fiscal transfer mechanisms:
         (a) the project contributed to the operationalization of the FPDCT equipment,
         development and dissemination of management tools and staff training, and
         institutional support for the setup of the FDPCT,  leading to institutionalization of a
         dedicated transfer mechanism to local governments and (b) beyond the project, the
         FPDCT has been consolidated and has become a mainstream grant mechanism
         funded partially by Government, partially by DPs.

50.    Based on the findings above, the project is assessed to have achieved an acceptable
and adequate level of efficiency.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

51.     The overall project outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project remains
substantially relevant in the context of the overall decentralization reforms in Burkina Faso.
Overall project efficacy was moderately satisfactory. The PDO indicators were met (and in
some cases, targets were exceeded). The project also provided crucial input into the reforms
across several different sub sectors, including on (i) revenue collection, (ii) FM, (iii)
completion of city specific tools and instruments (street addressing, urban master plans), and
strengthening of key institutions involved in oversight and management of the
decentralization process.

52.     While no cost benefit analysis conducted due to the nature of the design and project
investments, the project was efficient and the costs overall were reasonable and comparable
to similar costs. The project accomplished to improved efficiency in the three areas as set out
in the design.




                                             16
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53.    The project did not include particular emphasis on poverty, gender or social
development. No tracking survey or study was completed to assess the number and
characteristics of the beneficiaries of the investment projects implemented at LG level.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

54.     The project contributed to institutional strengthening of the LGs (particular with
regards to revenue collection and FM) and of the national institutions involved in oversight
and management of decentralization reforms through the provision of training and technical
assistance. The main achievements with regards to institutional change were: (i) the
assistance that the project provided to national institutions in setting up and operationalizing
the FDPCT, (ii) the strengthening of the regulatory framework for financial management at
LG level through the development and roll out of standardized software, guidelines and
regulations for all LGs in the country, and (iii) the completion of urban planning tools
(including the urban master plans, setting up of street addressing units at LG level, and
rolling out the integrated local accounts system (CICT) to all LGs) which resulted in
significant strengthening of the management and organizational capacity of LGs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

55.      The risks to maintaining the development outcome as well as the risks for the
decentralized framework for service delivery are rated as moderate. The main threats to the
outcomes are with regards to (i) capacity constraints (operational, human resources and
staffing, and technical) at LG level, (ii) sustainability of the coordination and oversight
mechanisms set up by the project at national level, and (iii) sudden policy changes (including
if government financing of FDPCT reduces). The risks have been mitigated by the following
achievements: (i) the consolidation of FDPCT as a financing instrument for LGs which has
ensured that the LGs have access to stable and predictable resources financed in the national
budget supplemented by development partners, (ii) the improvements with regards to the
institutional and legal framework for coordination and management of decentralization and
urban development, and (iii) the relative improvements in capacity at LG level which at this
point should be sufficient for the six cities to manage and maintain the assets provided.




                                            17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

56.    The project was designed as a sectoral investment project financed by IDA, was
reconfigured to be aligned with the World Bank’s new Poverty Reduction Support Credits
(PRSC 7-9) for Burkina Faso, which supported the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP). The objectives were aligned with the 2006–2009 Country Assistance Strategy and
consistent with the decentralization and urban development context. Considerable
preparation time including an extensive policy dialogue with the Government and local
governments helped ensure agreement on the measures selected and the political
commitments to be made, including the arrangements for FDPCT and Government co-
financing. The project was also aligned with other Bank operations, including the PRSCs and
the Municipal Capacity Building Project.

57.     However, the institutional set up of the project (including project management and
coordination) involving a high number of implementing entities and stakeholders in a
emerging institutional environment combined with the multiplicity of activities covering a
wide range of sub sectors and topics, and the administrative, technical and logistical
implications of such a setup was not sufficiently assessed as part of appraisal – e.g. with
regards to convening power of the PCU and the coordination and technical capacities of
different ministries. Moreover, the financing agreement did not explicitly identify the
modalities for covering the project’s operating costs, and it did not reflect the contribution
from the Government mentioned in the PAD. Lastly, with respect to the results framework,
the choice of indicators, some of which were beyond the project’s direct scope of influence,
did not facilitate their full achievement, and the focus in the PDO on service delivery was not
justified based on the project components that focused on technical assistance and capacity
building.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

58.     The Bank provided support to project implementation through day-to-day support
from the Burkina Country office and through a total of eight supervision missions with
sufficient and qualified personnel as required. Recommendations provided in aide memoires
were relevant, highlighting the project’s operational constraints and suggesting the most
suitable methods of resolving them. Overall, the team proved responsive to the problems that
arose during project execution and collaborated in a positive manner to resolve them.
Implementation support was somewhat less consistent in the last two years of the project –
only three formal missions were completed during the last two years of implementation,
although this was a time in which new activities were implemented and other activities had
been dropped. In parallel with the project, the role of the World Bank team was instrumental
in developing the budget support triggers that would advance the decentralization agenda,



                                            18
including working closely with Government on the establishment and effective provision of
budget resources to the FPDCT.

59.    Implementation support was somewhat affected by the frequent change of Task Team
Leaders – a total of four TTLs were involved during the life of the project between
preparation and closure. These changes contributed to reducing the continuity with respect to
the monitoring of activities and dialogue with the client. Also, in a few cases, a few delays
were noted with regards to the Bank response on client requests.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Based on the observations above, the overall performance of the World Bank is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

60.     The Government demonstrated considerable commitment overall to achieving the
project’s development objectives as well as a strong will to assume ownership of institutional
framework—together with a new framework characterized by the priority accorded to budget
support—and to executing the project without parallel units. Among other factors, the
implementation efforts of the CGCT in December 2004, the establishment of the urban
planning ministry in 2006, and the creation and financing of the FPDCT are clear indicators
of this commitment. The establishment of the FDPCT contributed significantly to the
achievement of the project’s objectives.

61.     However, there were also shortfalls in Government performance. The counterpart
funding agreed in the PAD was not fully provided (only 23% of the financing committed).
This affected operational costs and resulted in the need for restructuring of the project.
Ownership of and clarity about the project’s institutional framework was not always obvious
among the implementing agencies, in view of the recurring delays in the preparation of terms
of reference for activities, procurement and contract management, and the validation of
evaluation reports, among other areas. At the institutional level, the project suffered from
inadequate support from the three ministries involved in the project’s official committees and
high turnover of staff. The steering committee often lacked the authority to support the
actions of the technical implementing units of the ministries involved, as well as with respect
to the tasks related to adoption of the action plans within the required timeframes. The
committee was affected by irregularity of meetings and the frequent changes of members.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

62.   Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU was able to convene regular steering
committee meetings and oversee project implementation. However, based on the project


                                            19
implementation challenges, the PCU’s technical and managerial capacities were not fully
commensurate with the complexity of the project’s institutional framework and the large
number of implementing agencies. One reason for the limitation in performance was the lack
of a signed implementation agreement between the oversight ministry and the other
ministries involved in the project. This agreement could have clarified the roles and
responsibilities for the implementing agencies. Moreover, the PCU did not benefit from the
projected technical assistance from the MATD over time. Although it contributed
significantly to the holding of regular meetings of the project entities, the PCU had consistent
challenges with regards to effective project management, including procurement, financial
management, and overall coordination of activities. The performance of the PCU is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

63.     Ministries involved in the project (MEF, MATD, MHU). The ministries were
responsible for preparing, implementing, and evaluating activities related to each agency.
The ministries took on these responsibilities and the associated roles effectively, but with
recurrent delays with regards to implementation of activities. The delays were also caused by
challenges with regards to contract management in terms supervision of service providers
and validation of intermediate reports. The performance of the ministries is rated moderately
satisfactory.

64.     Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments (FPDCT). The activities
entrusted to the FPDCT were all completed. The FDPCT was able to provide financing for
investments for six urban LGs, for a total sum of US$ 30 million (2008-2010) via the
Treasury, through budget allocations from the Government. The FDPCT did, however,
encounter limitations and constraints associated with the slow pace of disbursements to LGs
and the quality of monitoring of municipal contracts (inadequate infrastructure maintenance
by the LGs). The performance of the FPDCT is rated Satisfactory.

65.      Association of Municipalities of Burkina Faso (AMBF). Despite some delays in
the first two years of implementation, the AMBF completed almost all its planned activities.
The performance of the AMBF is rated Satisfactory.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Based on the findings above, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

66.     Linking capacity building and budget support processes to provide financing for local
investment and enhance reforms requires strong selectivity in areas of intervention and a
clear institutional framework for implementation. Implementation of a project exclusively
focused on capacity building and technical assistance requires choosing a limited number of
high-impact activities and linking these activities to obvious and realistic results at national
and local level. The project could potentially have achieved more by focusing on narrower
element of the decentralization and urban reform agenda – e.g. (i) assisting Government in


                                            20
designing a comprehensive intergovernmental fiscal framework and thus focusing on fiscal
decentralization beyond the FDPCT itself or (ii) by working directly on strengthening the
delivery capacity of LGs by expanding the access to training and developing minimum
standards for human resources at LG level, and thus contributing systematically to
administrative decentralization.

67.     Mainstreaming project management responsibility in government entities with the
support of a small coordination team may be a positive innovation, but requires consistent
and rigorous implementation support. Without adequate implementation support including
management of the implementation delays, systematic efforts to address coordination
challenges and targeted actions to speed up procurement, it may be difficult to make project
activities an integral part of the normal activities of the beneficiary ministries and entities in a
low capacity environment.

68.      Readiness of activities, implementing stakeholders and substantial Bank support in
initial stages of implementation is critical for effective implementation projects with complex
institutional arrangements. The development of terms of reference and/or the preparation of
bidding documents during project preparation could have reduced implementation delays.

69.    Advancing policy dialogue and reforms through combination of budget support and
standalone operations can be effective in achieving reform gains. However, the changing
context of such reforms require a flexible, adaptive, and proactive approach in which targets
and priority areas are carefully selected, regularly reviewed, and, if necessary, revised.
Furthermore, the impact of reform and capacity building activities requires time to
materialize.

70.     Designing and implementing a stand-alone capacity building project requires clear
incentives, goals and institutional frameworks. In order to succeed, activities must be linked
to management frameworks, daily operational procedures, and organizational targets of the
beneficiary institution. The global lesson on capacity support to LGs is that supply driven
exercises are rarely effective in creating enhanced performance unless they are linked with a
system of incentives (e.g. performance based contracting for staff or grants to LGs).

71.    The application of Technical Assistance Loans may be better justified and
manageable in a short to medium term policy reform area with tangible and timely outputs.
Given the broad reform context at the time of design, the Bank could have considered
applying an APL to enhance the strategic focus and sequencing of reform priority areas, and
make financing dependent on specific areas of progress (similar to a DPL series)14.  
 
 
 
 

14
  In fact, the Local Government Support Project currently under implementation in Burkina has applied an APL
approach – although also with a considerably larger resource envelope (US$ 150m in total).




                                                       21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies - N/A




                                           22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                     Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                            millions)

            Total Baseline Cost            9.91                 10.15             102%
Price Contingencies
                                           0.09                  0.00              0.00
            Total Project Costs           10.00                 10.15             101%
     Total Financing Required             10.00                  8.36             84%




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                      Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
Borrower                             Co funding           0.4        0.09        23%
International Development
                                                        10.00           8.36          84%
Association (IDA)




                                             23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Summary of the outputs of Component 1: Municipal Support Program

Activities                                          Outputs                           Comments
Subcomponent 1.1: Strengthening programming and urban management capacity
Municipal audits for the six    Six municipal contracts (CDV) signed and          The combined
main urban municipalities        implemented over the 2008-2010 period;            findings of the
for the first generation of     Thirty-nine (39) focus reports (urban audits,     municipal audits
municipal contracts,             financial audits and organizational audits) for   and the evaluation
updating the audits for a        the regional capitals                             of the municipal
second generation of            Thirteen (13) general municipal audit reports     contracts form a
municipal contracts, and         for the regional capitals                         good basis for
subsequent audits for the       One (1) methodological guide on conducting        additional
remaining regional capitals      municipal audits                                  interventions
                                Fifty (50) municipal department managers          addressing gaps
                                 trained on the methodological guide on            and areas of
                                 municipal audits                                  improvement for
                                Nine (9) national consultants trained on the      each of the LGs
                                 methodological guide on municipal audits
Updating or developing city     Twelve (12) satellite photos covering the          The photos
plans and satellite photos of    thirteen (13) regional capitals                     purchased
12 regional capitals, with the  Two satellite imagery processing software           consolidate the
exception of Ouagadougou         licenses                                            urban database
                                Ten (10) Ministry of Housing and Urban             The photos
                                 Planning (MHU) managers trained on the              purchased were
                                 satellite imagery processing software               used to develop
                                                                                     urban master
                                                                                     plans (SDAU)
                                                                                     for the regional
                                                                                     capitals
Evaluation and updating of         The Urban Information System was updated        Data sharing
the Urban Information               for the cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-          procedures were
System (UIS), and linking it        Dioulasso (study report available)               defined in the
to the collection of the public    The Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning       study report, but
land use tax (Taxe de               (MHU) has an updated tool for urban data         the new system
Jouissance)                         management                                       is not yet
                                                                                     operational




                                                24
Completing and                    Full street addressing for the cities of Banfora    The street
consolidating the                  and Koudougou                                       addressing data
implementation of the street      Additional street addressing for the other cities   were used for the
addressing system where it         (Bobo-Dioulasso, Kaya, Ouagadougou and              tax census
exists, conducting full street     Ouahigouya)                                         conducted in the
addressing operations in          Some one hundred street addressing unit             six (6) recipient
Banfora and Koudougou,             managers trained on street addressing               cities
and a study for the                techniques for the six cities
implementation of street          IT and street addressing equipment purchased
addressing in the remaining        for the six cities’ street addressing units
seven regional capitals           Street addressing databases set up in the six
                                   cities
                                  Updating and printing of the city plans
                                  Skills and capacity building on street
                                   addressing database maintenance and updating
                                   for street addressing unit managers; they are
                                   now equipped to be able to conduct future
                                   street addressing operations in the cities
                                   concerned

Activities                                             Outputs                             Comments
Training for the municipal       Training of more than 200 municipal department        These outputs
departments and elected          managers trained on public project and program        improved the
officials                        monitoring & evaluation and results-based             skills of the
                                 management, general public procurement                recipient managers
                                 regulations and public service procurement,           and built the
                                 urban and municipal management, and on fiscal         municipalities’
                                 strategy instruments                                  capacities.
                                 Baseline study on solid waste management in
                                 the cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
Consolidating the solid          (study report), Action plan and recommendations
waste management systems         for improvements to the solid waste management
in Ouagadougou and Bobo-         systems in the cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso                        Dioulasso (study report), Monitoring report on
                                 the implementation of the recommendations
Supporting the identification    Eight (8) training sessions on social project         These outputs
of community-based projects      management, and 100 municipal managers and            improved the
included in the PIPs             elected officials trained on social project           skills of the
                                 management                                            recipient managers
                                                                                       and built the
                                                                                       municipalities’
                                                                                       capacities to
                                                                                       prepare, conduct
                                                                                       and manage local
                                                                                       investments.




                                                 25
Providing logistical support   IT equipment and office furniture and               This equipment
to the six targeted            equipment were purchased for the municipal          built the municipal
municipalities (furniture,     departments of the project’s six recipient          departments’
office and IT equipment)       municipalities                                      operational
                                                                                   capacities and
                                                                                   improved the
                                                                                   quality of the
                                                                                   services provided
                                                                                   to the general
                                                                                   public
Supporting the development     The activities planned (assist the municipalities
and monitoring of the          with the preparation and implementation of the
Priority Maintenance           PMPs) were not carried out.
Programs (PMP)

Activities                                        Outputs                             Comments
Subcomponent 1.2: Strengthening Financial Resource Mobilization
Support to the               (i) Over one hundred census takers mobilized          The evaluation of
implementation of residence (recruited and trained) to conduct the tax census,     the results of the
tax in Ouagadougou and       (ii) IT and miscellaneous equipment purchased         tax census found a
Bobo-Dioulasso and           for the departments in charge of collecting           sharp increase in
extension of support to the  residence tax and the Informal Sector                 collection of
cities of Kaya, Banfora,     Contribution (CSI) tax, (iii) CSI application         revenues.
Koudougou and Ouahigouya software updating, settings and user training ,
                             (iv) Street addressing expert mobilized to help
Support to the Informal      the General Tax Directorate (DGI) manage and
Sector Contribution (CSI)    supervise the tax census operations 
tax collection chain



Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening administrative and financial management of the municipalities
                             (i)Software for the integrated local government
                             accounts system (CICT), (ii) Ten managers from
                             the Directorate General for the Treasury and
                             Public Accounting (DGTCP) and several others
Computerization of           from the municipality of Ouagadougou trained
municipal financial          on the CICT software, (iii) Training of municipal
management and training      managers (authorizing officers and accountants)
                             and other actors involved in the municipal
                             spending chain (budget, treasury and financial
                             control), (iv) Deployment of the software in the
                             six Decentralized Urban Capacity Building
                             Project (PRD) recipient municipalities




                                               26
Activities                                           Outputs                         Comments
                                    Diagnostic report on economic
                                     infrastructure management
Diagnostic of economic              Action plan to build municipalities’
infrastructure management            economic infrastructure management
and support to improve the           capacities
revenues generated by these         Economic infrastructure management
infrastructures                      monitoring and self-evaluation tools
                                    Purchase of IT equipment for the
                                     municipal departments in charge of
                                     economic infrastructure management
                                    Nomenclature of local government           Adoption of the NPJ-
                                     bookkeeping vouchers (NPJ-CT)               CT by Joint Order
Development of training              (revenue and expenditure) drawn up,         No. 2009-
modules on budget                    printed and disseminated                    257/MEF/MATD of
preparation and financial           NPJ-CT user manual drafted, printed and     July 15, 2009
analysis, workshops and on-          disseminated                                followed by its
site training, and design of a      Financial circuit actors from Burkina       implementation in all
budget preparation and               Faso’s 49 urban LGs trained on the NPJ-     531 urban and rural
financial management                 CT and its user manual                      municipalities
manual                                                                          These outputs
                                                                                 improved the
                                                                                 regulatory framework
                                                                                 for local government
                                                                                 financial management
                                                                                 and built the
                                                                                 capacities of the
                                                                                 central and devolved
                                                                                 Ministry of Economy
                                                                                 and Finance entities
                                                                                 to conduct their
                                                                                 support tasks – advice
                                                                                 to local authorities
Additional activities
Assistance to the disseminate    Preparation of documents subsequent to        These outputs brought
and imp-implement new            Directive No. 01/2011/CM/UEMOA:               the regulatory
directive on the financial       budget preparation and execution procedure    framework for local
system for local government      guide, authorizing officer’s guide, tax       government financial
                                 collector’s guide                             management into line
                                                                               with the subregional
                                                                               community provisions

Summary of the outputs of Component 2: Support to decentralized urban development
institutions and stakeholders

Activities                                      Outputs                          Comments
Subcomponent 2.1: Support to financial transfer mechanisms to fund local government investments




                                                 27
Periodic technical assistance    (i)Local finance database management
to the Ministry of Territorial   software, (ii) Twenty MATDS and regional         Improvement of
Administration and               managers trained on the local finance             knowledge on the
Decentralization (MATD) to       database management software, (iii)               local authorities’
set up the Local Finance         Devolution plan for the local finance             financial situation
Observatory and publish an       database management system, (iv) Local           Better fiscal
annual finance ratio guide       government finance ratio guides completed         management visibility
                                 for 1995-2006, 2007 and 2008, (v) IT              at local government
                                 equipment for the MATDS for the local             level
                                 finance database, (vi) Preparation of an
                                 analytic report on the financial situation of
                                 the local authorities for the 2006-2010
                                 period, (vii) Printing and dissemination of
                                 the 2008 and 2009 local government finance
                                 ratio guides
Support to establish the         (i)IT equipment and office furniture and        These outputs helped
instruments and procedures       equipment for the Permanent Development         make the FPDCT
for the Permanent                Fund for Local Governments (FPDCT), (ii)        operational and embed
Development Fund for Local       FPDCT tools and procedures (technical           the FDPCT in the local
Governments (FPDCT),             procedures manual, financing code, rules of     investment financing
including logistics, training    procedure, M&E system, budgetary                system under direct
and communication                accounts plan, website, communication           management by the
                                 strategy, and management software               local authorities
                                 package), (iii) A reference document on
                                 sustainable financing for the FPDCT,
                                 endorsed by all the stakeholders, (iv) A
                                 report on M&E system training for staff and
                                 managers in the regional agencies, (v)
                                 Purchase of a software package for the
                                 FPDCT, (vi) Development of a sustainable
                                 financing mechanism for the FPDCT, (vii)
                                 FPDCT M&E system training for staff and
                                 managers in the regional offices




                                                28
Activities                                    Outputs                                Comments
Subcomponent 2.2: Urban planning
Modification and            (i)IT equipment to monitor the urban master        Ownership by the
simplification of the       plans (SDAU), (ii) Final report on the urban       recipients and local
preparation process and     master plans (SDAU) for the 12 regional            stakeholders due to
content of urban master     capitals                                           their close involvement
plans (SDAU), and support                                                      in the different stages
to the Ministry of Housing                                                     of the development and
and Urban Planning (MHU)                                                       approval process via
                                                                               discussion forums,
                                                                               focus workshops and
                                                                               regional workshops
Support for specific           (i)Strategy for safeguarding public land        Three social housing
activities of the national     reserves in the municipality of Bobo-           construction
housing policy and strategy    Dioulasso, (ii) Strategic plan to fund social   agreements were signed
for safeguarding public land   housing, (iii) Regulatory framework for the     with private promoters
reserves, including the        public-private partnership to fund social
development of a strategic     housing, (iv)Study report on setting up self-
plan for the Caisses           build assistance, (v)Purchase of equipment
Populaires in the social       for the self-build assistance bureau,
housing sector                 (vi)Development of a strategic plan to fund
                               social housing
                                                                                The study on
Establishing a local           Equipment for the Ministry of Economy and         developing the
economic development           Finance (Directorate General for Regional         database management
observatory at the Ministry    Planning and Local and Regional                   software for the urban
of Economy and                 Development – DGAT-DLR) to set up the             economic
Development (MEDEV) to         urban economic development observatory.           development
support secondary city                                                           observatory was not
development                                                                      conducted due to the
                                                                                 consultant’s failure to
                                                                                 deliver. This
                                                                                 prevented the urban
                                                                                 economic
                                                                                 development
                                                                                 observatory from
                                                                                 becoming
                                                                                 operational.




                                               29
Activities                                         Outputs                            Comments
Subcomponent 2.3: Institutional strengthening
Training and logistical        (i)Equipment for the (MATDS entities in          Outputs contributed to
support to the Directorate     charge of local government support and           building the operational
General for Local              consultancy, (ii) General Code of Local          capacities of the
Government (DGCL) and          Government drafted and 5,000 copies              MATDS entities in
permanent secretariat of the   circulated, (iii) Four hundred (400) officials   terms of local
Ministry of Territorial        graduated from the National Magistrate           government support
Administration and             School, trained in local government              and consultancy
Decentralization (MATD)        operations, (iv) One (1) catalogue on
                               municipality management irregularities
                               drafted and disseminated to local authorities
Implementation of and          Four (4) managers trained in the following       These outputs helped
training on national M&E       areas: Operational planning and project          improve the recipient
systems for all regional       control, Project and program monitoring &        managers’ expertise
capitals, MATD, Ministry of evaluation, Urban development                       and build operational
Finance and Budget (MFB), management                                            capacities in local
Ministry of Economy and                                                         government support
Development (MEDEV) and
Ministry of Housing and
Urban Planning (MHU),
including surveys to monitor
results and evaluations of
impact on beneficiaries
Support to the Association of (i)IT equipment and office equipment and          The actions conducted
Municipalities of Burkina      furniture for the Executive Secretariat and      helped build the
Faso (AMBF) to carry out       the Permanent Secretariats (regional agency      AMBF’s capacities in
training programs and          offices), (ii) Some 15 managers from the         assisting local
implement street addressing    AMBF permanent secretariats trained in           authorities and
                               local government operations and the              promoting
                               principles of inter-municipal cooperation,       intermunicipal
                               (iii) Training sessions held as part of the      cooperation
                               AMBF strategic plan (training for local
                               elected officials), (iv) Some 100 local
                               elected officials trained under the AMBF
                               strategic training plan, (v) A simplified
                               procedures manual, (vi) A management
                               software program and training for four (4)
                               AMBF managers
Private sector training        (i)Four (4) training sessions held for
                                private sector construction and civil
                                engineering operators (at least 200
                                participants), (ii) Structural A&D
                                software for the Ministry of Housing
                                and Urban Planning (MHU), (iii) Sixty
                                civil engineers trained on structural
                                A&D software
Additional activities




                                                30
                                 Basic documents (organizational and
Support to the Ministry of       forward-looking study, analysis of
Housing and Urban Planning       operations for the first five (5) years of the
(MHU) to set up an urban         urban development fund (FAU), draft
development fund (FAU)           regulations, draft organization chart, and
                                 draft establishment decree) to be used to
                                 assist in establishing the urban development
                                 fund

Activities                                         Outputs                           Comments
Ownership of the new              Printing of 5,000 information packs on
implementation texts on the        the new legislation adopted by the
General Code of Local              Council of Ministers
Government (CGCT), Act
No. 055 and Act No. 027
Build the MATDS’s                 MATDS managers trained in strategic
planning capacities for sector     and operational planning, drafting reports
policy ownership                   and activity programs
Build the capacities of the       Purchase of folders for the supervision of
MATDS and the                      individual local government officials’
municipalities in local            dossiers
government human resources        Reports on the support-consultancy
management                         missions to the local authorities on
                                   human resources management
Support to the Directorate        Report on the workshop to examine the
General for Regional               basic documents on the national regional
Planning and                       specialization policy and the national
Decentralization Assistance        policy to promote regional investments
(DGAT-AD) to finalize the
national regional
specialization policy and the
national policy to promote
regional investments
Build the MHU’s planning          Report on the MHU manager training
capacities for sector policy       workshop on planning tools (strategic
ownership                          planning, operational planning, financial
                                   planning, procurement, and operating
                                   procedures for the municipal technical
                                   departments)

Summary of the outputs of Component 3: Information-communication project management,
monitoring, and evaluation

Activities                                         Outputs                        Comments/Initial
                                                                                     impacts
Subcomponent 3.1: Project management and coordination
National technical assistance Regular project monitoring reports
(PMT contract staff) to the
MATD departments
involved in project


                                                 31
management
PMT equipment                    IT equipment, office equipment and
Information technology,          furniture, and logistical means for the
office equipment, and            project management team
logistical means to manage
the project
PMT operations                   Minutes of the committee meetings
Project steering committee
meetings
Financing of operating
expenses for the project team
Technical assistance to the      One (1) report on assistance to the project
project implementing entities    implementing entities
Short-term assistance to
ministries and municipalities
to carry out their tasks
Advanced training for PMT    The PMT managers were given training on:
managers                      Urban development management
Provision for participation of
                              Results-based management
key staff in relevant         Operational planning and project
workshops and training          monitoring & evaluation
                              Procurement
                              Advanced management software modules
Subcomponent 3.2: Project monitoring and evaluation
Seminars and workshops
Workshops at project launch, Report on the launch workshop
mid-term review and closure
Evaluation of municipal       One (01) methodological guide on                In addition to the
contracts (CDV)                 municipal contract (CDV) evaluation            municipal contract
Evaluation of municipal       Evaluation methodology training for             (CDV) implementation
contracts and regular           twenty-six (26) managers (managers             lessons learned,
implementation progress         from the Ministry of Territorial               evaluation findings
workshops                       Administration, Decentralization and           could be used to
                                Security (MATDS), particularly the             develop and implement
                                Directorate General for Regional               a second generation
                                Government (DGCT), the Permanent               municipal contract
                                Development Fund for Local                     (CDV).
                                Governments (FPDCT) and the
                                Directorate for Assessment and Forward
                                Planning (DEP) as well as the municipal
                                departments of Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso,
                                Kaya, Koudougou, Ouagadougou and
                                Ouahigouya)
                              Six (6) self-evaluation reports on the
                                implementation of the municipal
                                contracts (CDV)
                              One (1) evaluation report on the
                                implementation of the municipal
                                contracts (CDV)



                                                 32
Activities                                      Outputs                    Comments/Initial
                                                                              impacts
Technical assistance
Technical assistance for
regular project monitoring
and evaluation (support
mission)
Information and              One full-page insertion in Les Annales du
communication on the         Premier Ministre in 2009 and 2010
project
Communication, publication
and dissemination of project
outcomes
Subcomponent 3.3: Regular audits
                                                                          Unqualified audit
                                                                           opinions for four of
Audits of project financial   Five (5) audit reports on the project’s      five financial years’
statements                    financial statements                         accounts
Annual financial audits of
project accounts




                                              33
Municipal Contract Outputs (service delivery) by Local Governments – 2008-2010
              Investment type      Project Description                           Cost (USD)
Banfora       Urban Road           Construction, asphalting and traffic lights   770'000
2008
Banfora       Education – Class    One level building with 8 classrooms,         161'864
2009          Rooms                Municipal school Hema Fadouah
              Commercial           Bus station                                   426,048
              infrastructure

Banfora       Urban roads          "Mamadou Kone Street"asphalting and           292,545
2010                               drainage
              Education -          One level building with 8 classrooms          155,610
              infrastructure
              Commercial           Construction of city's new market             533,509
              infrastructure
              Community projects   Unspecified.                                  142,400

              Rainwater drainage   Main drains construction                      955,374

Bobo          Urban land           Paving of public squares: "Ouezzin            1'042'667
2008          management           Coulibaly" square and Hospital square
                                   Construction of a Junction                    370,399

              Urban land           Construction of traffic circle                870,310
              management
Bobo          Urban Roads          Urban Roads Rehabilitation : "Sakidi          395'816
2009                               Sanon", "Avenue de la Nation" Avenue de
                                   la liberte' Street rehabilitation
              Urban Roads          Roads improvements (upgrading of unpaved      1'061'589
                                   roads)

              Health and           Upgrading of infrastructure in Bobo-          41,232
              education            Dioulasso
                                   Health center wall fence (Bolomakote)         13,018

                                   Library wall fence rehabilitation             94,406

                                   Wall fence rehabilitation : "Women house",    122,905
                                   Health center, school
                                   Crossing structure construction on "5.11"     17'628
                                   Street
              Civil engineering    Bridge construction between two subareas -    119'438
              structure            (Signoghin - Boulmiougou)
Kaya 2008     Investment type      Project Description                           Cost (USD)
              Sanitation           Main drain construction                       338,762

              Education            Grammar school extension                      114,574

              Education            Construction of a Grammar school              57'437



                                          34
                                      laboratory
Kaya 2009     Rainwater drainage      Primary and secondary gutters construction     329'609
Koudougou     Health                                                                 229,768
2008                                   Dental and ophthalmological clinic


              Sanitation              Main drains construction. 2300m                378,601

              Commercial              Feasibility and technical study                489,000
              infrastructure
              Market
Koudougou     Rainwater drainage      Feasibility and technical study for gutters    21,946
2009
Ouagadougou Urban street              "Avenue du progrès" construction and           1,562,187
2008                                  asphalting
                                      "19.30" and "17.32"streets construction and    1'466'051
                                      asphalting
            Administrative            Municipal archive building construction        637,987
            building
Ouagadougou Civil engineering         Bridge construction                            535,647
2009        structure
            Municipal library         Municipal library construction                 792,741

              Administrative          A three level building construction            760,245
              building                extensible to five levels

              Urban roads             "30.02" street construction and asphalting     1,347,300

                                      "22.72", "24.32",24.45" streets construction   1,669,653

Ouahigouya    Education               One level building for Municipal grammar       156,742
2008          infrastructure          school
                                      Municipal school laboratory construction       85,523

              Urban roads             Construction and asphalting of market's road   543,528

Ouahigouya    Education               Classrooms building and school furniture       118,533
2009          infrastructure          supply
              Social infrastructure   One day-nursery construction in the            76,109

              Civil engineering       Construction of crossing                       179,655
              structure
              Health                  Two community clinics construction             78,802
              infrastructure
              Education               Classrooms                                     201,942
              infrastructure




                                             35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Based on the overall information available for this ICR, the project is assessed to have
achieved an acceptable and adequate level of efficiency. The PAD clarified that ERR and
cost benefit analyses are not applicable for this type of project in which the investments
are mainly for services at the national and local level (training, studies, and goods).
Instead, the PAD pointed to three areas relevant for return to investment: (i) better
performing LGs and public administration to mobilize and manage resources for better
service delivery to the population; (ii) improved fiduciary environment, and (ii)
improvement of transparency and accountability of the fiscal transfer mechanisms.

Based on the achievement of the PDO indicators and the additional information provided
earlier, it can concluded that all three intended objectives were achieved efficiently,
demonstrating relevant returns to investments made under the project:

(i)    Better performing LGs and public administration to mobilize and manage
resources for better service delivery: increased revenues and share of budget spent on
maintenance and investments and improvements in the general performance of the LGs
as evidenced in the municipal contract evaluations,

(ii)    Improved fiduciary environment: (a) introduction of financial management (FM)
standards, regulations and guidelines for all LGs resulting in improvements in
performance, (b) the introduction of relevant software leading to the integration of LG
financial management with those of central government agencies, and improved
accountability due to the fact that the Mayor, the Controller and the internal auditor and
are connected to the same computer network, and real-time knowledge of the level of
processing any financial records, (c) improved classification of expense vouchers, which
applies to all local authorities in the country, and (d) the introduction of revenue ratios
has been systematized and is assisting LGs in determining and projection annual local
revenues.

(iii)    Improvement of transparency and accountability of the fiscal transfer
mechanisms: (a) the project contributed to the operationalization of the FPDCT
equipment, development and dissemination of management tools and staff training, and
institutional support for the setup of the FDPCT, leading to institutionalization of a
dedicated transfer mechanism to local governments and (b) beyond the project, the
FPDCT has been consolidated and has become a mainstream grant mechanism funded
partially by Government, partially by DPs.

In addition to this, a review of the utilization of resources under the project indicates that
the costs of services and goods were reasonable and comparable to costs of similar
activities in other projects. Due diligence was ensured in the procurement processes
under the project resulting in acceptable costs for goods and services provided. None of
the components had significant cost overruns, and the overall utilization of resources was
less than 90% of the credit. The revenues of all six municipalities almost doubled in
period from the project baseline to project completion results.


                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support

(a) Task Team members
                                                                Responsibility/
         Names                        Title             Unit
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Francoise Brunet         Consultant                    AFTSE
Alicia B. Casalis        Consultant                    AFTU1
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab Senior Finance Officer           CTRLA
William Dakpo            Procurement Specialist        AFTPE
Sylvie Debomy            Sr Urban Planner              LCSDU
Ousseynou Diop           Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.   TWIAF
Yvette Laure Djachechi Senior Social Development Spec AFTCS
Christian Vang Eghoff    Consultant                    AFTU2
Catherine D. Farvacque-
                         Lead Urban Specialist         WBIUR
Vitkovic
C. Fallert Kessides      Manager                       WBIUR
Remi Kini                Senior Environmental Economist AES
Paul Kriss               Sector Leader                 LCSSD
Robert Maurer            Lead Urban Sector Specialist  MNSUR
Lance Morrell            Consultant                     IEGPS
Eustache Ouayoro         Country Director              AFCC2
Robert A. Robelus        Consultant                    AFTN2
Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto Sr Transport. Spec.           AFTU2
Mamady Souare            Infrastructure Specialist     AFTTR
Amal Talbi               Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.   AFTN2
Armele Vilceus           Senior Program Assistant      LCC3C
Mamadou Yaro             Sr Financial Management Spec. AFTME
Aissata Z. Zerbo         Procurement Specialist        AFTU2

Supervision/ICR
Elisabeth Marie Bambara Program Assistant              AFMBF
Begnadehi Claude Bationo Operations Officer            AFMBF
William Dakpo            Procurement Specialist        AFTPE
Sylvie Debomy            Sr Urban Planner              LCSDU
Ningayo Charles Donang Senior Procurement Specialist   AFTPW
                                                                ICR Primary
Abdoulaye Kane           E T Consultant                AFTU2
                                                                Author
Kolie Ousmane Maurice Sr Financial Management
                                                       AFTMW
Megnan                   Specialist
Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto Sr Transport. Specialist      AFTU2
Mamata Tiendrebeogo      Procurement Specialist        AFTPW


                                          37
Armele Vilceus             Senior Program Assistant            LCC3C
                           Sr Financial Management
Mamadou Yaro                                                   AFTME
                           Specialist
 Aissata Z. Zerbo          Procurement Specialist              AFTU2
Jonas Ingemann Parby       Urban Specialist                    AFTU2 ICR Team Leader




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                          6.37                      39.81
  FY05                                          9.73                      67.85
  FY06                                         24.24                     121.57
  FY07                                         30.39                     169.88
  FY08                                         14.69                      64.32

                          Total:               85.42                     463.43
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                         19.50                      66.90
  FY10                                         20.50                     115.62
  FY11                                         21.54                     113.34
  FY12                                         17.01                      95.05
  FY13                                         10.85                      46.68

                          Total:               89.40                     437.59




                                            38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1. Introduction

1.     The Decentralized Urban Capacity Building Project [Projet pôles régionaux de
développement PRD] was granted under Financing Agreement No. 4311-BUR for a sum
of SDR 6,700,000 (US$10,000,000 or CFAF 5,000,000,000 equivalent). The Agreement
was signed between Burkina Faso and the International Development Association (IDA)
on June 22, 2007. It came into effect on November 30, 2007 and was closed on January
31, 2013.
    
2. Context

2.      At the time of project identification and preparation in 2007, urban poverty had
virtually doubled from 10.4 percent in 1994 to 19.9 percent in 2003, despite Burkina
Faso’s relatively high economic growth in the early 1980s.This rise in poverty concerned
mainly the secondary urban centers and more particularly the five (5) major regional
capitals (Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso, Kaya, Koudougou, and Ouahigouya), which
accounted for over 25 percent of the national urban population, but suffered from poor
urban service quality.
    
3.      The decentralization process was firmly launched with: (i) the 2004 adoption of
Act No. 55-2004/AN on the General Code of Local Government (CGCT); (ii) the
establishment of a full local and regional government set-up in 2006 with thirteen (13)
regions, forty-nine (49) urban municipalities and three hundred and two (302) rural
municipalities; (iii) the establishment of two mechanisms to raise the levels of financial
transfers to local government: firstly, the granting of direct subsidies to cover local
government operating and capital expenditure (Dotation Générale d ’Equipement (DGE)
and Dotation Générale de Fonctionnement’ (DGF)); and secondly, the creation of the
Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments (FPDCT), established by Article
141 of the General Code of Local Government (CGCT) on funding local government
infrastructure investments.
    
4.      In this context, the Decentralized Urban Capacity Building Project (PRD) was
identified and prepared to support the decentralization process and help find solutions to
the main urban capacity building problems in Burkina Faso, i.e.: (i) poor ability to plan
and program urban development rationally and harmoniously; (ii) lack of basic urban
infrastructures and facilities; (iii) the poor institutional capacities of the municipalities,
the central administrative bodies and other actors to support decentralization and urban
development; (iv) local and central budget problems with raising enough financial
resources to gradually meet the needs to improve urban services; and (v) poor housing
conditions.
    
5.     The Decentralized Urban Capacity Building Project (PRD) was part of the
government’s strategy defined in the World Bank’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) drawn up in 2004 and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the 2006-2009
period. It was based on an innovative approach, which combined various forms of


                                             41
institutional support to the municipalities and urban actors, funded from IDA resources,
with a national mechanism to finance priority municipal investments. The national
mechanism operated by means of municipal contracts between central government and
urban municipalities. These municipal contracts covered investments, priority
maintenance work, and municipal capacity building actions. The recipient entities were
moreover responsible for implementing the activities that concerned them, with the
management team supervising and coordinating with a small team of staff.
      
3. Project objectives

6.     The project’s initial development objective was to, “build the capacities of the
urban municipalities to provide their populations with infrastructures and services, with
special emphasis on the six main municipalities (Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso, Kaya,
Koudougou, Ouagadougou, and Ouahigouya)?.

4. Revised objectives

7.       The development objective was not revised during project implementation.

5. Project components and activities

8.       The project was initially made up of three (3) components and thirty-seven (37)
activities, with each of the three components comprising three subcomponents.

Component 1: Municipal Support Program

Subcomponent 1.1: Strengthening programming and urban management capacity

Activities: (i) municipal audits for the six (6) main urban municipalities for the first
generation of municipal contracts; (ii) purchasing satellite photos of twelve (12) regional
capitals with the exception of Ouagadougou, and updating or developing city plans; (iii)
evaluating and updating the Urban Information System (UIS); (iv) completing and
consolidating the street addressing system in the cities; (v) training for the municipal
departments and elected officials; (vi) consolidating the solid waste management systems
in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; (vii) supporting the identification of community-
based projects included in the Priority Investments Programs (PIP); (viii) providing
logistical support to the six municipalities (furniture, office and IT equipment); (ix)
supporting the development and monitoring of the Priority Maintenance Programs
(PMP); and (x) supporting municipal contract management.

Subcomponent 1.2: Strengthening financial resource mobilization

Activities: (i) support to the implementation of residence tax in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso, and extension of support to the cities of Kaya, Banfora, Koudougou and
Ouahigouya; (ii) improvements to the collection of the informal sector contribution tax




                                            42
[Contribution du Secteur Informel CSI] in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and tax
census in Kaya, Banfora, Koudougou and Ouahigouya.

Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening administrative and financial management of the
municipalities

Activities: (i) computerization of financial management and training; (ii) diagnostic of
economic infrastructure management and support to the improvement of revenues
generated by these infrastructures; and (iii) developing of training modules on budget
preparation and financial analysis.

Component 2: Support to decentralized urban development institutions and
stakeholders

Subcomponent 2.1: Support to financial transfer mechanisms to fund local
government investments

Activities: (i) Preparation of a comprehensive review of the financial framework for
decentralization and monitoring; (ii) periodic technical assistance to the Ministry of
Territorial Administration and Decentralization [Ministère de l'Administration
Territoriale et de la Décentralisation MATD] to set up the Local Finance Observatory
and publish an annual finance ratio guide; and (iii) support to establish the instruments
and procedures for the Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments [Fonds
Permanent de Développement des Collectivités Territoriales FPDCT], including logistics,
training and communication.

Subcomponent 2.2: Urban planning

Activities: (i) modification and simplification of the preparation process and content of
urban master plans (SDAU) and support to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning
(MHU); (ii) support to the implementation of specific activities of the national housing
policy and strategy for safeguarding public land reserves, including the development of a
strategic plan for the Caisses Populaires in the social housing sector and support to the
MHU; (iii) extending the pilot operation on issuance of land ownership documents (PUH
and TF); and (iv) establishing an observatory of local economic development to support
the development of the secondary cities.

Subcomponent 2.3: Institutional strengthening

Activities: (i) training and logistical support to the Directorate General for Local
Government [Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales DGCL 15 ] and permanent
secretariat of the Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization (MATD);

15
     Now the Directorate General for Regional Government [Direction Générale des Collectivités Territoriales DGCT]




                                                         43
(ii) implementation of and training on national M&E systems for all regional capitals,
MATD, Ministry of Finance and Budget [Ministère des Finances et du Budget MFB],
Ministry of Economy and Development [Ministère de l’Economie et du Développement
MEDEV]16 and Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHU), including surveys to
monitor results and evaluations of impact on beneficiaries; (iii) support to the Association
of Municipalities of Burkina Faso (AMBF) to carry out training programs and implement
street addressing; and (iv) private sector training.

Component 3: Information-communication project management, monitoring, and
evaluation

Subcomponent 3.1: Project management

Activities: (i) technical assistance to the MATD departments involved in project
management; (ii) equipping the MATD with information technology and office
equipment, and logistical means to manage the project; (iii) operating expenses for the
project team; (iv) organization of quarterly steering committee meetings; (v) short-term
assistance to ministries and municipalities to carry out their tasks; and (vi) provision for
the participation of key staff in relevant workshops and training.

Subcomponent 3.2: Project monitoring and evaluation

Activities: (i) workshops at project launch, mid-term review and project closure; (ii)
evaluation of municipal contracts and regular implementation progress workshops; (iii)
technical assistance for regular project monitoring and evaluation (support mission); and
(iv) communication, publication and maximizing use of project experiences.

Subcomponent 3.3: Audits

Activity: (i) Annual financial audits of project accounts.

6. Revised components and activities

9.      At the mid-term review in October 2010, the action plan for the second phase of
the project was refocused on the activities underway and a small number of backbone
activities with the potential to have sufficiently significant short-term effects and impacts
to reach the targeted outputs by project closure; (i) improving tax revenues coupled with
street addressing in the cities; (ii) steering and coordinating the preparation of the urban
master plans (SDAU); (iii) publishing 2006-2007 local finance ratio guides; (iv) project
coordination to ensure completion in keeping with the procedures in effect; and (v)
continuing with technical assistance for project implementation.

16
   At the time of project preparation, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) corresponded, in its current
configuration, to the Ministry of Economy and Development (MEDEV) and the Ministry of Finance and Budget
(MFB).




                                                        44
10.     Project implementation programming was based on annual action plans put
forward by recipient institutions. Activities other than those initially planned were
approved mid-term either to consolidate the project’s initial accomplishments or to factor
in changes to the decentralization policy. The following eight (8) additional activities
were approved: (i) assistance to the Directorate General for the Treasury and Public
Accounting/Directorate for Studies and Financial Legislation (DGTCP/DELF) and local
government to take on board and own Directive No. 01/2011/CM/UEMOA of June 24,
2011 on the financial system for local government in WAEMU; (ii) support to the
Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization (MATD) to organize the
administrative census in the municipalities of Bobo-Dioulasso and Ouagadougou; (iii)
support to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHU) to set up an urban
development fund; (iv) build the MHU’s planning capacities for sector policy ownership;
(v) create awareness on the regulations for Act No. 055 on the General Code of Local
Government (CGCT) and Act No. 027 on the legal regulations applicable to local
government jobs and staff; (vi) build the MATD’s planning capacities for sector policy
ownership; (vii) build MATDS and municipality capacities in local government human
resources management; and (viii) support to the Directorate General for Regional
Planning and Decentralization Assistance (DGAT-AD) to finalize the national regional
specialization policy and the national policy to promote regional investments.

11.     The following activities included in the 2011 action plan and approved by the
Steering Committee (SC) had to be cancelled: (i) municipal audit capacity building:
workshop to endorse and adopt standard models for agreements/protocols between
central government and local government; and (ii) information and communication on
project outputs (publication and dissemination of mid-term results, and workshop to
disseminate project outputs).

12.     An amendment to the Financing Agreement signed on November 28, 2012
revised the credit allocation among the different expenditure categories. This amendment
was driven by: (i) the need to post in the official budget the budget overrun generated by
the real costs of the contract to develop the urban master plans (SDAU) for the 12
regional capitals, with the exception of Ouagadougou; and (ii) the need to correct a major
omission from the Financing Agreement, which had prevented the authorization of
certain project coordination team operating costs.

7. Evaluation of the project’s objectives

13.     The development objective was realistic: given the prevailing environment
when the project was identified and prepared, the development objective corresponded to
problems that faced Burkina Faso’s decentralized urban development and that called for
urgent solutions.

14.    However, the development objective was too general and did not adequately map
out the priority activities to facilitate programming. The following specific targets were
hence adopted mid-term to resolve this shortcoming and smooth the way to achieve the



                                           45
development objective: (i) help the municipalities take up the new infrastructure
programming and implementation mechanisms by building their programming and urban
and municipal management capacities; (ii) support central government’s financial
transfer and assistance mechanisms for local government to finance local investments;
and (iii) build the capacities of the urban and municipal management support structures
and institutions and other actors to develop, implement and evaluate urban development
strategies and programs.
 
15.    The activities identified matched the sector’s urgent needs and their
accomplishment was likely to make a strong contribution to the achievement of the
development objective.

    8. Achievement of project objectives and outputs

The project outputs were satisfactory.

16.     The development objective was achieved to a great extent. At project closure date,
the targets set for the two development objective indicators (Indicator 1: share of
municipal budget spent on infrastructure investments and maintenance; and Indicator 2:
increase in current municipal revenues) had been reached and even improved upon. This
is highly satisfactory.

17.    As regards the specific targets, definite and far-reaching advances were observed
with solving Burkina Faso’s main decentralized urban development problems, as they
were identified at the project preparation stage. The Decentralized Urban Capacity
Building Project (PRD) hence:

       Largely strengthened urban development planning and programming capacities and
        developed suitable tools such as the urban master plans (SDAU) and urban audits,
        and largely shared them with ministry and urban municipality actors;

       Created the conditions required for better quality urban management at the level of
        the municipalities and support institutions (ministries and Association of
        Municipalities of Burking Faso), driven mainly by: (i) considerable staff capacity
        building; (ii) provision of management tools and equipment (software, procedures
        manuals, technical guides, budgetary preparation framework, etc.); and (iii)
        development and introduction of local tax census and collection tools;

       Made highly positive progress with financing decentralization. Strategic thinking
        was conducted on developing a medium-term financing framework for
        decentralization and proposal of a sustainable financing mechanism for the
        Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments (FPDCT). The FPDCT is up
        and running and even financed the priority investments for the six (6) cities targeted
        by the project under municipal contracts whose implementation is deemed
        satisfactory. The establishment of the municipal contract as a new contractual




                                               46
    arrangement came from a bottom-up approach to the identification of priority
    investments and mutual commitments by municipalities and the government;

   Conducted a great deal of strategic thinking in the social housing sector and started
    to form partnerships to find suitable solutions for the national situation.

18.    At closure date, the targets set had been achieved for five (5) of the eight (8)
output indicators chosen for the project’s two operational components, representing an
achievement rate of 62.50 percent.

19.     Five (5) of the thirty-seven (37) activities initially programmed were not carried
out. These were: (i) strengthening municipal contract management; (ii) supporting the
development and implementation of the Priority Maintenance Programs (PMP); (iii)
extending the pilot operation on issuing land ownership documents (PUH and TF); (iv)
assistance to establish an observatory of local economic development at the Ministry of
Economy and Development (MEDEV) to support the development of the secondary
cities; (v) technical assistance for regular project monitoring and evaluation (support
mission).

20.    Three (3) of the eight (8) additional activities were completed, three (3) were
conducted in part and two (2) were cancelled due to the project activity closure
requirements.

21.     Thirty-two (32) initial activities and six (6) additional activities were conducted,
for an implementation rate of approximately 84 percent (38 activities conducted out of
the 45 programmed).

22.      The results obtained cover: (i) considerable building of municipal and support
institution staff’s technical capacities; (ii) the availability of efficient urban development
planning and programming tools; (iii) modern municipality management and urban
development resources; (iv) better local tax collection and yield conditions; (v) a defined
decentralization financing framework and operational financial transfer mechanisms; (vi)
a framework conducive to the development of social housing.

9. Main factors influencing project implementation

23.     Factors beyond the control of the Government and the implementing
agencies: the sociopolitical situation at the beginning of 2011 prevented the launch of
certain activities on schedule (preparation of the urban master plans (SDAU), support for
the improvement of local tax collection, and street addressing).

24.     Factors beyond the control of the coordination bodies (project management
team): the inefficiency of the recipient entities in charge of the contract management
tasks for the activities concerning them; the high turnover of managers supervising the
activities and focal points in the implementing entities; the cumbersome national




                                             47
procurement system and inadequate procurement capacities among staff in the technical
implementing entities.

25.     Factors generally within the Government’s control: inefficient operational
arrangements (steering committee, technical committee, and focal points) prevented the
central ministry departments from swiftly taking the project on board; long procurement
lead-times due, among others, to a cumbersome national procurement system and duality
in the implementation of World Bank procedures and national regulations.

26.     Factors generally within the implementing agency’s control: tardy circulation
of the basic project set-up documents and procedures; and a lack of direct liaison with the
Directorate General for Public Procurement (DGMP) to anticipate and discuss
procurement problems.

27.    Factors generally within the implementing entities’ control: inadequate
incorporation of project activities into the regular work schedule for the ministries
concerned; and procurement and contract performance management shortcomings.

28.     Factors generally within the IDA’s control: the negative impacts on
disbursement speed of the transition launched in September 2011 from manual to
electronic disbursement application processing; and the suspension of disbursements
from July to November 2012, which gave rise to the amendment of the Financing
Agreement in November 2012 following a freeze on activities for four (4) months.

10. World Bank performance

World Bank project identification and preparation performance was satisfactory,
and its performance in implementation supervision and monitoring was moderately
satisfactory.

29.     In general, the World Bank strongly supported the Decentralized Urban Capacity
Building Project (PRD) identification and preparation actions, in particular by
establishing a Project Preparation Fund for a sum of CFAF three hundred (300) million,
used to conduct a detailed feasibility study. The Bank regularly conducted supervision
missions, was attentive to problems that arose during the project’s implementation, and
cooperated in a constructive manner to solve them.

30.     Nevertheless, declarations of no-objection for draft annual action plans, terms of
reference, requests for proposals (RFP) and bidding documents, as well as evaluations of
proposals and bids, were slow in certain areas. The fact that four (4) different people held
the position of project manager from project preparation to closure was hardly conducive
to continuity in monitoring activities and making decisions.




                                            48
11. Government performance

Government project identification and preparation performance was satisfactory,
and project implementation phase performance was moderately satisfactory.

31.     The government and all the public institutions in the decentralization and urban
development sector worked closely on feasibility study follow-up and validating its
recommendations. The Government’s political commitment to making the Permanent
Development Fund for Local Governments [Fonds Permanent de Développement des
Collectivités Territoriales FPDCT] operational paved the way for the admittedly
complex, but innovative project design, with its guarantee of financing for investments.
The Government earmarked resources in the 2008 to 2010 budget acts, providing the PIP
financing for the municipal contracts for the six (6) urban municipalities targeted by the
project for a sum of approximately CFAF eighteen (18) billion. This was highly positive.

32.     However, the conditions to bring the Financing Agreement into effect took longer
than scheduled (over 5 months instead of 3 months), and there were also delays with
putting in place all the project coordination team staff. The efficiency of the supervisory
bodies suffered from frequent staff changes as administrative entities and positions were
reorganized.

12. Project coordination body performance

33.     This was satisfactory. Despite the complexity of the project’s operational set-up
and the large number of implementing entities, the Project Management Team (PMT) put
sufficient effort into its main brief of coordinating the implementation of activities. The
PMT convened regular steering committee and technical committee meetings, and
submitted the required financial monitoring reports (FMRs) to the World Bank. The
project’s accounts audit reports were sent to the World Bank on time, with the exception
of the report on the 2010 financial year, which was sent in October 2011. Nevertheless,
by the time activities were launched, there had not been enough of a communication and
information campaign on the project and its set-up.

13. Performance of the ministries concerned by the project

34.    Performance was moderately satisfactory. Project ownership by the ministries
concerned and especially the implementation entities was slow to get moving. This held
up the actual launch of operational activities. Procurement lead-times were also long and
study oversight was not very efficient. Many studies dragged on.

14. Performance of the             Permanent      Development       Fund      for   Local
    Governments(FPDCT)

35.      This was satisfactory for the tasks of both project manager and financing
institution. The FPDCT satisfactorily managed large sums for local government via the




                                            49
treasury. The fund transfer mechanism was operational, but hold-ups with the
disbursement system caused implementation delays with certain projects.

15. Performance of the project’s recipient urban municipalities

36.    Performance here was satisfactory. The municipalities adhered to the
contractual mechanism represented by the municipal contract. They were sufficiently
involved in the implementation of the activities managed by the ministries and the
Association of Municipalities of Burkina Faso (AMBF) in terms of building capacities
and developing tools for planning/programming and urban management. The
municipalities obtained satisfactory results in the management of the implementation of
the municipal contracts’ Priority Investments Programs (PIP). The poor results of the
implementation of the Priority Maintenance Programs (PMP) were partly down to the
municipalities, although they did not receive the program preparation assistance initially
provided for.

16. Performance of the Association of Municipalities of Burkina Faso (AMBF)

37.     This was satisfactory for the tasks of both project managers for the activities that
directly concerned it and delegated project manager for the street addressing. The
AMBF’s procurement capacities needed building, but all the activities assigned to it were
implemented within a reasonable amount of time and have been totally completed since
2011.

17. Performance of the consultants, consulting firms and suppliers

38.    This was moderately satisfactory in general. Many studies were not completed
by the contractual deadlines and many reports were considered to be of poor quality.
There were also many late deliveries on supply contracts and problems with non-
compliance of delivered products. Some contracts were even terminated.

18. The most noteworthy positive lessons

39.    A positive innovation was to make the ministries and other recipient bodies
responsible as project managers of the activities that concerned them, with the support of
a small coordination team in charge of full-time monitoring of implementation and
supervision.

40.     Project ownership was helped enormously by a more technical workshop than the
project launch workshop, focused on the presentation and detailed review of the basic
project documents and procedures, and restricted to the implementing entities only.

41.     The effects of the low level of ownership of the actions by the implementing
entities were mitigated by the institutionalization of regular (monthly) activity monitoring
meetings.




                                            50
42.      As regards procurement and contract management, the Decentralized Urban
Capacity Building Project [Projet pôles régionaux de développement PRD] was one of
the first World Bank-financed projects to start using the new procurement system adopted
by the Government in April 2008, wherein all actors were expressing new training needs.
The concrete commitment of the project management team and the implementing entities
was decisive in ensuring the implementation of the project activities.

19. The most noteworthy negative lessons

43.    The absence of regular and adequate national counterpart funding to ensure the
remuneration provided for by the national regulations, but not eligible for IDA credit
financing, contributed a great deal to the project implementation problems.

44.     The poor incorporation of the project activities into the work programs of the
ministries and recipient institutions.

45.     Project monitoring and evaluation was inadequately prepared at the launch of
activities. At the end of the project, certain indicators’ definitions were amended to
improve the reliability and quality of the data collected.

20. Sustaining project outputs

46.    A certain number of actions have already been taken to sustain the PRD’s many
urban management and programming outputs: (i) the inclusion in the 2013 budget of the
resources required to extend the integrated local government accounts system (CICT) to
all municipalities; and (ii) budgeting for the full cost of the street addressing units in the
municipal budgets. These actions will obviously need to be consolidated.

47.    Moreover, the relatively satisfactory outputs of municipal investment financing by
the Permanent Development Fund for Local Governments (FPDCT) helped gradually
bring on board other development partners to consolidate this mechanism.

48.     The few abovementioned actions obviously need to be consolidated and scaled
up. To this end, it will be useful to bear in mind the following points: (i) the importance
of developing a municipal infrastructure maintenance culture to go hand in hand with
investment financing; (ii) the final approval and implementation of the urban master
plans (SDAU) developed by the project; and (iii) the continuation of the important local
tax collection improvement actions launched by the project.

21. Suggestions to consolidate and sustain project outputs

49.    With a view to sustaining and consolidating project outputs, it is suggested that a
think tank be launched on preparing and implementing a new decentralized urban
capacity building support operation, taking into account the actions and operations
already underway and prioritizing all the regional capitals.




                                             51
50.     This future operation will be based on an innovative mechanism to support central
government and municipal commitments to institution building (including raising tax
revenues, financial transfers, and financial management), making priority investments
and infrastructure maintenance.




                                           52
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                    53
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


DUCBP - Project Appraisal Document
DUCBP – Financing Agreement
DUCBP - Implementation Status and Results Reports
Aide Memoires
DUCBP - Restructuring Paper
DUCBP - Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Audit Technique des Exercises 2008-2011
Review Report of the Implementation of Municipal Contracts 2008-2011
M&E Consolidation Reports - DUCBP
DCUBP – Implementation Completion Report (Government of Burkina Faso)




                                      54
                                                                             4°W                                                                  2°W                                                                             0°                                                            2°E   This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OUDALAN                                                                       the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                   MALI                                                                                                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      acceptance of such
                                                 BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                SOUM

                                                                                                                                   LOROUM                                                                                                                                                 NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dori
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14°N
                                                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                       Mopti                                                                                                                                   SÉNO                                         Niamey
                                                                                                                   YATENGA                                                                                                                                                               ig




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           er

                                                                                                                                        Ouahigouya          BAM                 SANMATENGA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NAMENTENGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     YAGHA                                                       To
                                                    To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dosso
                                                    San                                                    SOUROU
                                                                                                                                   ZONDOMA                                                                                     GNAGNA
                                                                                   KOSSI                                                                                       Kaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sirba
                           To
                           Ségou
                                                                                                                                     PASSORÉ           KOURE-                                                                                        KOMONDJARI
                                                                                                                                                       WÉOGO                                                                                                          bi
                                                                                                                                                                       OUBRITENGA
                                                                                                          NAYALA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              or
                                                                                                                                                                                      Ziniaré




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                  Dédougou                                    OUAGADOUGOU
                                                                                                                                                                                           GANZOURGOU
                                                                  BANWA                    MOUHOUN                                           Koudougou
                                                                                                                                                               KADIOGO




                                                                                                                                                                                            Vol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fada




                                                                                                                                                                                                ta
                                                                                                                                     BOULKIEMDÉ                                                                                                 N'Gourma




                                                                                                                                                                                                Bla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KOURITENGA
                                                                                                                   SANGUIÉ                                                                                                                                                       TAPOA                                         12°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                    n
                     12°N                                                                                                                                     Vo




                                                                                                                                                                                                     ch
                                                                                                                                                                 lta    BAZÉGA                                                              GOURMA




                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                          e




                                                                                                                                                                       Ro
                                                                        ir




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tenkodogo
                                                                     No




                                                                                                                                                                         ug
                                                                                                                                                       ZIRO                   e Z
                                                                                                            BALÉ                                                                  O             Manga
                                                                     ta




                                                                                                                                                                                      UN                       BOULGOU          KOULPÉLOGO
                                                                 Vol




                                        KÉNÉDOUGOU                                                                                                                                         DW                                                         KOMPIENGA
                                                                HOUET                                                                                                                           ÉO
                                                                                            TUI                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                       NAOURI                            O
             To Bougouni




                                                                   Bobo-
                                                                                                                                   SISSILI                                                                                                                                           BENIN
                                                                                                            IOBA                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                   Dioulasso                                                                                                                                                                To                         To                              Parakou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°                                   Djougou                  2°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sokidé
                                                                                      BOUGOURIBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B UR KI N A FAS O
                                                      Banfora
                                   LÉRABA
                                                              KOMOÉ
                                                                                               PONI
                                                                                                Gaoua                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D ECENTRALIZ ED URBAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tamale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAPACITY BUILD ING P ROJECT
                                                      Komoé




                                                                                                                     Volta Noire




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN PROJECT CITIES
                     10°N
                                                                                                          NOUMBIEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTHER REGIONAL CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                              GHANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                      Bole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                              0   20     40      60     80      100 Kilometers                                                                             RIVERS
                                                  CÔTE D'IVOIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 35395
MARCH 2007




                                                                                                                                              0        20         40           60            80 Miles                                                                      RAILROADS
                                          To
                                        Bouaké                                                       To
                                                                                               Koutouba                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                             4°W                                                                  2°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
