Report No. PID7449
Project Name                     Chad-Health Sector Support Project (HSSP)(@)
[Projet d'Appui au Secteur de la sante (PASS)]
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       CDPE55122
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Chad
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Health
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 28, 2000 (update)
Projected Appraisal Date         December 4, 1999
Projected Board Date             April 4, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Health Sector Support Project was designed using the lessons learned
from the ongoing, but soon to close Health and Safe Motherhood Project
(1995-2001) and Population and Aids Coordination Project (1995-2001),
which effectively addressed the most salient health issues as determined
by the Government prior to the National Health Policy of 1998. Following
the analysis of the health system carried out as part of the preparation
for the Geneva IV Round Table (October 1998), the Ministry of Public
Health and its development partners held in June 1998 a consensus meeting
on the new directions proposed for the Health system which resulted in the
updating of the "National Health Policy", which identified new priorities
and strategies. These priorities and strategies were endorsed by the
MOPH's partners at the Health Sectoral Meeting held in March 1999 in
N'Djamena. The MOPH determined to address the weaknesses as urgent
priorities because they will in effect block progress in the sector and
will constitute an ongoing obstacle for development efforts. As for the
areas where improvement is needed, in recent years the MOPH has taken
steps for action and reform in some areas. However, there is a need for
sustained action to develop the health sector and put these improvements
on a sustainable footing. To obtain these objectives, the MOPH has asked
the assistance of its partners. These weaknesses and areas in need of
improvement are presented briefly below preceding the Government's
strategy.Areas of weaknessLack of qualified human resources: The health
system suffers from a severe shortage of qualified human resources. Many
of the country's health facilities are simply non-operational, even at the
most basic level of service, for lack of qualified staff. It is general
knowledge that this situation can be explained only partially by the lack
of financial resources. It is also due to the fact that no personnel were
trained during the war (1981-87) and that the training school for
paramedicals (nurses, midwifes, nurses aids, lab specialists, etc.) was
closed from 1994-1997. Some steps have been taken to remedy the situation
by the Ministry, with the support of its partners, but more needs to be
done. In the face of this catastrophic situation, the MOPH and its
development partners must approach the problem immediately as an
emergency, as well as a long-term development issue.Basic health services
are not sufficiently reducing maternal and child mortality: Both maternal



and child mortality rates remain at an unacceptable level. Although this
situation may be due in large part to factors outside of the health
sector (cultural factors encouraging numerous and frequent pregnancies
which result in a high morbidity, poor quality of water, detrimental
nutritional practices, and low levels of education among mothers), the
health system is also part of the problem. Specific interventions must be
designed to improve access to and the performance of health system both at
the health center level (where the MPA is delivered) and at the district
hospital level (where the CPA is provided), so that they will have a
positive impact on the health status of the "mother-child" target group to
reverse this situation. Partnership with the private sector is still in
its infancy: While the principle of partnership is accepted both within
the MOPH and among the great majority of stakeholders in the health
sector, achievements to date are very few. The MOPH has recognized that
it cannot provide adequate health services on its own. Yet it is
reluctant to commit itself to privatization, where the outcome is highly
uncertain. Its strategy is to develop active partnerships, i.e.
partnerships that involve contractual arrangements whereby stakeholders,
including the communities, work actively together as part of a commitment
to public service.Mechanisms to control epidemics and endemic diseases are
still inadequate: Repeated outbreaks of meningitis and cholera are still
frequent occurences in the country. They appear each year and cause many
deaths among the poor and destitute. While the MOPH has introduced an
emergency response system, it needs to strengthen its early warning system
and undertake effective prevention measures.Improvements neededThe central
administration: In the past, development partners tended to overlook the
central level in favor of direct interventions in the field. Over the past
several years, however, they have provided support to certain directorates
or divisions. Other divisions are still inadequately equipped to perform
their mandates.   The central level today does not have the capacity to
coordinate the activities of its various directorates and divisions, which
still tend to work in isolation from each other. There is a need for the
General Directorate to develop a "management team" approach in order to
coordinate financial and human resources -- both domestic and foreign --
to pilot reforms, hold annual activity reviews, and establish ad hoc
working groups with clear operational goals.Fees for services:     Fees for
services and cost-recovery for pharmaceuticals are accepted in principle,
but methods for implementing them are haphazard. Moreover they are being
collected almost exclusively in the health centers. The commitment of
hospitals to this approach is a very recent one and poses a number of
problems, since most of the patient population cannot afford to pay the
full cost of services. Progress in this area will require both greater
harmonization of practices and a better way of dealing with inability to
pay and risk-sharing. Community involvement is very important in this
area.Better coordination among development partners: While there has been
a notable improvement in recent years in terms of coordination,
particularly through the use of sectoral round tables, the MOPH needs to
develop more periodic and systematic mechanisms (annual coordination
reviews) that will involve all of the various private sector stakeholders
to a greater degree. Here again, the General Directorate and its
Coordination and Studies Office need to be strengthened so that they can
perform these tasks and, in time, be able to manage a full sectoral
program, mobilize and manage resources, and carry out monitoring and
evaluation activities.Government strategiesThe Ministry of Public Health
has updated its National Health Policy. This policy takes a sectoral
- 2-



approach, consistent with the national priority of combating poverty.
Chad's health policy is based on the following major principles:Health is
an integral part of the well-being of the population: The Public Health
Ministry must guarantee access for all to quality health care. The
well-being of the population also depends on preventive health practices
within families (free choice by couples in spacing births, nutrition and
food security, among others) and on improvements in the general standard
of living (clean water, sanitation, and prevention of major vector-borne
diseases and epidemics).Health is a sine qua non for development: In all
official documents, Chad refers to the role that health and education
should play as factors in the country's economic development.Health is a
means of ensuring the balanced and harmonious development of the country:
An equitable distribution of health services will help balance rural and
urban areas and reduce regional disparities.Health is part of a global
approach to fighting poverty. On the basis of coordination of its actions
with the other sectors involved -- education, labor-intensive activities,
support for cooperatives, agriculture -- the health sector helps reduce
the extreme poverty of the particularly vulnerable groups in Chadian
society.These principles are the underpinning of primary health care and
are part and parcel of the general policy of "Health for All." It is a
matter of creating the conditions in which all citizens can achieve and
maintain the best possible state of health throughout their lives.    This
right to health" has led to the following two policy objectives:To place
health at the heart of development, by making sure that health is taken
into account in sustainable development planning.To set up sustainable
health care systems to cover the needs of the population and guarantee
equal access to essential health services.
2. Objectives
The general objective of the project is to support the extension of basic
quality health services in Chad through the implementation of a National
Health Policy as defined by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).The
specific objectives of the project are: (i) to overcome, at least
partially, the shortage of human resources that now hampers the delivery
of health services and to strengthen the professional quality of health
and management personnel; (ii) to improve the accessibility and quality of
basic health services, especially in the areas of child and reproductive
health in selected underserved areas; (iii) to improve the financing and
management of the health system in the context of the national
decentralization framework and to plan for use of expected increases in
resources available to the sector; and (iv) to strengthen the MOPH for the
implementation of national strategies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has played a leading role in the policy dialogue with the
Government on the health sector. Through the assistance provided with
support from the on-going project and from the preparation budget of the
present project, the Bank has been instrumental, in collaboration with
WHO, in helping MOPH to develop a comprehensive National Health Policy, in
putting into effect key reforms, in particular in the pharmaceutical
sector, in initiating reforms in other areas (financing and management of
health services, and in strengthening capacities. In addition, the Bank
has played a major role in donor coordination by assuring that regular
meetings are held between MOPH and its partners. The Bank's support for
the next five years will build on these past achievements, and it will
-3 -



assist in the implementation of the national health policy. In
particular, the Bank will provide support throughout the project to ensure
that MOPH holds an annual sector-wide review meeting with donors.The
Bank's health team will coordinate its efforts with other Bank-supported
projects, in particular with the Management of the Petroleum Economy
project which was approved on January 27, 2000, and which will address the
issue of decentralization and of financial management. In addition, it
will coordinate with the Urban Development Project (municipal capacity
building), the Education V Project, the Transport Project, and the
Petroleum Sector Mangement Capacity Building Project being prepared in the
context of the Pipeline project.
4. Description
The project will have four components: Supporting human resources
development
(i) increase the number of qualified health personnel decentralized
initial training for paramedical personnel
(ii) improve quality of existing health care personnel through refresher
courses
(iii) strengthen human resources management skills of health
personnelStrengthening district health services in under-served areas
(i) consolidate health services in Tandjile (area targeted by previous
IDA-financed project)
(ii) rehabilitate/build and equip health infrastructure and
operationalize health services in severely under-serviced districts (Lac,
Kanem, and Moyen Chari)
(iii) reinforce, in the context of the MPA and CPA, the activities of
the national programs against malaria, tuberculosis, AIDS/STD/HIV and
river blindness in project-targeted areas.Strengthening health financing
management and support to the decentralization/deconcentration process
(i) improve the performance of cost recovery systems
(ii) introduce financial planning and management policies and procedures
for decentralization and hospital autonomy consistent with the national
decentralization framework
(iii) promote stronger partnership with the private sector through
experimentation with the contractual approach (responsibility to carry out
service delivery would be contracted to local private operators)
(iv) define a plan for an efficient use of oil revenues consistent with
the objective of the National Health PolicyInstitutional capacity building
of MOPH for specific areas
(i) consolidate mechanisms put in place in previous IDA-financed project
to implement the National Pharmaceutical policy
(ii) assist in implementing the national health communications strategy
develop with the financing of previous IDA-financed project
(iii) continue to lend support for the National AIDS/STD/HIV Control
Program
(iv) Develop and put in place a national maintenance strategy
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost
6. Implementation
Implementation period:   5 years, from July 2000 to July 2005.The project
-4 -



will operate at two levels: nationally, and in selected prefectures of
the country. Action at the central level will lead to application and
experimentation at the district level, while actions at the district level
will feed back into planning at the central level.Executing agencies: The
Ministry of Health through its directorates and divisions will execute the
project. The implementation arrangements used for the ongoing HSMP will
be replicated for the most part, i.e. activities related to the
operationalization of the health districts and other specialized
activities will be implemented by UN agencies or by private-sector
Technical Support Agencies, recruited on a quality, cost-based selection
to provide technical assistance under the Credit. Local and international
NGOs based in Chad, and community groups will be utilized when possible to
assist the project activities.Project management and coordination: The
project activities will be managed by the Steering Committee of the MOPH
and coordinated by a Project Coordination Team (PCT).     The MOPH Steering
Committee, composed of the Director General of Health, the deputy Director
General, and all MOPH Directors will be responsible for planning, managing
and monitoring project activities and for coordinating them with
activities financed by other donors active in the sector. The Steering
Committee will hold regular meetings. The Steering Committee will also
have the authority to make recommendations for improving project
implementation, if necessary. Lastly, it will be responsible for
organizing consultations with the different partners, in particular
through quarterly and annual activity reviews. The PCT will be headed by
a coordinator who will be under the direct authority of the Director
General. The team will not only include the same positions as the
existing CPT (coordinator, administrator, architect, accountant,
procurement specialist), but also a public health physician qualified in
training of health personnel and an assistant accountant. In the new
project, the Agence Fran6aise de Developpement health project
representative and his/her administrative support will take up residence
in the PCT, thereby hopefully facilitating the coordination of activities
with this donor who is intervening in two of the project-targeted
prefectures (Lac and Kanem). The role of the PCT will be principally one
of coordination. However, it will also play an administrative and
supervisory role. In its administrative role, it will be responsible for
preparing procurement documents (as this capability does not exist in the
MOPH), manage project funds, prepare disbursement requests for LOAAF,
ensure the liaison with the Project Task Team and the World Bank in
general, and act as the Secretariat to the Steering committee of the
Project. In its supervisory role, it will, (i) on behalf of the MOPH,
supervise the firm which will be hired to do the architectural studies and
supervise the civil works; and (ii) in collaboration with the Direction of
Health Activities (DACS), supervise the Technical Support Agencies which
will provide technical support to the operationalization of health
districts. All the other activities of the project will be the entire
responsibility of MOPH directorates and Divisions which will work in close
collaboration with the Prefectoral Health Officer, the district teams, and
the Technical Support Agencies. Procedures for supporting the Prefectural
Health Offices: To facilitate implementation of HSSP activities in the
project-targeted prefectures, Technical Support Agencies will be recruited
by the project to implement the activities in the Prefectoral Health
Offices and districts in the "Strengthening district health services in
under-served areas" component. These agencies will be required to support
the "deconcentrated" prefectural health offices in the project-targeted
- 5 -



areas. The technical support agencies will focus on transferring
knowledge and skills to the professional staff of the deconcentrated
prefectural health offices in the project areas, in order to ensure
sustainability and facilitate replicability of the results obtained. In
line with this procedure, the Agencies will intervene in the following
areas: (i) organization of health services; (ii) supervision of health
facilities; (iii) continuing training of health personnel of the PHO and
district teams; (iv) operational planning for the prefectures and their
districts; (v) implementation and monitoring of contractual arrangements;
(vi) implementation of hospital autonomy; (vii) design, set-up, and
monitoring of mobile teams; (viii) community participation, in particular
cost recovery at hospital and district levels; (ix) promotion of the risk
sharing concept; (x) integration of national programs to the PMA (in
particular EPI); and (xi) organization and management of the Prefoctoral
Purchasing Pharmacies.Procedures for implementing services in the health
facilities: The HSSP project will favor partnership as the means of
implementing the MPA and CPA. This partnership could take the form of
service contracts awarded under at least two arrangements: association
with the public service of health facilities already operated by NGOs, or
the concession to NGOs of public health facilities. In both cases,
responsibility for health service delivery, in line with the public
service principles contained in the National Health Policy, will
automatically lie with the contractors. The Government's commitment to
such contracts will be set down in clauses that relate to the obligations
of the MOPH, particularly in the area of financing and staff assignment.
In the project-targeted areas, the HSSP project will provide the financial
resources corresponding to the Government's share in the operating budgets
of the health facilities. To that end, the project will use contractual
tools to be developed by the MOPH in agreement with its partners,
depending on the process selected, subject to their validation by the
World Bank. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements have been
satisfactory under the existing project and will continue under the
proposed project.    However, based on the financial assessment carried out
by the Bank's financial management specialist, the PCT will be
strengthened with an assistant accountant to assist with routine
activities, freeing the accountant to oversee all administrative and
financial transactions with the project coordinator. Monitoring and
Evaluation: The overall project will be monitored on an annual basis,
while the prefectural activities will be monitored on a bi-annual basis
against outcome indicators defined for the development objective and each
of the components. A DHS was carried out in 1997 providing demographic
and child and reproductive health baseline data. In addition, a
beneficiary assessment was carried out in August 1998. The data from this
assessment, used to design the services strengthening component of the
project, will be used as a comparator to assess beneficiary satisfaction
when the next beneficiary assessment is conducted before the mid-term
review. IDA supervision missions will be synchronized with the bi-annual
review of the project to be organized by the Steering Committee. Project
activities may be adjusted at those times to accomodate changes in the
sector and/or the pace of implementation and to coordinate with the MOPH
and ministries involved in the decentralization component, and the other
partners (donors/co-financiers and NGOs). The mid-term review will take
place during the third year of project implementation (early 2003).
Beneficiary assessment will take place at the end of 2002 and in early
- 6 -



2005. Finally, since the 1997 DHS provided baseline data, the next DHS,
planned for 2003, will be used to evaluate project's outcome and impact.
7. Sustainability
A priori, in Chad, the issue of sustainability is less important to-day
than in other countries because it is expected that oil revenues will, in
four or five years, increase the resource of the sector, which changes the
paradigm. However, more resources does not mean a better functioning
system. Consequently, in order to maximize the benefits of these expected
added revenues, steps have to be taken to ready the health system: eg.,
managemnt capacities have to be increased both at the central and the
peripheral levels and financial management has to improve. The project
will finance several activities aiming at achieving these goals. The
strong support of the project to capacity building will also foster
sustainability. With effective decentralization, prefectoral and district
teams will be allocated resources to implement their health plans. The
project will be putting in place mangement systems and build capacities
which will make its possible for these teams to to be effectively manage
their resources. In addition, in the context of decentralization, there
are important issues to be examined in terms of the oversight that the
MOPH will exercise over these facilities. At the primary health care
level, the project will support the establishment of health and management
committees to involve the community in the management of health
facilities. Contractualiztion is another tool designed to assist MOPH in
managing health sevices more efficiently and in providing higher quality
services at an affordable cost. The project will assist the MOPH to
prepare its partners for these changes by financing training and study
tours to other African countries with experience in this area and by
providing asssitance for developing the implementaiton steps for these
changes.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Operationally, the lessons learned from previous interventions which have
been integrated in the design and preparation of this project may be
summarized as follows:The political reforms needed to implement the
project must be discussed early in the project preparation process and in
all cases before negotiations. Ownership: Senior decision-making levels
of the MOPH, and its principal officials nationally and regionally, must
feel a real sense of "ownership" of the project. Importance of donor
coordination: The sectoral approach taken by the MOPH calls for close
cooperation among development partners. Throughout the preparation of
this project, joint and complementary actions have been discussed with all
partners to ensure that there be no duplication and that all priorities of
the sector are covered. Quality of preparation: According to criteria
agreed to during the identification mission, the MOPH selected the
geographic areas for project activities early in the preparation process,
thereby facilitating the costing of required construction/rehabilitation
and avoiding surprises. The project will continue to work in Tandjile
while extending its coverage to Loc, Kanem, Moyen-Chari, and (if resources
allow) to some rural districts of Chari-Bagirmi.In order to speed up the
project's launching, it is important that bidding documents for the first
year procurement and the Manual of Procedures and the Implementation
Manual be finalized before effectiveness.Because the management capacities
of the MOPH are still weak and its human resources are limited, it is
important that the experience accumulated through the coordination units
-7 -



of the two ongoing projects should be put to good use.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to have any negative
environmental impact. The construction and rehabilitation of health
centers and hospitals will be conducted with due regard for standards of
hygiene and sanitation. The project will pay particular attention to the
destruction of medical and hospital wastes, both for environmental and
public health reasons (HIV contamination). Small incinerators, meeting
international standards, and containers for the disposal of one-use
syringes will be provided to health centers. These containers will be
disposed of in the district hospitals. In addition, the project will
provide a source of water in all functional health facilities in
project-targeted areas.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michele L. Lioy
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4810
Fax: 202-473-8216
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8 -



