                           Document of
                         The World Bank




                                              Report No: ICR0000451




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-33420)

                              ON A

                             CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.0 MILLION (US$41.51 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                             TO THE

                       REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                             FOR A

                 HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT




                          June 28, 2007




Human Development III
Central Africa I
Africa Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 2007)

                    Currency Unit = Francs CFA
                         CFAF513.45 = US$1
                         US$0.02 = CFAF 1

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 ­ December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS       Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF       Local currency
CPPA       Central Pharmaceutical Purchasing Agency
DED        German Development Service
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GTZ        German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
ISR        Implementation Status Reports
HSSP       Health Sector Support Project
MPA        Minimum Package of Activities
MDG        Millennium Development Goals
MOH        Ministry of Health
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDO        Project Development Objective
SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
STD        Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UN         United Nations
UNICEF     United Nations Information Communication Education Fund
US         United States


                 Vice President    :   Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
        Acting Country Manager     :   Marie Françoise Marie-Nelly
                Sector Manager     :   Laura Frigenti
             Task Team Leader      :   Maryanne Sharp

                                              CHAD
                    HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

                                         CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design....................................... 1
 2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................... 3
 3.     Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................. 10
 4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................. 13
 5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................. 14
 6.     Lessons Learned................................................................................................ 16
 7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies................. 17
 Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 3. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR........................................ 27
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Health Sector Support
Country:                Chad                    Project Name:
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P055122                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33420
ICR Date:               06/28/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Original Total
                        XDR 31.0M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 30.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Health
Projet d Appui au Secteur Sant
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/15/1998    Effectiveness:          02/28/2001         02/28/2001
Appraisal:             12/07/1999    Restructuring(s):                          12/09/2004
Approval:              04/27/2000    Mid-term Review:                           04/07/2004
                                     Closing:                12/31/2005         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower        Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry     Satisfactory


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                         Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  19                19
Compulsory health finance                                           2                 2
Health                                                             79                79


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                      Primary          Primary
Decentralization                                                Secondary         Secondary
Health system performance                                         Primary          Primary
Population and reproductive health                                Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:        Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly           Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:          Laura Frigenti                        Nicholas R. Burnett
Project Team Leader:     Maryanne Sharp                        Michele L. Lioy
ICR Team Leader:         Maryanne Sharp
ICR Primary Author:      Jerome F. Chevallier



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To extend and improve the provision of basic quality health care through the
implementation of the national health policy and strengthening the institutional capacity
of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).

  Achievement of these objectives will be measured by the following in project areas: an
increase in the coverage of basic health services, the percentage of operational health
districts, and an increase in health facilities utilization rates.




                                                ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                Percentage of health districts operational (as defined in section on Key

Indicator 1 :   Performance Indicators, page 3 of PAD), at end of project , in project-targeted
                areas

Value
quantitative or 45%                        100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Vaccination coverage (DTC3) in project areas
Value
quantitative or 20%                        60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase the number of health centers, in the project zone, which have all the
                essential medicine corresponding to the MPA
Value
(quantitative   40%                        80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Percent of pregnant women in project areas who give birth with the assistance of
                a qualified health agent
Value
(quantitative   10%                        40%




                                                iii

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Percent of children under 5 who receive an adequate supply of Vitamin A in
               project areas
Value
(quantitative  40%                         80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Increase health facilities utilization rates, in project-targeted areas (consultations
               per inhabitant)
Value
(quantitative  1.3                         1.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Cumulated number of new graduated para-medical personnel.
Value
(quantitative  250                         700
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  Number of health districts capable of preparing and implementing budget and
               activity plans in project-assisted areas.
Value
(quantitative  7                           18
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  The 9 existing HIV-surveillance sentinel sites to remain open and operational
Value
(quantitative  9                           16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                 iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP              Disbursements
                                                                    (USD millions)
 1    12/18/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    0.00
 2    06/25/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    1.53
 3    12/19/2001        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   2.50
 4    05/30/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    5.87
 5    12/17/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  10.34
 6    06/19/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  13.61
 7    12/12/2003        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 17.26
 8    06/28/2004        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 23.85
 9    12/20/2004        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 28.51

10    05/31/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                 33.96

11    08/18/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           37.21

12    12/27/2005         Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory           39.00

13    05/31/2006       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 40.80
14    03/07/2007       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 43.48



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
  12/09/2004                 MS     MU         28.51




                                          v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.     After nearly three decades of civil war, the Government of Chad maintained
relative peace and stability since 1993.            The authorities established a good
macroeconomic adjustment track record between 1994 and 1999. Real GDP growth
averaged 3.4 percent per year, and the overall fiscal deficit was cut from 14.2 to 10.6
percent of GDP. The authorities kept a tight lid on overall expenditures, while allowing
non-salary spending in priority sectors (health, education, agriculture, transport and
public works) to triple in real terms. All hiring in the public sector was frozen, except for
primary and secondary school teachers and health workers. Despite progress made
during this period, health outcomes remained well below the average for sub-Saharan
Africa (SSA). The maternal mortality rate at 827 per 100,000 live births and the under-
five mortality rate at 194 per 1,000 live births were high. At 32.5 percent, the DPT3
vaccination rate was much lower than the average for SSA (55 percent). The main
constraint to the development of the sector was the lack of qualified human resources.
The population per doctor and nurse was respectively three times higher and more than
ten times higher than in SSA on average. Other issues in the sector included inadequate
mechanisms to control epidemics, the low capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to
coordinate donor-supported activities, and the difficulty of implementing the cost
recovery policy at the hospital level.

2.     The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of May 1999 was centered on how to
help Chad make the best development use of oil revenues, which were expected to flow a
few years later, while mitigating the risks associated with their sudden increase. Two
CAS objectives were particularly relevant for the project: (i) capacity building for
improved governance; and (ii) establishment of the foundations for improved delivery of
basic social services.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

3.     The objective of the project was to support the extension of basic quality health
services through implementation of the National Health Policy adopted in 1999 by the
Government.     More specifically, the project was expected to (i) reduce the critical
shortage of human resources and enhance the quality of health and management
personnel; (ii) improve the accessibility and quality of basic health services, especially
child and reproductive health in selected underserved areas; (iii) improve the financing
and management of the health system in the context of the national decentralization
framework, and strengthen sector planning; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the MOH for
the implementation of various national strategies; and (v) collect data to evaluate and
monitor progress in the sector. Annex 1 outlines the key performance indicators used to
measure the success of the project, with baseline data and expected outcomes as of June
2005. These include:




                                              1

            Percentage of health districts operational at end of project, in project
            intervention areas: from 45% to 100%.
            Percentage of population to be covered by improved basic health services in
            project intervention areas: to 40% in 2003 and 60% in 2005.
            Number of newly graduated para-medical personnel: 250 by 2003 and 700 by
            2005.
            Vaccination coverage in project intervention areas: from 20% to 40% in 2003
            and 60% in 2005.
            Percent of health centers in project intervention areas with all the essential
            medical drugs corresponding to the minimum package of activities: from 40%
            to 80%.
            Number of health districts capable of preparing and implementing budget and
            activity plans in project intervention areas: 9 by 2003 and 13 by 2005.

1.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

4.      The objectives were not revised.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

5.      The main beneficiaries were the people living in underserved areas, mostly rural
areas, including Kanem, Lac, Moyen-Chari, Mandoul, Tandjilé and Chari-Baguirmi in
two districts. About 2.3 million people were to benefit from the project, including half a
million children under five and half a million women of reproductive age, which is
around 24 percent of the total population.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

6.      The project financed six components with a total credit amount of SDR 31 million
(US$41.51 million equivalent). Costing by component is provided in Annex 2. The
credit became effective in February 2001 and closed in December 2006. Outputs of each
component are outlined in Annex 3. The components are as follows:

7.      Human resource development (US$3.28 million).            This component included
support to the initial and the continuing training of health personnel, including support to
(i) a decentralized initial training initiative launched by MOH to provide accelerated
training for existing and new health workers in four regional training centers; (ii) the
national school for paramedics (rehabilitation of buildings, provision of equipment and
support to students); and (iii) in-service education programs in two regional centers and
for the training division of MOH.

8.      Strengthening district health services in under-served areas (US$25.53 million).
This component was to scale up support to health districts in the three prefectures of Lac,
Kanem and Moyen Chari, and one or two rural districts in Chari-Baguirmi, to render
them fully operational, through long-term technical assistance, support to operating costs
and provision of equipment and medicines



                                             2

9.      Strengthening    health    financing   and    management      and  support    to  the
decentralization process (US$1.43 million). This sub-component sought to strengthen
central level capacity to design and implement health sector reforms, particularly in the
areas of financing and decentralization through support to (i) community participation,
including cost recovery measures; (ii) the decentralization of the health system; (iii)
introduction and piloting of the contractual approach (public/private partnerships); and
(iv) support to improved public expenditure management in the health sector.

10.     Institutional capacity building (US$8.2 million).        This component included
support for (i) the national pharmaceutical policy (including support to the Pharmacy
Division and for the supply of essential drugs to health facilities); (ii) the health
communications policy; (iii) the national STD/HIV/AIDS control strategy (including
improving blood safety, improved STD treatment and control, and reduction of risks of
clinical infections); and (iv) the national maintenance strategy.

11.     National surveys (US$1.88 million). The component included the carrying out of
the National Health and Population Survey, and a contribution to the census.

12.     Project management (US$2.32 million). This component included support to the
project coordination team overseen by the MOH as well as operating costs for other
implementing agencies, including a number of departments within MOH.

1.6     Revised Components

13.     The components were not revised, although certain activities were dropped after
the mid-term review, including the second tranche of the civil works program under
Component 2, when it became clear that project resources would be insufficient to
finance all project activities during the remaining project implementation period, due to
the devaluation of the U.S. dollar.

1.7     Other significant changes

14.     Not applicable.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

15.     Soundness of background analysis. In 1998-99, the Government updated its
National Health Policy. After consultations with its external partners, the Government
decided that it was not yet ready to develop a comprehensive plan for the sector, but
would focus its activities on the roadblocks to the expansion of its health system. The
project was conceived as a transitional step towards support to a broad sector program.
The project addressed five major sector issues as follows: human resource development,
health services at the district level, increased involvement of all stakeholders, including at
the community level, and capacity to implement specific policies. Activities selected for



                                              3

IDA financing were defined taking into account the support provided by other donors.
The project was also fully consistent with the 1999 CAS, supporting two key objectives
of the CAS, namely, capacity building for improved governance, and improved delivery
of basic social services. The project was expected to develop management capacities
required for an effective decentralization of health services. This was a key objective, as
Parliament had adopted a law in 1999, in anticipation of oil revenues that would accrue to
the country, earmarking a large part of oil revenues to four priority sectors for poverty
alleviation, including health. With respect to the second objective, the project sought to
reinforce the capacity of (i) the Government to develop a medium-term expenditure
program in the health sector, and (ii) the local teams of the Ministry to manage efficiently
the resources allocated to the health districts.

16.     The project also sought to consolidate and expand the work of the on-going
Health and Safe Motherhood project, which had been satisfactorily implemented and
included financing for training reform, improvement in the quality of primary health care,
decentralization of resources, contracting for services, financing of health services and
community participation, and improvement of the budgetary process at central and
regional levels. In particular, one approach which proved successful in the Health and
Safe Motherhood Project, was to gradually operationalize all health districts in a
prefecture. In addition to buildings, equipment and essential drugs, the district teams
received assistance from an executing agency to put in place a health committee, cost
recovery mechanisms, and a monitoring system to develop and implement action plans.
Finally, the health personnel in these districts were retrained in the regional health centers.
This approach was to be used in the new project, on all the districts within three new
prefectures (Lac, Kanem, and Moyen-Chari) and build on the previous achievements in
the Tandjilé prefecture, so as to provide support for all activities at both the district and
the prefecture level.

17.     The lessons learned from previous experience were fully taken into consideration
during project preparation.     The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
previous health project in Chad was issued in June 2002. It concluded that the project
outcome was satisfactory and its sustainability, likely. The first lesson was that policy
reforms required for successful project implementation should be discussed and agreed
upon early on. This was done during a multi-donor health sector meeting in March 1999.
The second lesson was to ensure that the senior staff in the MOH and in central ministries,
as well as the regional and local staff concerned with the project should have a strong
sense of ownership of the project. This was achieved in the course of several meetings
held during the process of identification of project activities. The third lesson from
experience was the importance of close donor coordination. Consultations took place
during project preparation with the UN agencies involved and with the French and
European aid agencies during project preparation to ensure that activities supported by
each donor complemented those supported by others. The fourth lesson from experience
was that geographical areas for project activities should be agreed upon before appraisal
to avoid uncertainties during implementation.




                                            4

18.     Partnership Arrangements: The French Agency for Development (AFD) was
responsible for the provision of long-term assistance in the Lac region while the project
contributed with logistical and financial support to the districts. AFD contracted GTZ as
a technical assistance agency for Lac. As GTZ was also the technical assistance agency
for the region of Kanem, financed and contracted by the project, synergy and partnerships
were created between the two regions. Finally, the German Development agency (DED)
was also contracted as a long-term technical assistant.

19.     Assessment of the project design. The overall objective of the project was
sound. Five specific objectives were defined. Achievement of these objectives was a
basic condition for the efficient use of the additional resources expected to be allocated to
the health sector when oil revenues would begin to flow. The project was ambitious, but,
as indicated above, satisfactory progress under the ongoing project warranted pushing the
goalpost higher. It addressed seven policy and institutional reforms, which were all
underway with support from the ongoing project except for the development of a
maintenance strategy. Given the success of the first project, on which the design of the
second was modeled, the team felt that there was a window of opportunity to scale up the
results. Had the country situation not deteriorated in the manner that it did, it is likely
that this second project would have had a solid impact on the ground.

20.     The MOH was responsible for project implementation, using arrangements
already in place under the ongoing project. The project coordination unit (PCU), which
discharged its responsibilities satisfactorily under the ongoing project, would continue to
serve for the new project in the same capacity and with the same personnel. Additional
staff was required, however, including a public health physician qualified in personnel
training and an assistant accountant. As was the case for the ongoing project, the
coordinator would report to the Director General of the Ministry.             A manual of
procedures and an implementation manual were available in draft form, and the
finalization of these important documents was a condition of credit effectiveness.
Bidding documents for the consultant services needed during the first year of project
implementation were also available and those for civil works, which were expected to
start six months after project start, were to be prepared by engineering firms recruited as
condition of effectiveness.

21.     Credit effectiveness was subjected to the satisfactory implementation of no less
than nine conditions. Not surprisingly, these conditions took time to fulfill, and the credit
was declared effective ten months after Board approval. These conditions were sound,
but most of them should have been met before or during credit negotiations. The
economic, financial, technical, institutional and social analyses were satisfactory. The
project was not expected to have any negative environmental impact. Precautions were
taken to ensure that standards of hygiene and sanitation would be met.

22.     Adequacy of Government's commitment.               There were indications that the
Ministry of Health was strongly committed to the implementation of its health
development strategy.      External partners and local stakeholders were extensively
consulted during the preparation of the strategy and the project. There was a consensus



                                             5

among all stakeholders that annual reviews of progress in implementing the strategy
would be held under the leadership of the project Steering Committee, headed by the
Director General and with participation of all directors in the MOH.

23.     Assessment of risks. The risk analysis was weak. The overall risk was rated as
modest. Two risks were rated as substantial. The first one was the risk that inadequate
financial assistance would be provided to trainees and that they would not be recruited
into the civil service at the end of their training. Unsatisfactory implementation of the
law on petroleum revenues was the second risk rated as substantial. However, the Bank
did not anticipate that the Government would amend the law on petroleum revenue to add
defense and security to the priority sectors for spending and eliminate the Future
Generations Fund. As a result of the disagreement about the use of oil revenue, the
Bank's relationship with Chad drastically deteriorated. Other risks, such as the lack of
incentives for local personnel to provide quality services, central government resistance
to decentralization and the sustainability of cost recovery schemes, were all rated as
modest. The risk of inadequate financing of the health sector and/or the lack of political
willingness to finance the sector, which eventually became a major impediment to project
implementation, and the issue of sustainability were not discussed.

2.2     Implementation

24.     Fulfillment of effectiveness conditions took time, which delayed project
implementation. UNICEF, which provided support to decentralized health services in
two prefectures under the previous project, was expected to continue its assistance in one
prefecture and to help with the Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
component. The draft contract for its services was deemed unacceptable but UNICEF did
not want to change it. Another partner had to be found to carry out the activities
identified for UNICEF support.

25.     Implementation during the initial years of the project was successful in large part
due to an experienced project coordinator. As a result, progress was made on meeting the
indicators in each of the project areas. However, the overall country environment began
to deteriorate in 2002. Changes in leadership within the Ministry were numerous, with
five different Ministers of Health throughout the life of the project. The project suffered
from continuous political interference and was subject to erratic decisions that impacted
project implementation. With the departure of the project coordinator in 2004, who was
not replaced for over a year, project management worsened, with a loss of rigor and
discipline as well as low morale of PCU staff. Following the procurement reform in 2003,
the procurement process was particularly slow, because of the complexity of procedures
for approving contracts, an ineffective National Tender Board, and weaknesses in
capacity of the procurement staff in the project coordination unit. Although the Bank
took steps to replace the procurement specialist, and subsequently train the new staff, the
project continued to be plagued by procurement delays. Moreover, throughout project
implementation, the Treasury was late in paying counterpart funds for the project.
Finally, financial management greatly deteriorated during the period of absence of a
project coordinator. Mismanagement of funds was reported concerning civil works and



                                            6

at the local level. These issues were repeatedly highlighted during each supervision
mission and took much of the Bank team's time to resolve. Moreover, as the dialogue
between the Bank team and the MOH became more and more strained, the Bank
increasingly sought to involve the Ministry of Planning in an effort to ensure more
effective supervision of the project by the Government, but without much success.

26.     Major problems began to develop within the Central Drug Procurement Agency
(CPPA), as Government did not pay the Agency for delivery of drugs for three years,
creating serious problems of drug availability in health facilities. Furthermore, an audit
of CPPA in 2004 showed that resources had been mismanaged and procedures were not
followed in the distribution of medicines. The inability of the CPPA to regularly provide
drugs to the local levels compromised the ability of health facilities to function.

27.     Unit cost of project facilities expressed in US dollars increased as a result of the
devaluation of the US currency over the project implementation period (in October 1999
the US dollar was equivalent to CFAF 620; in April 2007, it was equivalent to CFAF
480). At the time of the mid-term review, it became clear that not enough resources
would be available for completing the project because of the factors already mentioned,
and the decision made early on to complete the construction of one hospital and three
health centers initiated under the previous project in the health sector. It was agreed
during the mid-term review that the second tranche of civil works could not be financed
under the project.

28.     Following the mid-term review of the project in April 2004, the Government
requested a one-year extension of the closing date to December 31, 2006. The Bank
informed the Government that the closing date would be extended if two conditions were
met, namely that (i) at least one third of counterpart funds be paid, and (ii) a schedule for
the payment of the Government debt to CPPA be agreed upon, including a first payment
of two thirds of it immediately. These conditions were eventually met, but with much
delay, in June 2005 and the closing date was extended. In addition, in an effort to give a
much-needed boost to the CPPA, the extension of the project date allowed the Bank to
recapitalize the CPPA with funding from the project.

29.     However, in January 2006, the Bank suspended all disbursements to Chad,
following the Government's decision to revise its law on oil revenues. Confronted with a
difficult security situation, due to the resumption of rebel activity and the spillover effects
of the Darfur conflict in neighboring Sudan, resulting in an inflow of about 200,000
refugees, the Government sharply increased its military expenditures, in a context of
weakening fiscal discipline. Instead of addressing the budget management deficiencies,
which were at the root of its financial problems, the Government chose to amend the
1999 law on petroleum revenues to include security, in particular, as a priority sector for
resource allocation. It also eliminated the Future Generations Fund, which had been
designed to enable the Government to pursue the funding of its poverty reduction policies
after the expected decline in oil revenues.




                                             7

30.     The suspension was lifted in May 2006. A Bank supervision mission visited
Chad in June 2006.        The mission determined that spending in categories 5 and 6
(consultant services and training, and operating costs) was much higher than provided for
in the 2006 action plan and budget, which had been agreed upon in December 2005. In
particular, indemnities had been paid to staff of the project coordination unit in
anticipation of their dismissal. Given the higher spending, the mission recommended that
project activities be stopped in July 2006 to avoid overspending the credit amount.
Discussions were held during that mission about the overall health sector budget and the
need to integrate all operational costs as well as staff into the 2007 budget to ensure the
sustainability of project outcomes. A final mission, slated for November 2007, was
cancelled due to the security situation and rebel attacks.

31.     Oil revenues began in 2004, with the share in total revenues increasing from 38
percent in 2004 to 66 percent in 2006. Over the project implementation period, the
budget for health increased steadily, but actual expenditures fell consistently short of
amounts approved ­ a pattern also found in other priority sectors. External assistance
provided on average 63 percent of total funding for the sector during the period 2002-04.
Annual variations in availability of foreign assistance were important, and contributed to
a high volatility of health expenditures. According to government data, the share of the
health sector in total budget execution increased from 5.6 percent in 2001 to 10.8 in 2005,
thanks in part to a sharp increase in external financing, but declined to 4.7 percent in
2006. In addition, even when resources were actually spent, them did not always reach
their intended beneficiaries.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.     Following the mid-term review, the Bank team recommended that an M&E action
plan be developed by an international consultant in collaboration with the public health
specialists of the MOH. This plan was adopted by the MOH and included monitoring of
26 indicators, including performance, process and impact, linked to each of the
components. The objective was that a report on progress on these indicators would be
prepared on a semi-annual basis. The project indicators were selected to assess the
progress of the project in providing access and qualified personnel, essential drugs and
community participation mechanisms in the health sector. It was assumed at the time of
appraisal that if all these indicators moved as planned, the quality of services would also
improve as they represent the various elements necessary to have quality services (i.e.
services provided by qualified staff in health facilities which are equipped according to
national norms and which are stocked with generic essential drugs and medical
consumables commensurate to the level of care they provide).

33.     Modification in the indicators themselves occurred as a result of changes in the
overall national health system (for example, a new administrative health structure
resulted in a higher number of health districts than expected at the beginning of the
project). The project also had some difficulty in calculating certain indicators for the
project intervention areas and began to use national data as a proxy for progress on
project-specific indicators. During the preparation of the M&E reports, it became clear



                                           8

that there were discrepancies in the data collected by the MOH's Department of Statistics
and data available from other surveys and studies, such as the National Multiple
Indicators Survey of 2000 and the National Demographic and Health Survey of 2004.
Moreover, MOH data also tended to contradict selected data being collected by the
project. This was due in part to discrepancies in the process used for collecting data in
districts and the differences in quality of data consolidation and analysis at the central
level.

34.      Given these issues, assessment of the project outcomes and achievement of its
development objectives has been mainly carried out through an analysis of mission
findings and site visits, as outlined in detail in project supervision aide-mémoires.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.      The project was rated as a Category "C" for environmental and social safeguards.
Construction and rehabilitation of health centers and hospitals were undertaken in
accordance with national standards of hygiene and sanitation, and particular attention was
paid to the treatment and disposal of medical and hospital wastes, both for environmental
and public health reasons (HIV contamination). Small incinerators and containers for the
disposal of syringes were provided to health centers. The project also systematically
financed water supply in health facilities in project-targeted areas.

36.      As already indicated, the project continued to be plagued by problems in financial
management and procurement.            Although quality and reliability of procurement
administration was consistently rated satisfactory, compliance with agreed procurement
procedures was rated unsatisfactory throughout much of project implementation,
reflecting continuous delays in implementation of the procurement plan and general
slowness in the national procurement process. On the other hand, even though weak
financial management and accounting was mentioned as an issue from the very beginning
of project implementation, financial management was rated satisfactory until the mid-
term review in April 2004, in large part because of the strong management by the project
coordinator. Based on the findings of the last supervision mission in June 2006, however,
the rating for financial management was downgraded to highly unsatisfactory in the last
ISR. The mission noted that accounting and financial management were inadequate,
which led to overspending in some categories.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.      During the mid-term review, the Bank team stressed the importance of preparing
the transition arrangements to ensure the sustainability of project achievements and
continued operation over time. A sustainability plan was prepared in 2005, but there was
little follow up on the part of the Government, despite regular discussions about this issue
during supervision missions.        The concern for project sustainability was not re-
emphasized in the last aide-mémoire of the June 2006 supervision mission, as more
pressing issues of timely completion of project activities in a difficult environment took
center stage. However, it was clear that sustainability was still a major issue as evidenced



                                             9

by the loss of momentum and the deceleration of activities within the project-supported
health districts during the period when IDA financing was suspended.

38.     Operation of the facilities established with project assistance is far from being
ensured, as the MOH did not receive the resources required for that purpose. Staff in
charge of health district management, who were paid by the project, has now been
integrated into the civil service. However, health districts still do not receive their full
operating budgets. Health districts are therefore not able to consistently provide basic
services to the population.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes
3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39.     The objectives of the project are highly relevant now, but the drive for their
achievement has been lost in a deteriorating governance context.            The project was
designed following a period of steady improvement in the health sector, and in
anticipation of a higher allocation of resources expected when oil revenues would begin
to flow. The project was ambitious, but was expected to build on the success of the first
project and use the same implementation arrangements, including an experienced project
coordination unit.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

40.     Good progress was made in a number of areas under the project. In particular,
under component one on human resource development, the emphasis on training of new
and existing health personnel resulted in a higher than expected number of graduates with
strong basic skills. Moreover, 40 percent of new graduates were women compared to 27
percent at the beginning of the project. However, the quality of training deteriorated over
time as the Government was under political pressure to dramatically increase the numbers
of graduates. In any event, with a deteriorating country context, the MOH had great
difficulty in ensuring adequate staffing of local health facilities, as appointed staff would
simply not show up in distant locations. Although a human resource strategy was
developed, it was never effectively implemented. Under component two, which financed
support to under-served health areas, using the comprehensive approach crafted during
the first project, the long-term technical assistants focused their support on organization
of health services, supervision of health facilities, continuing training of health personnel,
planning for the prefectures and their districts, organization and management of
pharmacies, cost recovery at hospital and district levels, and establishment of hospital
autonomy. These technical assistants achieved visible progress in on-the-job training of
local health officials and, with the consistent provision of an operating budget, health
centers in these areas were fully operational, undertaking the minimum package of
activities and with the basic drugs in stock. Capacity for planning and management was
successfully built at the district levels, particularly in hospitals.

41.     Component three was expected to provide support to cost recovery, the
decentralization of the health system, the contractual approach, and public expenditure



                                             10

management.        Although the framework for cost recovery was put into place,
implementation of this sub-component was fraught with difficulties including the
question of using cost recovery mechanisms for medicines in areas of extreme poverty,
and mismanagement of funds received from sales of medicines by the committees
responsible for collection and oversight of these funds. There was some evidence of
success in capacity building initiatives at the regional and district levels with respect to
management and planning. The contractual approach was piloted under the project with
the use of six technical assistance contracts, which worked well, but it is not clear
whether this approach has actually been internalized by MOH.              Finally, on public
expenditure management, there has been some progress in the health sector with respect
to annual budget preparation and expenditure tracking. However, much remains to be
done.

42.     Component 4 sought to strengthen institutional capacity in several areas,
including the pharmaceutical sector, health communications, support to the fight against
STI/HIV/AIDS, and maintenance.             Support to implementation of the national
pharmaceutical policy was undertaken in partnership with the EU, which financed a long-
term technical assistant. This, however, never resulted in a permanent improvement in
the management and distribution of medicines. The project was expected to play a
critical role in health services related to STI/HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, in
partnership with the Second Population and AIDS project, which is financing the medical
aspects of HIV/AIDS prevention and care. However, little was actually achieved with
respect to STI and HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, except for supply of disposable
auto-blocking syringes and the development of nine new sentinel sites. These sites were
only operational until 2003; after which data has not been collected regularly due to
shortages in operating budgets and medical supplies needed for testing. Finally, little was
accomplished in developing sustainable maintenance. A guide was produced and some
initial training was undertaken, but this was never scaled up throughout the country.
Finally under component 4, the National Health and Population Survey was carried out in
2004 and published in 2005. The census was never carried out.

43.     The outcome indicators defined at the outset of the project included the
percentage of the population living in an operational health area, the utilization rate of
health facilities and the percentage of health districts operational in project-targeted areas.
In the last project monitoring and evaluation report in June 2006, data for 2005 showed
that the first had increased to 98 percent versus a target of 60 percent, the second from 29
percent to 38 percent, and the third from 45 percent to 100 percent. It is not clear,
however, whether these data are reliable. In view of the situation in the health sector, it is
difficult to accept these data at face value. Progress on intermediate outcomes was mixed.
The percentage of health centers in the project zone, which had all medicines required
under the minimum package of activities (MPA), was expected to increase from 40
percent to 100 percent. The latest supervision mission indicated that the percentage
reached 80 percent (100 percent according to the Government). The percentage of
women in project areas, who give birth with the assistance of a qualified agent, was
expected to increase from 20 to 40 percent.          It reached 24 percent in 2006.       The
vaccination coverage in the project areas increased from 20 percent to 64 percent, beyond



                                            11

the initial target of 60 percent. The nine existing HIV sentinel sites were expected to
remain open and operational. However, they have not been operational since 2003.

44.     The project development objective was rated as satisfactory by supervision
missions until May 2005, when it was downgraded to moderately satisfactory. The
largest two components of the project (strengthening district health services and capacity
building for the Ministry of Health) were, however, rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
The project development objective was further downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory
in December 2005 and to unsatisfactory in May 2006, in view of the lack of resources in
the government budget to finance operations of the health districts initially supported by
the project. Moreover, the downgrading in rating reflected the deterioration in recent year
of the performance of the health sector, as shown by the 2004 Demographic and Health
Survey.

3.3     Efficiency

45.     The service standards applied in the health districts supported by the project were
appropriate in view of the limited resources available for the sector. Assuming adequate
allocation of resources to priority sectors and efficient use of these resources in the health
sector, the Government should not have difficulties in ensuring a satisfactory operation of
the health facilities built with project support.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory.

46.     The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. Despite hard-won successes
during project implementation as outlined above, the Government has not been able to
sustain these achievements. Resources available for operating the health districts built up
with project support are now well below the minimum required. Staff assigned to remote
areas is reluctant to take up their posts because of poor working conditions, security
concerns and late wage payments. Despite commitments made by the Government to use
oil revenues to finance priority sectors, including health, operating expenditure in the
sector has not kept up with the increase in facilities. Because of poor governance, funds
intended for peripheral health facilities do not reach their intended beneficiaries.

47.     The deterioration of the overall governance situation in 2003/2004 resulted in
critical issues affecting the Bank's entire portfolio in Chad. These common problems
included inadequate counterpart funding, weak project management and deterioration of
procurement practices. Coupled with poor leadership in the sector and demoralization of
staff, these issues all contributed to making it difficult for the project to achieve its
objectives and sustain results on the ground.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                            12

48.     The intended beneficiaries of the project were populations in several provinces
who had little access to basic health services, with specific emphasis on women and
children. By improving access to quality health care, to child and reproductive health
care, and through control of major communicable diseases such as meningitis, cholera,
and malaria, the project was expected to address the pressing health needs of the
population of one of Africa's poorest countries. Inasmuch as the facilities financed with
project support are operational, poor people, including women and children, are the main
beneficiaries of the project. But, as indicated above, most project facilities do not receive
adequate funding for their operations, and therefore are no longer in a position to provide
the services that the population was receiving when external project financing was
available.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     The number of staff trained in the health sector has considerably increased thanks
to project support. The project was expected to train a total of 700 nurses. Actually, a
total of 1,237 has graduated from the training centers supported by the project. In spite of
the recruitment of this staff by the Ministry of Health, however, the share of health
personnel in total civil service employment has stayed at about nine percent during the
period 2001-2005. Contrary to expectations, the institutional capacity of the Ministry has
not been strengthened. The two components of the project aimed at building capacity for
the management of and policy-making in the sector have not achieved their objectives at
the central level.

50.     The major impediment to capacity building in the health sector, and more
generally in the public sector, has been a deteriorating governance environment in the
country over the project implementation period, particularly since 2004. A civil service
reform was approved in 1998, but has not been implemented because of weak
government commitment. Contrary to the basic principles of the reform, appointments to
key positions are not based on qualifications, but on political affiliation. Performance is
not rewarded and, as a result, civil servants are demoralized.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

51.     Not applicable.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial.

52.     The risk to development outcome is rated as substantial. Project achievements are
unlikely to be sustained. Although budget allocations to the health sector have increased
slightly in recent years, the share of budget that flows to health facilities continues to be
inadequate and thus health facilities financed by the project operate at a low level of
efficiency. Moreover, there continues to be a severe shortage of qualified medical
personnel and the CPPA continues to have problems in financing adequate stocks of
drugs and medical supplies. With increased revenues from petroleum, however, the



                                           13

Government should have no difficulty financing the operating costs of the health facilities
built with project support. In the country dialogue, the Bank has repeatedly made the
point that providing basic health services to the population in the project-supported health
districts would require only a fraction of the resources that otherwise would be used for
financing the construction of new facilities or the rehabilitation of existing ones.
Sustainability of project outcomes was discussed during high level talks following the
closing of the project, including the need for support to health districts through technical
assistance and operating budgets, and provision of basic medicines and medical supplies.
It is hoped that these high level discussions will result in the financing of these essential
elements using the oil revenues.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1     Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

53.     The performance of the Bank in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately
satisfactory. The project was a follow-up operation to an ongoing project in the health
sector. Good progress was made in achieving the objectives of that project and the Bank
team expected that the new project would consolidate results already obtained and
expand access to health services to new areas. The emphasis was rightly put on removing
obstacles to the provision of basic health services to the population in underserved areas.
The project was seen as an important milestone in the preparation of a sector-wide
approach to health development in Chad. Such an approach was seen as essential for
helping the country make good use of its forthcoming oil revenues to reduce widespread
poverty and reach the MDGs.         Considerable efforts were invested to ensure that a
consensus was reached among decision-makers in the health sector and the donor
community on the objectives and composition of the project. Implementation manuals
were agreed upon during negotiations and bidding documents for the first year of
consultant services were available when the project was approved.

54.     The team was encouraged by the progress made under the ongoing project, but the
design of the new project was too complex. The team felt, and rightly so, that they had a
window of opportunity to move forward on health reforms. In retrospect, however, the
project was overly ambitious in an environment which became increasingly hostile to the
efficient use of public resources for development purposes. Given the nature of the
project, the Bank should have insisted on reaching an agreement with the Government on
a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for the sector as part of project
preparation, which was not done. Nonetheless, the project could have been as successful
as the first health project, if the overall governance situation had not changed. This
change had a profound impact on the entire portfolio.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.



                                           14

55.     The performance of the Bank during supervision is rated as moderately
satisfactory. There was continuity in the Bank team. Supervision missions visited Chad
regularly and spent a substantial amount of their time in the field. They provided support
to the directorates in charge of project implementation in the Ministry of Health and to
local teams in the health districts. Aide-mémoires were informative and issue-oriented.
Managers were kept informed and provided feedback and support to the team. Moreover,
a high profile portfolio review held in 2004 looked at systemic issues common to all
IDA-financed projects in Chad, including procurement and counterpart funding.
Although these issues were raised at the highest levels of Government, and the Bank
wrote numerous letters reminding Government of the importance of correcting these
issues, no subsequent action was noted. The Bank team was increasingly forced to work
in an antagonistic environment where it was attacked when putting issues squarely on the
table. Supervision missions, however, should have looked more carefully at budget
allocation and execution issues in the health sector. The ratings given to performance
were too generous.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

56.     The Bank team provided considerable support to the Government for the
preparation of the project and coordinated closely with other donors active in the sector.
Good progress under an ongoing project in the sector, and more generally in
macroeconomic management, led the Bank to expect that the Government would deliver
on its sector strategy. The project was too complex, however, and the risks were not
adequately analyzed. During project implementation, the Bank team was proactive in
helping the project coordination unit and the relevant departments in the Ministry of
Health implement agreed upon work programs.           The ratings in the ISRs were too
optimistic and generous, however, when the leadership situation in the sector was
deteriorating.

5.2     Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

57.     The performance of the Borrower during preparation of the project is rated as
satisfactory. The Ministry of Health took the lead in updating its sector policy in 1998-99
and in coordinating the donor community. It organized a number of workshops and
seminars with health care providers, politicians, religious leaders, the NGO community
and donors.

58.     The performance of the Borrower and the Implementing Agency during project
implementation is rated as unsatisfactory. Early on, progress in project implementation
was adequate, despite delays in credit effectiveness. Problems surfaced rapidly, however,
as the Government failed to provide the counterpart funds required and to pay its bills to
the CPPA. The environment for project implementation deteriorated significantly in



                                          15

2004, with a new Minister for Health, who made a series of decisions compromising
project implementation, including removing the project coordinator and taking more than
a year to hire a new one.      Subsequently, project management worsened, including
procurement and financial management.

59.    Contrary to commitments made in the oil revenues management program, the
Government did not use its oil revenues to increase spending in the health sector. Despite
a huge increase in total revenues, actual expenditures in the health sector in 2006 were
lower than in 2002. As a result, the facilities built with project support did not receive
the required operating funds which, combined with a shortage in qualified medical staff,
impacted the availability of basic health services.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

60.    The performance of the project coordination unit is rated as unsatisfactory in view
of persisting problems with project management, procurement and financial management.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory.

61.    Contrary to commitments made under the oil revenue management program, the
Government did not allocate the resources required for implementing its health strategy.
For lack of appropriate funding, health facilities built with project support are neither
functional nor adequately staffed. Acute political interference, starting in 2004, made
project implementation extremely difficult.

6.     Lessons Learned

62.    The support of the central ministries is essential for an operation with the
ambition of addressing the most pressing issues in a sector. These ministries need to be
involved as early as possible, as their assurance of support to resource allocation to the
sector over the medium-term is essential for the operation to succeed. As part of project
preparation, a MTEF, fully aligned with the sector strategy, should have been formulated
and agreed upon. It was important to make it clear to the authorities from the outset, that
unsatisfactory adherence to the MTEF during project implementation would trigger
remedies.

63.    Supervision of a broad-based sector operation should include a review of budget
implementation for the sector and agreement on an updated MTEF on an annual basis.
This was not done for the project under review. An analysis of budget implementation in
the sector would have revealed increasingly serious problems in public finance
management, including a large gap between allocations and actual expenditures, and
inadequate national procurement and financial management procedures. These problems
should have been discussed and agreements reached on corrective actions. Failure to




                                           16

reach or implement agreement should have led to suspension of disbursements. Looking
only at counterpart funding and project fiduciary aspects is not sufficient.

64.     Heroic efforts to get things done at the micro level do not bring about expected
results if the macroeconomic and governance environment becomes increasingly hostile.
Issues in the sector were brought to the attention of the highest authorities during a
portfolio review in 2004, but no real change was made to address them. In such a
difficult environment, it is critical that the Bank team take proactive and decisive action
as and when major problems emerge, as they did from the outset of this operation. At the
mid-term review, which took place a month after the portfolio review, the Bank team
should have come to the conclusion that continued support to the sector was difficult to
justify under the unchanging country circumstances.

65.     Lastly, in such a challenging and difficult country environment fraught with
governance-related issues, the design of projects should be simple and well-targeted.
Such a comprehensive sectoral project should be neither too ambitious, nor too complex
for implementation purposes. In particular, the use of nine conditions of effectiveness
should raise serious management concerns about the readiness for implementation.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies

66.      Government's comments on the draft ICR are located in Annex 5. It has raised a
number of issues including (i) the lack of revision of the project objectives and scope of
the components following the mid term review; (ii) the impact of the devaluation of the
US dollar on project resources; and (iii) impact of the departure of the project coordinator.
With respect to the project development objectives, although certain activities were
eliminated following the mid term review, in particular, the second tranche of civil works,
the most critical activities continued to be supported, including support to health districts
through the financing of long term technical assistance agencies and operating costs.
Thus it was not felt necessary to modify the project development objectives. The
devaluation of the U.S. dollar certainly had an impact on availability of financing and
resulted in a gap in financing. During the last two years of project implementation,
supervision missions systematically requested and provided support to project staff to re-
evaluate bi-annually amounts disbursed and amounts committed on the basis of the
changing exchange rate to attempt to avoid overspending. Finally, although Government
notes that an experienced team was in place that was further strengthened by the
recruitment of a public health specialist and an assistant accountant, there is no doubt
about the devastating impact of the absence of management within the PCU for more
than a year. Financial management and general oversight of project activities deteriorated
visibly during this period. Furthermore, the recruitment of a new project coordinator was
contentious as the Bank insisted on a transparent and competitive process for the
selection of the candidate while the Ministry of Health wished at that time to nominate a
political appointee.




                                             17

                           Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project was to support the extension of basic quality health services
through implementation of the National Health Policy adopted by the Government in
1999.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target        Formally            Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from                               Achieved at
                                                   approval         Revised Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)            Values            Target Years*
Indicator 1 :   Percentage of health districts operational, at end of project , in project-targeted areas
Value
quantitative or 45%                           100%                        N/A                  100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                    12/31/2005
Indicator 2 :   Vaccination coverage in project areas
Value
quantitative or 20%                           60%                         N/A                   64%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                    12/31/2005



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target        Formally            Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from                               Achieved at
                                                   approval          Revised Target       Completion or
                                                  documents)            Values             Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase the number of health centers, in the project zone, which have all the essential
                medicine corresponding to the MPA
Value
(quantitative   40%                           80%                                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                    12/31/2005

Indicator 2 :   Percent of pregnant women in project areas who give birth with the assistance of a
                qualified health agent
Value
(quantitative   10%                           40%                                               24%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                    12/31/2005
Indicator 3 :   Percent of children under 5 who receive an adequate supply of Vitamin A in project areas



                                                 18

Value
(quantitative   40%                             80%                                               90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                      12/31/2005

Indicator 4 :   Increase health facilities utilization rates, in project-targeted areas (consultations per
                inhabitant)
Value
(quantitative   1.3                             1.8                                          Not measured
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                      12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Cumulated number of new graduated para-medical personnel.
Value
(quantitative   250                             700                                              1237
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                      12/31/2005

Indicator 6 :   Number of health districts capable of preparing and implementing budget and activity
                plans in project-assisted areas.
Value
(quantitative   7                               18
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2000                      12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   The 9 existing HIV-surveillance sentinel sites to remain open and operational
Value
(quantitative   9                               11                                       No data has been

or Qualitative)                                                                          collected since 2004

Date achieved   12/31/2000                      12/31/2005

                                       * Data as of July 2006




                                                   19

                            Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
           Components                                                   Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)       Appraisal

A. SUPPORTING HUMAN
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                         2.58              3.28

B. STRENGTHENING DISTRICT
HEALTH SERVICES IN                         20.36             25.53
UNDERSERVED AREAS
C. STRENGTHENING HEALTH
FINANCING AND SUPPORTING                     1.14              1.43
DECENTRALIZATION PROCESS
D. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
BUILDING OF MOPH FOR
SPECIFIC AREAS (INCLUDING
AIDS, PHARMACEUTICAL                         6.85              8.20

SECTOR, IEC AND
MAINTENANCE)
E. NATIONAL SURVEYS                          1.49              1.88
F. PASS PROJECT
MANAGEMENT                                   1.86              2.32


                Total Baseline Cost        34.28             42.64

Physical Contingencies                       2.78              0.00         0.00

Price Contingencies                          5.59              0.00         0.00
                 Total Project Costs       42.65             42.64
Project Preparation Fund                     0.00              0.00         .00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00              0.00         .00
         Total Financing Required          42.64             42.64




                                             20

(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal    Actual/Latest
           Source of Funds             Type of                                 Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing   Estimate      Estimate
                                                 (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal

FRANCE: French Agency for
Development                                      5.80          5.00           .00

Local Communities                                3.10          3.00           .00
GERMANY: Deutsche
Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG)                   1.80          2.00           .00

International Development Association
(IDA)                                            41.51         42.64          .00

UN Children's Fund                               1.40          0.00           .00
UN Development Programme                         0.75          0.00           .00
UN Fund for Population Activities                0.10          0.00           .00
World Health Organization                        0.80          0.50           .00

(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          21

                        Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Component One: Human Resource Development

Sub-components          Outputs
Initial decentralized       Creation of and support to the Regional Training Schools
training                    with pools of permanent trainers;
                            688 ATS, 53 obstetricians; 161 IDE, 43 SFDE and 106 IB
                            trained
                            Reorientation of the national health school (ENASS) to
                            undertake more specialized trainings
                            Change of status of ENASS to provide it more autonomy
                            Maintenance of infrastructure and equipment
                            Financing strategy to introduce patient cost-sharing
                            Redefinition of the support role of the central level
Continuing training         1,338 health workers trained
                            40 training sessions held
                            Training aboard on 40 separate themes
Support to the Dept. of     Strategy and Action Plan for the development of human
Human Resources,            resources elaborated
MOH                         Three year training plan developed and implemented
                            Support to supervision
                            Implementation of computerized management of the
                            personnel
                            Studies on human resources

Component Two: Strengthening District Health Services in Underserved Areas

Sub-components          Outputs
Civil works             Construction/rehabilitation of 4 hospitals, 4 residences SFDE,
                        31 CS, 27 residences and 54 drillings equipped
Support to              Support with the PRA of Tandjilé and Kanem with
operationalization of   recapitalisation in MEG and training of the managers
districts               Reinforcement of the capacities of planning and management
                        in the hospitals
                        ME available in the services
                        Accountants for the DPS and DS:
                        Micro planning for CS and annual Action plan for the districts
                        and the delegations
                        Management tools for the district




                                       22

Component Three: Strengthening health financing and management and support to
the decentralization process

Sub-components           Outputs
Community                   Development and implementation of the legal framework
Participation               for the Cost recovery and hospital reform;
                            Harmonization of drugs prices;
                            Implementation of cost recovery policies and organization
                            of communities through community health management
                            committees
Decentralization of the     Strengthening the capacities of the Dept. of financial
system                      resources and planning of the MOH through TA,
                            equipment and training;
                            Creation and capacity building of hospital management
                            boards;
                            Technical assistance support to the budget preparation
                            process at the central level; and
                            Decentralization of budgeting, with capacity building at
                            district levels.
Contractual approach        Signatures of protocols with WHO for the contractual
                            approach
                            Contracts entered into between MSP and the agencies of
                            support: DED (Sarh), Bélacd/Sarh (Moïssala), the
                            Adventists (Béré), Bases (Sarh), ITS (Lay) and GTZ
                            (Kanem-Lake)
Public expenditure          Technical assistance at central level to support the
management                  installation of the national accounts of health and the
                            continued decentralization of the health budgets;
                            Reinforcement of the Division of the financial resources,
                            through TA and equipment;
                            Strengthening of the central level capacities through
                            training and recruitment of qualified personnel

Component Four: Institutional capacity building

Sub-components           Outputs
Support to the national     Creation of the Division of pharmacy in the Direction
Pharmaceutical policy       Pharmacy, Drug and Laboratory;
(WHO Support)               Increased availability, accessibility and rational use of the
                            MEG (Access to 70% of the population with the MEG);
                            Capacity development of regional and district pharmacies
                            (supervision, training and installation of management
                            tools); and
                            74 inspections carried out for regional and district
                         pharmacies and health facilities.




                                        23

Health Communication         Specialized training abroad of 10 health communication
Policy                       agents;
                             Training of staff in 14 DRS and 53 DS on information,
                             education and communication methods; and
                             Provision of equipment and logistics.
Support to the national      Construction of a blood bank;
STI/HIV/AIDS program         Development of a National Transfusion Policy;
                             Development of protocols for STIs and opportunistic
                             infections;
                             Creation of nine new sentinel sites and support to
                             publication of data from sites; and
                             Support to the development of the national strategic plan
                         for the fight against AIDS.
Maintenance                  Production of a series of studies for the development of a
                             national maintenance policy;
                              Preparation of guide on maintenance; and
                             Training of four maintenance agents.

Component Five: National surveys

Sub-components           Outputs
National health,             National Health and Demographic Survey completed.
nutrition and population     Census never undertaken.
data collection




                                        24

    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                        Title                  Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Michele Lioy            Sr. Operations Officer              AFTH3

Hugues Agossou          Sr. Financial Management
                        Specialist                          AFTFM

Anne Anglio             Sr. Program Assistant               AFTH3
Pierre Delvoye          Consultant, Paramedical Training     AFTH3
Ningayo Charles Donang  Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Daniel R. Dupety        Consultant, Architect               MNSHD
Mahamat Goadi Louani    Sr. Human Development Specialist    AFTH3
Olivier Weil            Consultant, Public Health Specialist AFTH3
Supervision/ICR

Hugues Agossou          Sr. Financial Management
                        Specialist                          AFTFM

Anne Anglio             S. Program Assistant                AFTH3
Pierre Delvoye          Consultant, Paramedical Training     AFTH3
Ningayo Charles Donang  Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Daniel R. Dupety        Consultant, Architect               MNSHD
Mahamat Goadi Louani    Sr. Human Development Specialist    AFTH3
Josiane M. S. Luchmun   Program Assistant                   AFTH3

Etienne NKoa            Sr. Financial Management
                        Specialist                          AFTFM

Maryanne Sharp          Sr. Operations Officer               AFTH3
Olivier Weil            Consultant, Public Health Specialist AFTH3

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                  33.22
  FY99                                                                 102.85
  FY00                                     28                          158.34
  FY01                                                                   0.12
  FY02                                      1                            2.34
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                        Total:             29                          296.87



                                      25

Supervision/ICR
 FY98                                  0.00
 FY99                                  0.00
 FY00                           1     35.04
 FY01                          14     68.73
 FY02                          20     81.76
 FY03                          16     94.36
 FY04                          29    136.48
 FY05                          38    150.69
 FY06                          38    143.09
 FY07                          16     35.25

                   Total:     172    745.40




                            26

              Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR

The Government thanks the World Bank and is pleased with the production with this
report which will make it possible for both sides to identify the assets and the weaknesses
in order to draw lessons learned from project implementation to ensure improvement in
the quality of future projects. To this end, the Government is pleased to contribute the
following comments to allow the World Bank and the Government to have a common
vision.

1) General Comments

The Government's general comments are related to the context and to the events which
marked the life of the project negatively. These comments concern, in the first place, the
under-evaluation of the component costs during project preparation, and in particular,
civil works and operating costs, and in the second place, the unit cost of the works in
dollars increased because of the fall of the dollar during the project implementation
period. At the time of the mid term review, it was clear that the resources would be
insufficient to continue to the end of the project. It would have been reasonable at the
time of the review to revise the objectives of the project and the costs of the components,
taking into account the financial resources available. Nobody raised that although the
alarm was sounded.

2) Specific Comments (based on draft ICR)

Page 1: Context
The difficulty in containing epidemics, the poor capacity of the Ministry of Public Health
(MPH) to coordinate activities financed by donors and the difficulty in implementing cost
recovery in hospitals.

Cost recovery is in place now in hospitals. The MPH has set up an epidemiologic
inspection committee which meets each week, which has allowed epidemic containment.
Since the last two to three years, the coordination of the external assistance has clearly
improved.

Page 2: Objectives
The objectives of the project and the indicators were not revised at the time of the mid
term review in spite of the difficult situation of the project and the alarm which was
sounded.

Page 3: Components of the Project
The components of the project did not change and their costs remained the same ones in
spite of:
        Lack of participation of other donors in the project despite originally foreseen;
        The fall of the dollar which caused an increase in the unit cost of project activities
        in CFA;
        The under-evaluation of the costs during project preparation.


                                             27

Page 6/7 Project Implementation
Management of the project following the departure of the Coordinator: This departure, in
our opinion, should not have affected the management of the project, especially since the
original project team from PSMSR was taken on for this project, except the
Administrator who was fired; this team was reinforced with an assistant accountant and a
doctor in public health. The activities of the project were not suspended as a result. The
mismanagement of the funds relates to overrun in civil works and operating costs
following the under-evaluation of the costs at the time of project preparation.

Page 8: Extension of the closing date of the project
The extension of the closing date of the project by one year did not produce the results
expected because of the suspension of World Bank disbursements in Chad during the first
six-month period of 2006 as well as the lack of the to finance the continuation of project
activities. However, this extension made it possible the CPA to receive its arrears from
the State and to benefit from a 300 million FCFA recapitalization from project proceeds.
Moreover, this extension made it possible the project to benefit from 400 million FCFA
of counterpart funds in 2006 and 270 million FCFA in 2007 which allowed the project to
pay the suppliers and to carry out the activities envisaged (final Evaluation and the audit
2006).

Monitoring and evaluation: in addition to the data of the national surveys (EDST,
ECOSIT) the MPH uses the data of the DSIS which enables us to make comparisons with
other zones which are not covered by the PASS. These are the two sources which enable
us to undertake analyses and we think that there is not other way to do so. And as a result,
these data show that the indicators in project supported zones are better than in the other
zones not supported by the PASS. In fact, those indicators are falling because of the
abrupt stopping of the project.

Page 9: Fiduciary safeguards and aspects
Weaknesses were cited with respect to delays in procurement procedures and the capacity
of procurement project staff (the latter were replaced). What elements led to the decline
of the rating of moderately satisfactory in 2005 to unsatisfactory in 2006 (supervision of
June 2006), especially given the project did not undertake procurement in 2006.
Supervision missions did not identify ineligible expenditures (in a posteriori reviews) and
the procurement thresholds were respected. All the contracts programmed in the project
except for the second phase of civil works were undertaken in accordance with the
methods initially defined.

The question of sustainability of the project was one of the reasons for the extension of
the project by one year to permit the Government to capitalize on the assets of the
project. In 2005, the MPH put in place a team responsible for following up on and
ensuring the sustainability of project activities. Unfortunately the premature halt of
project activities as of January 2006 (due to the suspension) impacted the operations of
those health centers supported by the project as they were not able to access additional
resources from the State (these had not been foreseen in the 2006 State budget).




                                            28

With regard to the personnel of the project, their integration into public services has been
done. It should be reminded that apart from managers, all the personnel of health
facilities within project-supported zones are being paid by the State. Although the
Ministry is facing problems in the redeployment of female personnel (midwives), all
other health personnel have been redeployed to their original facility assigned even in the
most distant zones.

Page 10
In the light the above, it would be illusory to speak about achievement of the project or of
the millennium development goals despite the fact that enormous progress were made
during the first few years of project implementation.

Page 11
How is the general rating of satisfactory or unsatisfactory justified?

Page 12
The Material Division of the MPH has all the necessary management tools to track
expenditures until their destination. The assertion that funds intended for the peripheral
facilities seldom reach their recipients has not been proved.

Evaluation of the risk concerning the results: All the debts of the State to the CPA have
been paid, and its Treasury is beginning to improve.

The lack of qualified personnel is one of the major constraints of the Ministry in ensuring
the quality of health services. This is why the development of human resources was
considered a principal objective to be achieved during the implementation of the national
health policy. This objective cannot be achieved without the support of the development
partners even if the country has oil resources.




                                           29

                        Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

(i) Chad Health Sector Support Project, Project Appraisal Document

(ii) Impacts du PASS, Ministère de la Santé Publique, February 2007

(iii) Aide Memoires, Missions de supervision, 2001-2006

(iv) Implementation Supervision Reports, 2001-2007

(v) Rapports de Suivi et Evaluation du PASS, 2005 & 2006




                                         30

