Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20189-CD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONNA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31 MILLION (US$41.51 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FORA
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
March 30, 2000
Human Development II
Country Department 7
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1999)
Currency Unit = Francs CFA
FCFA 620= US$ 1
US$.0016 = FCFA 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD       French Development Agency (Agencefrancaise de   MPEP    Management--Petroleum Economy Project (Projet de
developpment)                                            gestion de l1'conomie de l1're petroliere-GEP)
ATS       Nurse-Aide (Agent technique de sante)           MOPH    Ministry of Public Health
CBC       Central Bureau of Census                        MSF       Medecins sans frontieres (Doctors without Borders --
NGO)
COSAN    Health Committee (Comite de sante)               NASHCP  National AIDS/STD/HIV Control Program
CPA       Complementary Package of Activities             NHP       National Health Policy
CPPA      Central Pharmaceutical Purchasing Agency        NPP       National Pharmaceutical Policy
DACS      Directorate of Health Activities (Direction des  OSD      Organization of Health Services Delivery
activites de sante)
DIT       Decentralized Initial Training (Formation initiale  PACP  Population and AIDS Control Project
decentralisee)
DHS       Demographic and Health Survey                   PADS      Social Development Project (Projet d'Actions pour le
Developpement social)
DPT       Diphtheria, Pertussis, and Tetanus Inoculation  PCT       Project Coordination Team
EDF       European Development Fund                       PHC       Primary health care
EDM       Essential Drugs and Medicines Policy            PHO       Prefectural Health Office
ENASS    National Training School for Social and Health   PNC       Pre-Natal Consultation
Workers (Ecole nationale des agents sociaux et de
sante')
EPI       Expanded Program of Inoculation                 PPN       National Population Policy (Politique de la Population
Nationale)
HA        Health Area (Catchment area of a health center: zone   PPP  Prefectural purchasing pharmacy
de responsabilite)
HC        Health center                                   RTC       Regional training center
NRH       National Reference Hospital (H6pital general de  STD      Sexually transmissible diseases
reference nationale)
HSMP      Health and Safe Mgtherhood Project              TSA       Technical support agency
HSSP      Health Sector Support Project                   UNICEF  United Nations Information Communication Education
Fund
MPA       Minimum Package of Activities                   WHO       World Health Organization (OMS -- Organisation
mondiale de la sante')
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:    Nicholas Burnett
Task Team Leader:    Michele Lioy



CHAD
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     3
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         25
2. Financial                                                                        26
3. Technical                                                                        26
4. Institutional                                                                    27
5. Social                                                                           28
6. Environment                                                                      29
7. Participatory Approach                                                           29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   30
2. Critical risks                                                                   31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   31



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           32
2. Other                                                                             32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         33
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         35
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        54
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Analysis Summary                                             55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              69
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      71
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    81
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  82
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 83
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           85
Annex I 1: Letter of Sector policy (with English summary)                               87
Annex 12: Government strategies and project components                                 101
Annex 13: Summary of donor interventions in the health sector                          103
MAP(S)
30840



CHAD
Health Sector Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Human Development II
Date: March 30, 2000                              Team Leader: Michele L. Lioy
Country Manager/Director: Serge Michailof         Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Bumett
Project ID: P055122                               Sector(s): HB - Basic Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          E Credit       El Grant         E Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 41.51
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                      Service charge: 0.75%
Fining Plan:  _ ourc                                         LOCal         FI               otal-
Government                                                      1.13           0.00           1.13
IBRD
IDA                                                            13.63           27.88         41.51
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPMENT                                 5.80            0.00          5.80
COMMUNITIES                                                     3.10           0.00           3.10
DEUTSCHE ENTWICKLUNGSGESELLSCHAFT                               1.80            0.00          1.80
U.N. CHILDREN'S FUND                                            1.40            0.00          1.40
U.N. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME                                      0.75            0.00          0.75
U.N. FUND FOR POPULATION ACTIVITIES                             0.10            0.00          0.10
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION                                       0.80            0.00          0.80
Total:                                                         28.51           27.88         56.39
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Project Coordination Unit
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Mr. Adoum Djibrine
Tel: 235-51-92-04                Fax: 235-51-86-48                Email: psmsr@Intnet.td
Other Agency(ies):
Mr. Mahamat Louani Goadi, Directeur General
Address: Ministry of Public Health
Contact Person: Mr. Mahamat Louani Goadi, Director general
Tel: 235-51-61-55              Fax: 235-51-48-21                Email: mahamat.louani@intnet.td



Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annuail     O.S          9.3         1 3.6        11.7        4.9           I .S
Cumulative     0.5           9.8         23.4        35.1        40.0         41.5
Project implementation period: July 2000 - June 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
DCSPADF-  l V., 2
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The general objective of the project is to support the extension of basic quality health services in Chad
through the implementation of a National Health Policy as defined by the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH). To reach this objective, the project design builds on lessons learned in earlier projects. In
particular, the new project will consolidate and expand activities which have been successfully implemented
in the ongoing Health and Safe Motherhood project.
The specific objectives of the project are: (i) to overcome, at least partially, the shortage of human
resources that now hampers the delivery of health services and to strengthen the professional quality of
health and management personnel; (ii) to improve the accessibility and quality of basic health services,
especially in the areas of child and reproductive health in selected underserved areas; (iii) to improve the
financing and management of the health system in the context of the national decentralization framework
and to plan for use of expected increases in resources available to the sector; (iv) to strengthen the MOPH
for the implementation of national strategies; and (v) to collect data to evaluate and monitor progress in the
sector.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The main indicators and their target figures by end of project would be:
Performance Indicators                           Value at    Value at
Mid-Term   Project end
June 2003   June 2005
Health coverage in project-assisted PHOs (% of the population living in an  40%       80%
operational health area)
Number of operational health districts (district team in place, operating hospital,  9  14
minimum number of qualified personnel) in project assisted PHOs
Number of health districts capable of preparing and implemnenting budgets and  9       13
activity plans in project-assisted PHOs
Percent of operational health areas (see Section B, 3(b)) within project-assisted  60%  100%
PHOs with cost recovery system in place
Number of graduated para-medical personnel                                250         700
Vaccination coverage (DTC3) in project areas                             40%          60%
Percent of health centers in project areas which have all the essential medical  50%  80%
drugs corresponding to the MPA
Percent of pregnant women in project areas who give birth with the assistance of a  20%  40%
qualified health agent
Percent of children under 5 who receive an adequate supply of Vitamin A  60%          80%
Number of PHOs which prepare, with the assistance of the Finance Division,  5          10
budgets integrating both operating and investment budgets
The 9 existing HIV-surveillance sentinel sites to remain open and operational  9       9
These indicators have been selected because they are monitorable on a regular basis. They will provide an
indication of the progress of the project in providing access and qualified personnel, essential drugs and
community participation mechanisms in the health sector. If all these indicators increase as planned, it can
be assumed that the quality of services will increase as they represent the various elements necessary to
-3 -



have quality services (i.e, services provided by qualified staff, in health facilities which are equipped
according to the national norms and which have stocks of generic essential drugs and medical consumables
commensurate to the level of care they provide).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number. 15287-CD                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/15/96
Alleviating widespread poverty is at the core of the proposed FY 2000 Country Assistance Strategy, which
has been circulated to the Board and is expected to be discussed before the end of FY 2000. The project
will support this goal by supporting the implementation of a poverty-oriented health policy focusing on
improving access to better quality primary health services, especially for women and children in
underserved areas. Two key CAS objectives are particularly relevant for this project: (i) Capacity building
for improved governance; and (ii) Establishment of the foundations of improved delivery of basic social
services. In regards to the first objective, the CAS will assist Chad in improving its ability to manage its
resources at the central and peripheral levels. The project will contribute to this objective by assisting the
MOPH to put in place a medium-term health expenditure program and developing at the periphery the
fnancial and management capacities necessary for an effective decentralized management of the sector. In
addition, the CAS specifies, in relation to its second objective, that Bank activities in the sector will (i)
address the severe shortage of qualified health personnel by reinforcing efforts by the MOPH to
significantly and rapidly increase the number of trained staff, especially paramedical staff; (ii) aim to
improve the impact of basic health services on maternal and child mortality; (iii) support development of
private/public partnerships in the provision of health services, including a range of contractual
arrangements between the Ministry and potential private service providers; (iv) strengthen early warning
systems and preventive capacity to address and control epidemic outbreaks and endemic diseases such as
malaria; and (v) combat AIDS through monitoring, preventive action, training of adequate personnel and
coordination of AIDS initiatives with other sectors.
The project will support these actions by addressing the shortage of health personnel, improving the
accessibility and quality of basic health services, especially in the areas of child and reproductive health;
improving the financing and management of health services, including planning for oil. resources; and
strengthening the institutional capacities of the MOPH in piloting reforms and in coordinating external
assistance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
An analysis of the health system was carried out as part of the preparations for the coordination meeting
between the Ministry of Public Health and its development partners (held in June 1998) and of the "Health"
sector meeting held in March 1999. It was used to develop the National Health Policy which is in the
project files. The analysis identified the weaknesses of the current health system and the areas where
improvements are still needed. The MOPH will need to address these weaknesses as urgent priorities
because they will, in effect, block progress in the sector and will be a constant source of frustration for
development efforts. As for the areas where improvement is needed, the MOPH has taken steps for action
and reform in certain areas, such as the pharmaceutical sector, management of health services at the local
level, training of paramedicals. Yet there is a need for sustained action to develop the health sector and put
these imnprovements on a sustainable footing. These weaknesses and areas in need of improvement are
presented briefly below preceding the Government's strategy.
-4 -



Activities under the project will reflect the twelve strategic priorities (no longer strategic or promptly) set
out in the "National Health Policy." Annex 12 includes a table that summarizes the relationship between
the project activities and the twelve strategic priorities of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).
2.1    Areas of weakness
*   Lack of qualified human resources: The health system suffers from a severe shortage of qualified
human resources, e.g., nurses, paramedics, laboratory technicians, mid-wives, and doctors. This
shortage is also due to the fact that no personnel were trained during the war (1981-87) and that the
training school for paramedicals (nurses, midwifes, nurses aids, lab specialists, etc.) was closed from
1994-1997. Many of the country's health facilities are simply non-operational, even at the most basic
level of service, for lack of qualified staff. Some facilities that have been rehabilitated remain closed,
and others operate with insufficient personnel or with personnel lacking professional health
qualifications. As a consequence, most health centers cannot provide all the services included in the
Minimum Package of Activities (MPA), and they have to limit their services to priorities in prevention
such as vaccination, oral rehydratation therapy (ORT), prenatal consultation (PNC), and curative care.
It is general knowledge that this situation can be explained only partially by the lack of financial
resources. Some steps have been taken to remedy the situation by the Ministry, with the support of its
partners (the donors and NGOs which have been supporting the health sector since the Mid eighties),
but more needs to be done. In the face of this catastrophic situation, the MOPH and its development
partners must approach the problem immediately as an emergency, as well as a long-term development
issue.
Table 1. Human resources in Chad, Sub-Saharan African and in developing countries
Chad       Chad        Chad         Sub-          All
(in 1992)   (in 1998)   (in 2000)   Saharan      developing
Africa      countries
___. _____         _      (in 1992)    (in 1992)
Population per doctor  35,000      35,000      32,000       10,800        1,400
Population per nurse   30,000      25,000      25,000       2,100         1,700
Nursesperdoctor          1.2         1.4         1.3          5.0          1.2
* Basic health services are not sufficiently reducing maternal and child mortality: Both maternal
and child mortality rates remain at an unacceptable level (MMR: 827/100,000 live births and CMR:
193/1,000 live births). Although this situation may be due in large part to factors outside of the health
sector (cultural factors encouraging numerous and frequent pregnancies which result in a high
morbidity, poor quality of water, detrimental nutritional practices, and low levels of education among
mothers), the health system is also part of the problem. Specific interventions must be designed to
improve access to, and the performance of, the health system both at the health center level (where the
MPA is provided and where the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses Program will be put in
place) and at the district hospital level (where the Complementary Package of Activities (CPA) is
provided), so that the interventions will have a positive impact on the health status of the
mother-child" target group.
-5 -



Table 2. Health Status indicators in Chad
and in some other Sub-Saharan African (SSA) Countries in 1990-1997
Chad data arefor 1996-1997 (DHS). Other countries andSSA 's are 1990-1996 averages
Country       Life        Infant       Under 5      Maternal     Total   Vaccination      Child
expectancy    mortality    mortality     mortality    fertility  rates       chronic
at birth   (per 1,000 live (per 1,000 live  (per 100,000    rate    (% of DPT3   malnutrition
(years)     births)       births)     live births)     _    immunized)
Chad             51           103           194          827         6.8        20*           40
Madagascar       58           96            162          600         6.0         40           50
Guinea           46           122           210          880         5.7         73           24
Mauritania       53           94            155          800         5.1         50           48
Mali             50           120           220          580         6.7         46           31
SSA              52           91            147          NA          5.6         55          NA
* In 1999, the DTC3 vaccination coverage reached 32.5%, according to the Health Information System Division.
* Partnership with the private sector is still in its infancy: Although the principle of "partnership" is
espoused as much by the MOPH as by the great majority of stakeholders in the health sector,
achievements to date are few.
*   Mechanisms to control epidenics and endemic diseases are still inadequate: Repeated outbreaks of
meningitis and cholera are still frequent occurrences in the country. They appear each year and cause
many deaths among the poor and destitute. While the MOPH has introduced an emergency response
system, including daily radio reporting and a mobile epidemiological data-collection system, it needs to
strengthen its early warning system and undertake effective prevention measures.
2.2 Improvements needed
*   The central admninistration: In the past, development partners (see p 4, par 2.1) tended to overlook
the central level of the MOPH in favor of direct interventions in the field. Over the past several years,
however, they have provided support to certain directorates or divisions: the General Directorate, the
Pharmacy Division, the Health Information System Division, the IEC Division, and the Pedagogical
Unit of the Training Division. Other divisions are still inadequately equipped to perform their
mandates: for example, the Planning Division, the Coordination and Studies Office, the Financial
Resources Division, and the Human Resources Division. The central level today does not have the
capacity to coordinate the activities of its various directorates and divisions, which still tend to work in
isolation from each other. The General Directorate should develop a "management team" approach in
order to coordinate financial and human resources -- both domestic and foreign -- to pilot reforms, hold
annual activity reviews, and establish ad hoc working groups with clear operational goals.
*   Fees for services:  Fees for services and cost-recovery for pharmaceuticals are accepted by the
communities, the government, and the public and private providers, and are in place in many parts of
the country, but methods for implementing them are disparate. Moreover, they are being collected
ahnost exclusively in the health centers. The commitment of hospitals to this approach is a very recent
one and poses a number of problems, since most of the patient population cannot afford to pay the full
cost of services. Progress in this area will require both greater harmonization of practices and a better
way of dealing with the inability to pay and risk-sharing. Community involvement is very important in
-6 -



this area.
*  Better coordination among development partners/donors:  While there has been a notable
improvement in recent years in terms of coordination, particularly through the use of sectoral round
tables, the MOPH needs to develop more periodic and systematic mechanisms (annual sector plan and
annual coordination reviews) that will involve all of the various private sector stakeholders to a greater
degree. Here again, the General Directorate and its Coordination and Studies Office need to be
strengthened so that they can perform these tasks and, in time, be able to manage a full sectoral
program, mobilize and manage resources, and carry out monitoring and evaluation activities.
2.3 Government strategies
The Ministry of Public Health updated its National Health Policy in 1998-99. This policy takes a sectoral
approach, consistent with the national priority of combating poverty. Chad's health policy is based on the
following major principles (see Letter of Sector Policy in Annex 11):
*   Health is an integral part of the well-being of the population: The Public Health Ministry must
guarantee access for all to quality health care. The well-being of the population also depends on
preventive health practices within families (free choice by couples in spacing births, nutrition and food
security, among others) and on improvements in the general standard of living (clean water, sanitation,
and prevention of major vector-borne diseases and epidemics).
-   Health is a sine qua non for development: In all official documents, Chad refers to the role that health
and education should play as factors in the country's economic development.
-   Health is a means of ensuring the balanced and harmonious development of the country: An equitable
distribution of health services will help balance rural and urban areas and reduce regional disparities.
*   Health is one way of fighting poverty: Health is part of a global approach to fighting poverty. On the
basis of coordination of its actions with the other sectors involved -- education, labor-intensive
activities, support for cooperatives, agriculture -- the health sector helps reduce the extreme poverty of
the particularly vulnerable groups in Chadian society.
These principles are the underpinning of primary health care and are part and parcel of the general
policy of "Health for All." It is a matter of creating the conditions in which all citizens can achieve and
maintain the best possible state of health throughout their lives. This "right to health" has led to the
following two policy objectives:
*   To place health at the heart of development, by making sure that health is taken into account in
sustainable development planning.
*   To set up sustainable health care systems to cover the needs of the population and guaraptee equal
access to essential health services.
Rather than draw up a full-scale national health development plan, with a comprehensive programming
approach to the sector, the MOPH has decided to concentrate on the major priorities that today need to be
addressed for the development of the sector. As mentioned above in Section B2, the MOPH has identified
12 strategic priorities. After consulting its development partners, and in view of its limited capacity to
develop and implement a comprehensive plan, the Government of Chad has deemed it advisable to
concentrate on the points that today represent roadblocks to development in the system as a whole.
- 7 -



Through such a strategy, the MOPH hopes to acquire the capacities that will allow it subsequently to take a
more comprehensive programming approach. The proposed Bank project should thus be seen as a
transitional step towards the MOPH objective of preparing a full-scale Sectoral Program at a later stage.
The 12 strategic priorities identified by the MOPH aim at resolving fundamental problems in the sector
which are blocking progress, which need to be looked at in terms of the urgent priorities facing the sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project was designed (using the lessons learned from the ongoing project) to address the above
weakness and obstacles (see Annex 12 to see correspondence between strategic priorities and project
components) through broad interventions and to consolidate and expand the interventions of the HSMP.
These interventions were selected for their complementary to other donor interventions in the sector. The
Project will assist the GOC in implementing its National Health Policy by:
(a) supporting human resource development (with a particular attention to the recruitment of women),
especially through Decentralized Initial Training to address the lack of qualified human resources (see
page 5)
(b) strengthening health services at the district level in selected underserved areas by: (i) increasing
health coverage by progressively operationalizing health districts; and (ii) supporting the introduction
of the MPA in the health centers of the health areas (a HA is considered operational when it has (i) a
minimum number of qualified personnel; (ii) the essential drugs corresponding to the MPA; and (iii)
appropriate buildings with water; and (iv) standard equipment); and the CPA with an emphasis on
reproductive health and family planning (see page 6).
(c) providing for greater involvement from all stakeholders in the health sector in implementing
strategies adopted by the MSP and giving the MSP the capacity and means to implement its new
national health policy by: (i) lending support to the process of decentralization/deconcentration of the
health system (which will ensure that resources reach the regional and the district levels); (ii)
strengthening financial and budget management procedures; (iii) improving the performance of
community participation mechanisms in the financing of health services; and (iv) conducting pilot
experiments in the financing of health services, including solidarity mechanisms and the introduction of
the contractual approach as a policy tool.
(d) providing the MOPH with the capacity and means to implement specific policies including the
National Pharmaceutical Policy, the National Communication Strategy, the National AIDSIMST/HIV
Control Strategic Plan, which were developed under the HSMP and PACP, and by developing and
putting in place a national maintenance strategy.
-8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In. .  d ..   .::  icate  Bank-
Component                   Sector         sts         of    finaning   Bank-
__:__.__:__._._ - (UM ;Total    (US$M)  financing
A. SUPPORTING HUMAN                Basic Health         3.28       7.7       3.13      _7.5
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
B. STRENGTHENING DISTRICT    Basic Health             25.53       59.9      24.92      60.0
HEALTH SERVICES IN
lNDERSERVED AREAS
C. STRENGTHENING HEALTH            Public Financial     1.43       3.4       1.41       3.4
FINANCING AND SUPPORTING           Management
DECENTRALIZATION PROCESS
D. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY          Basic Health         8.20      19.2       7.96      19.2
BUILDING OF MOPH FOR
SPECIFIC AREAS (including AIDS,
Pharmaceutical sector, IEC and
Maintenance)
E. NATIONAL SURVEYS                                     1.88       4.4       1.81       4.4
F. PASS PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             2.32        5.4       2.27       5.5
Total Project Costs                   42.64      100.0      41.50     100.0
Total Financing Required                    42.64      100.0     41.50      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will consolidate and expand the work of the ongoing Health & Safe Motherhood project which
addressed all the following policy issues, with the exception of maintenance.
2.1 Basic training reform The present project will assist the MOPH and the civil service Ministry in
continuing the reform of the training system for paramedical staff. With the support of the Health and Safe
Motherhood Project the MOPH has initiated a Decentralized Initial Training (DIT) program in
collaboration with several other donors and partners (European Union, WIO, UNICEF, French
Cooperation, Medecins sans Frontieres, UNDP). For this program, a new accelerated curriculum has been
developed for paramedical staff. The two-year basic training takes place in four regional training centers
located in N'Djam6na, Sahr, Moundou and Abch&. The students trained in each center are recruited in the
region covered by the center and s/he is expected to work for two or three years in the region before
specializing or moving to another region. Students graduating from this program will not automatically
obtain employment in public service, but may be hired by the private sector (mostly NGOs). As an
-9-



incentive to motivate women to become health personnel, it has been publicly announced that one third of
recruited students would be women. The HSSP project will continue to provide support to the program,
while assisting the MOPH and the Ministry of Civil Service to readjust the training system aimed at
paramedicals. Negotiations, between the MOPH, the Ministry of Civil Service and the National School of
Social and Health Agents, have started to legitimize the program so that eventually basic training would be
conducted in the regional centers. The National School for Social and Health Agents (Ecole Nationale des
agents de sante et sociaux) would continue to carry out specialized training for professional medical staff
(registered mid-wives, laboratory technicians, x-ray technicians, and anesthesiologists). Although at
present, students receive some financial assistance, a strategy to cease this support is being studied by
Government in order to reduce Government expenditures. By the end of the project, the new system should
be in place providing health personnel who will be more likely to agree to work in the regions.
2.2 Improvement in the quality of primary health care. It is assumed that the inputs provided by the
project, such as better and a greater number of trained health staff, improved equipment, affordable
essential generic drugs and health communication materials, are necessary to enhance the quality of
services in primary health care facilities. In addition, technical support agencies will provide assistance to
the district teams in setting up health and management committees (COSAN and COGES) and cost
recovery mechanisms, to "dynamize" primary care health staff, and develop planning and budgeting skills.
2.3 Decentralization/deconcentration of resources. The project will assist the MOPH in the process of
decentralization/deconcentration and will ensure that resources reach the regional and district levels in
project-targeted areas. This will provide greater flexibility to health personnel to manage their activities
and allocate their resources based on the needs of particular prefectures and districts. The new financing
system and changes in the legal framework will facilitate both human and financial resource management at
the regional level. The new management system in project-targeted areas will provide the tools for planning
activities and allocating resources.
2.4 Contractingfor Services. While the principle of partnership is accepted both within the MOPH and
among the great majority of stakeholders in the health sector, achievements to date are few. The MOPH
has recognized that it cannot provide adequate health services on its own. Its strategy is to develop active
partnerships, i.e. partnerships that involve contractual arrangements whereby stakeholders, including the
communities, work actively together as part of a commitment to public service. This process was initiated
during project preparation when the stakeholders were consulted, and an action plan to develop a
framework for contracting services was developed.
2.5 Development of a national mnintenance strategy. Maintenance, or rather the lack of maintenance, is
a major problem. Since new or rehabilitated health facilities are not properly maintained, they need to be
rehabilitated three or four years later. Similarly, equipment is not maintained and is often discarded when
it breaks down. At present, there is a national budget for maintenance given to the Secretary General of the
Government for distribution. However, many ministries, including the MOPH, never receive any part of
this budget. The planned project proposes working with the MOPH and the GOC to develop mechanisms
for preventive maintenance as well as for restorative maintenance. Mechanisms to finance this maintenance
will need to be developed. Basic maintenance of health centers might be financed with part of the revenues
resulting from fees for services in health centers when recovered fees surpass the cost of needed
pharmaceuticals. For major maintenance work, the Ministry will need to allocate a budget. This strategy
should result in considerable savings in periodic investment costs.
2.6 Financing of health services and community participation. Although the principle of cost recovery
(fees for services or payment for pharmaceuticals) is readily accepted in Chad, its development over the
-1 0 -



past few years has been relatively slow, mostly because of the lack of consensus between development
partners. Today, its development still rests largely on support from the development partners. To
consolidate this experimental approach, the Government has introduced a bill on "community participation
in cost recovery", which passed into law at the parliamentary session at the end of 1999. The MOPH will
then have a legal foundation on which to base implementing decrees that will provide a clearer definition of
community participation in general and community financial participation in particular. To get this process
started, the project plans to strengthen the community participation coordination unit at the Directorate of
Health Activities (DACS) to enable it to better perform both its conceptual role at the central level and its
task of supporting the Prefectoral Health offices in passing on this concept to the health facilities that will
implement it. Specifically, the project plans to support the following actions: (i) consolidate achievements
at the first level; (ii) expand cost recovery at the second level; and (iii) initiate a process of innovative
experiments.
2.7 Improving the budgetary process at central and regional levels. With the assistance of the previous
IDA-financed project, the MOPH has developed a functional nomenclature for the MOPH budget which
allow an analysis of the activities of the sector. A financial and budgetary management system has been
put in place in the project-targeted prefectures which is used in parallel with the national budget
preparation process. The present project will conclude this process. It is planned that, as of 2001, each
Prefectoral Health Office will prepare, on the basis of the functional nomenclature a consolidated budget
(showing the contributions of all donors). These budget proposals should become the basis for discussions
with the Ministry of Finances and the development of a Medium-Term Expenditure Program. This process
will be carried out in collaboration with the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project which has as
one of its objective to strengthen public financial management as this functional and consolidated
presentation of the budget will also have to be adopted at the Government level to replace the current
presentation which is done by nature of the expenditure.
3. Benefits and target population:
Poverty reduction:
3.1    The National Health Policy is based is that "Health is one way of fighting poverty". In line with
this principle, the thrust of the project is to improve health care services, prevention, reproductive health,
and the reduction of major epidemic diseases, discriminating in favor of the poor, the population from
under-served areas (mainly rural), women, and children. Since these groups will benefit most, the project is
expected to make a substantial contribution to poverty alleviation and to contribute to a better health status
for women in the project-targeted areas.
Economic benefits:
3.2    The Government of Chad is committed to continue to increase the health sector budget and, when
oil revenues become available, to allocate a significant part of these revenues to the priority sectors,
including the health sector. These new financial resources will enhance the country's development only if
people are healthy enough to use them. The amounts which will be used for HNP, and the identification of
services which will benefit from these resources, will be determined during the life of this transition project
(see section B, para. 2.3).
3.3    Better quality health services will increase the utilization of public health infrastructure and
contribute through cost recovery to financial  sustainability.  A health delivery system  operating
satisfactorily at the primary level will efficiently provide greater health returns and will generate savings by
a more rational use of secondary facilities. Both consumer and provider will be satisfied.
-11 -



3.4    Decentralization of the decision-making to prefecture and district levels, institutional strengthening,
more cost effective interventions, and more private sector business will contribute substantially to
efficiency gains, improving the utilization of very scarce resources and increasing the economic returns of
public health expenditures. These things along with an improved performance in the health sector might
also encourage donors to continue investing in the sector, even after the oil revenues are available.
3.5    The project, which has a sectoral approach, will supplement efforts of other partners in the health
sector, under the coordination of the MOPH. Discussions of the MOPH project team with the major
donors/partners who are preparing interventions in the sectors (in particular, IDA, AfDB, European Union,
German Cooperation Agency, French Development Agency, French Cooperation, UNICEF, WHO,
UNFPA and UNDP) have determined who will do what and where, thereby making a more efficient use of
available resources (see Annex 13 for a presentation of donor interventions).
3.6    Good health has a positive impact on the productivity of adults and on the cognitive and learning
skills of children. The reduction of the burden of infectious diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis,
meningitis, and cholera and the prevention of AIDS/STD/HIV epidemic will contribute to economic
development.
Social benefits:
3.7    The project will make a substantial contribution to equity and poverty alleviation and will enhance
the potential for social development in under-served areas by increasing access to quality basic health
services. An estimated population of two million people (about one fourth of the population of Chad) of
which 1.6 million of women of reproductive age and 1.8 million of children under five years of age will
benefit from the increased access and quality of services.
3.8    The reduction of major public health problems, such as malaria, tuberculosis, AIDS/STD/IHIV,
meningitis and cholera, which disproportionately affect the poor will contribute to equity and poverty
alleviation.
3.9    The involvement of communities and local administration in health facility management will: (i)
help increase the responsiveness of the sector to the needs of the population; (ii) contribute to the project's
social sustainability; and (iii) strengthen the democratization process.
Target population:
3.10   The areas targeted by the project are underserved areas where health coverage is below the national
average. The majority of the population in these areas is rural. The thrust of the project is to improve
health core services, in particular client and reproductive health services, the main beneficiary of which are
women and children under five. In the project targeted areas, about 2,300,000 population would be
covered, of whom half a million are children under five and about half a million are women of reproductive
age.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Impletentation period: 5 years, from July 2000 to July 2005.
4.1    The project will operate at two levels: nationally, and in five selected prefectures of the country.
Action at the central level will lead to application and experimentation at the district level, while actions at
the district level will feed back into planning at the central level.
- 12 -



4.2    Executing agencies: The Ministry of Health through its directorates and divisions will execute the
project. The implementation arrangements used for the ongoing HSMP will be replicated for the most part,
i.e., activities related to the operationalization of the health districts and other specialized activities will be
implemented with the assistance of UNICEF in Tandjil6, and by technical support agencies recruited
following a quality- and cost-based selection in the other prefectures. Local NGOs (such as the Bureau
d'appui a la sante et a lenvironnement -- SECADEV), international NGOs in Chad (such as M&decins
sans Frontires, ACCRA or Action contre la faim, Goundi), and community groups will be utilized when
possible to assist the project activities. With regard to the national surveys, the executing agency will be
the Central Bureau of Census, which carried out the 1997-98 Demographic and Health Survey and the
1993 Census. A separate special account will be opened for these activities that will be supervised by the
Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation, and carried out completely independently
of the health related activities.
4.3    Project management and coordination: The project activities will be managed by the Steering
Committee of the MOPH and coordinated by a Project Coordination Team (PCT) patterned after the same
team as in the ongoing HSMP Project.
4.4    The MOPH Steering Committee, composed of the Director General of Health and all MOPH
Directors will be responsible for planning, managing and monitoring project activities and for coordinating
them with activities financed by other donors active in the sector. The Steering Committee will hold
regular meetings (prepared with the assistance of the PCT) to which MOPH's partners may be invited,
depending on the topics or issues addressed, in accordance with procedures to be defined in the Steering
Committee's by-laws. These by-laws are being revised to reflect a certain number of new responsibilities
added to the committee's mandate. The Steering Committee will also have the authority to make
recommendations for improving project implementation, if necessary. Lastly, it will be responsible for
organizing consultations with the different partners, in particular through quarterly and annual activity
reviews. To that end, the Steering Committee will be assisted by the PCT and to a lesser extent by the
Technical Committee for the Health Sector Coalition (Secretariat Technique de la R6union Sectorielle),
which in turn is supported by WHO.
4.5    The HSSP coordination team will be functioning in a manner similar to that in which the Project
Coordination Unit, which successfully implemented the HSMP, did. It will be headed by a coordinator,
named by the MOPH, who will be under the direct authority of the Director General. The team will not
only include the same personnel as the existing Project Coordination Unit, i.e., coordinator, administrator,
architect, accountant, and procurement specialist, but also a public health physician qualified in training of
health personnel and an assistant accountant. The team will modify its operations to accommodate lessons
learned during the previous project during which it discharged its responsibilities satisfactorily and
acquired good experience in: (i) managing IDA-financed activities; and (ii) coordinating the work of
implementing agencies, the MOPH directorates and divisions, and the authorities at both prefecture and
district levels. In the new project, the Agencefranqaise de developpement health project representative and
his/her administrative support will take up residence in the PCT, thereby facilitating the coordination of
activities with this donor who is intervening in two of the project-targeted prefectures (Lac and Kanem).
4.6    As for the PCU of the HSMP, the role of the PCT will be principally one of coordination, leaving
the implementation to the relevant MOPH entities. However, it will also play an administrative and
supervisory role. In its administrative role, it will be responsible for preparing procurement documents (as
this capability does not exist in the MOPH), manage project funds, prepare disbursement requests for
LOAAF, ensure the liaison with the Project Task Team and the World Bank in general, and act as the
Secretariat to the Steering committee of the Project. In its supervisory role, the PCT will, (i) on behalf of
- 13 -



the MOPH, supervise the consulting firm which will be hired to do the architectural studies and to
supervise the civil works; and (ii) in collaboration with the Direction of Health Activities (DACS),
supervise the Technical Support Agencies which will provide technical support to the operationalization of
health districts. All these activities are included in Component 2, "Support to district health services in
under-served areas." As in the HSMP, the coordination team will work in close collaboration with the
MOPH directorates and divisions responsible for implementing the project components.  All the other
activities of the project (components 1, 3 and 4) will be the entire responsibility of MOPH directorates and
Divisions (see table below detailing these responsibilities) which will work in close coilaboration with the
Prefectoral Health Office (PHO), the district teams, and the Technical Support Agencies.
Table 1. Implementation arrangements for the project
Component/subcomponent                  Entity responsible for managing component
/for participating in the implementation of
subcomponent
1 Support to human resource development                Direction of Human Resources
1. 1 Initial training                                  Direction of Human Resources and Division of
Training, in collaboration with ENASS and
WHO
1.2 In-service training                                Direction of Human Resources and Division of
Training
1.3 Management of health personnel                     Direction of Human Resources
2. Support to district health services                 Directorate of Health Activities
2.1 Consolidation of achievements in Tandjile          Directorate of Health Activities, UNICEF and
PCT
2.2 Extension of the operationalization of health districts  Directorate of Health Activities, Technical
Support Agency to be determined and PCT
3. Strengthening of health financing and management and  General Directorate
support to the decentralization process
3.1 Strengthening of health financing and management and  General Directorate and Division of Finances in
support to the decentralization process                collaboration with ministries involved in
administrative reform
3.2 Support for decentralization/deconcentration of the health    General Directorate and Division of Finances
system
3.3 Support to the promotion and experimental use of the  General Directorate and Division of Finances in
contractual approach                                   collaboration with WHO/OSD
3.4 Support for public expenditure management          General Directorate and Division of Finances
- 14 -



4. Institutional capacity building of the MOPH in specific
areas
4.1 Support for the national pharmaceutical policy     Direction of Health Institutions and Division of
Pharmacy with WHO/EDM
(a) Support to the Division of Pharmacy
Central Pharmaceutical Purchasing Agency
(b) Support to the supply of essential drugs           Division IEC and General Directorate
in collaboration with UNICEF
4.2 Support for the health communications policy       National AIDS/STD/HIV Control Program and
General Directorate
4.3 Support for the national AID/STDIHIV control strategy
General Directorate and Division of Materials
4.4 Support for a maintenance strategy
5. National Surveys
5.1 HNP                                                Central Bureau of Census, Ministry of
Economic Promotion, Development, and
Cooperation.
5.2 Census contribution
Central Bureau of Census, Ministry of
Economic Promotion, Development, and
Cooperation.
4.7    Procedures for supporting the Prefectural Health Offices: To facilitate implementation of HSSP
activities in the project-targeted prefectures, Technical Support Agencies will be recruited by the project to
implement the activities in the delegations and districts in the "Support to district health services in
underserved areas" component. UNICEF, which implemented a similar component in the two prefectures
of HSMP (Guera and Tandjile), will continue to do so in Tandjile. The terms of reference of these agencies
are being finalized. The recruiting of these agencies will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.8    These agencies will be required to support the "decentralized" prefectural or district health offices
in the project-targeted areas. In contrast to the current intervention procedures followed by the HSMP
implementing agencies, the financing of these activities will be the joint responsibility of the CPT and the
PHO concerned. Decentralized special accounts will be opened and they will be managed by the PHO.
Advances from the special accounts will be made to the PHO. The accounts will be replenished upon
presentation of the supporting documents (see Annex 6, section on Disbursement). The technical support
agencies will focus on transferring knowledge and skills to the professional staff of the decentralized
prefectural health offices in the project areas, in order to ensure sustainability and facilitate replicability of
the results obtained.
4.9   In line with this procedure, the Agencies will intervene in the following areas: (i) organization of
health services; (ii) supervision of health facilities; (iii) continuing training of PHO health personnel and
district teams based on a training need evaluation; (iv) operational planning for the prefectures and their
districts; (v) implementation and monitoring of contractual arrangements; (vi) implementation of hospital
autonomy; (vii) design, set-up, and monitoring of mobile teams; (viii) community mobilization and
-15 -



participation, in particular cost recovery at hospital and district levels; (ix) promotion of the risk sharing
concept; (x) integration of national programs to the PMA (in particular, setting up the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illnesses program at the level of health centers); (xi) organization and
management of the Prefectoral Purchasing Pharmacies (PPP); and (xii) putting in place and maintaining a
monitoring system which will provide data on a quarterly basis on the performance of the health system.
4.10   Technical support agencies will be recruited through quality-based selection for the prefectures of
Lac, Kanem and four districts of Moyen-Chari. As mentioned above, UNICEF will continue to play this
role in Tandjile, albeit with new terms of reference. Depending on the level of intervention in the
Chari-Baguirmi, another Technical Support Agency may be recruited. The financing provided in those
contracts will cover the services provided by the technical support agency to the MOPH supervisory teams.
However, alternative arrangements are being sought to allow direct financing for PHO activities, thereby
saving overhead costs on technical support agency use.
4.11   Procedures for inplementing services in the health facilities: The HSSP project will favor
partnership as the means of implementing the MPA and CPA. This could take the form of service
contracts awarded under at least two arrangements: association with the public service of health facilities
already operated by NGOs, or the concession to NGOs of public health facilities. In both cases,
responsibility for health service delivery, in line with the public service principles contained in the National
Health Policy, will automatically lie with the contractors. The Government's commitment to such contracts
will be set down in clauses that relate to the obligations of the MOPH, particularly in the area of financing
and staff assignment. In the project-targeted areas, the HSSP project will provide the financial resources
corresponding to the Government's share in the operating budgets of the health facilities. To that end, the
project will use contractual tools that are being developed by the MOPH in agreement with its partners, and
acceptable to IDA.
4.12   Procedures to carry out National Surveys: The technical work for the HNP survey will be the
responsibility of the Central Bureau of Census (CBC) following the same procedures as those used for the
first DHS which was carried out in the context of the PACP. Technical assistance will be used to assist the
CBC, but the PCT will be responsible for managing the funds, together with the Directorate General of the
MEPDC. The activities undertaken by the project in regards to the census will be determined during
project implementation. A detailed proposal concerning the use of these funds will be submitted to IDA for
review prior to any funds being released for use on census activities.
4.13   Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: Accounting, financial reporting and
auditing arrangements have been satisfactory under the existing project and will continue under the
proposed project.   However, based on the financial assessment carried out by the Bank's financial
management specialist, the PCT will be strengthened with an assistant accountant to assist with routine
activities, freeing the accountant to oversee all administrative and financial transactions with the project
coordinator.  The Accountant's responsibility will be to oversee the accounting and the financial
management system and staff and to transfer funds, with clearance by the PCT Coordinator, to suppliers
and MOPH directorates responsible for implementing the project components. Given that the project will be
using Bank SOE procedures, the Bank Resident Mission financial specialist will verify SOE reliability and
the internal procedures and controls involved in SOE preparation. Although, as mentioned above, the
project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, it does not have in place adequate
financial management systems that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the Project as required by Bank/IDA for PMR-Based disbursement. An agreed
plan of action was developed during the pre-evaluation mission to strengthen the financial management
system of the project and enable it with PMR procedures (this plan is in the Project file). The financial
- 16 -



statements of the Project will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The
selection of an appropriate auditor will be one of the conditions of effectiveness. The auditor will provide
an opinion on: (i) the Project's financial statements, (ii) statement of expenditures (SOEs), (iii) Special
Account, and (iv) a management report on internal controls outlining any recommendation for improving
administrative and accounting procedures identified as a result of the financial audit. The financial
statements of the Project and the corresponding audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.14   Monitoring and Evaluation: The overall project will be monitored on an annual basis, while the
prefectural activities will be monitored on a bi-annual basis against outcome indicators defined for the
development objective and each of the components (See Section on Key Indicators A2 and Annex 1). In
addition to the national studies mentioned below, a monitoring system similar to that put in place with the
assistance of UNICEF in the Gu6ra and Tandjile Prefectures, will be put in place in project targeted areas.
Information collected by the Health Information System Division annually on health services and services
statistics will also be used; in addition, WHO, in its joint program with the MOPH, will provide support to
evaluative research; a DHS was carried out in 1997 providing demographic and child and reproductive
health baseline data; and finally, a beneficiary assessment was carried out in August 1998 whose data used
to design the services strengthening component of the project, will be used as a comparator to assess
beneficiary satisfaction when the next beneficiary assessment is conducted before the mid-term review.
IDA supervision missions will be synchronized with the bi-annual review of the project to be organized by
the Steering Committee. Project activities may be adjusted at those times to accommodate changes in the
sector and/or the pace of implementation and to coordinate with the MOPH and ministries involved in the
decentralization component, and the other partners (donors/co-financiers and NGOs). The Mid-Term
Review will be particularly important for this project. It will be preceded not only by the beneficiary
assessment, but also by an evaluation of project activities, as was done in the HSMP. During the review,
the objectives and the orientations of the project will be examined and adjustments to the implementation
plan may be made; in particular, if oil revenues are delayed, staffing increase and expansion of the sector
may have to be limited. The Mid-Term Review will take place during the third year of project
implementation (in early 2003). Beneficiary assessment will take place at the end of 2002 and in early
2005. Finally, since the 1997 DHS provided baseline data, the next DHS, planned for 2003, will be used
to evaluate the outcomes and impact of the Project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Lending instrunent
As mentioned in the introduction to the Project Development Objective section, the Ministry of Public
Health MOPH has a National Health Policy that takes a sectoral approach, consistent with the national
priority accorded to combating poverty. Yet rather than draw up a full-scale national health development
plan, with a comprehensive programming approach to the sector, the MOPH has decided to concentrate on
the major priorities that today represent the bottlenecks holding back development in the sector. Through
such a strategy, the MOPH hopes to acquire the capacities that will allow it subsequently to take a more
comprehensive programming approach. Consequently, although the proposed project has followed a
sectoral approach during preparation, and is based on a coherent sector strategy and extensive donor
consultation, it has been decided to design a more targeted, traditional sector operation, complementary to
that of other donors, which should be seen as a transitional step towards the MOPH's objective of preparing
a full-scale Sectoral Program at a later stage. This decision is justified because the other conditions of a
SIP would not have been met: (i) the MOPH's implementation capacity, although it has improved in the
- 17 -



past years, as shown by the good implementation record of the HSMP, remains too weak to ensure that a
complex process could be successfully coordinated and implemented by Government without making use of
a fully competent Project Coordination Team, especially when it comes to procurement (civil work and
equipment) and the financial management of IDA funds; (ii) common implementation arrangements will not
be used by donors; (iii) although project activities have been defined in accordance with donor interventions
with IDA as donor of last resort, a five-year activity plan for the project is now in place and project
activities will not be based on annual sector plans (although the annual review will offer an opportunity to
fine tune the annual project plans in response to sector changes and the mid-term review may be used to
revise project objective, scope and approaches); and (iv) technical assistance will still play an important
role in the sector to compensate for the shortage of human resources. An APL-type project was also
considered. This option was not chosen because at this stage the MOPH does not have a real ten-year
strategy for which the project could provide support in the early years of implementation. Here again,
uncertainties surrounding future oil revenues are such that the MOPH is not in a position to draw up a firm
ten-year plan. However, the present project contribution to decentralization and institutional strengthening
is expected to be substantive, thereby preparing the sector for a more flexible type of operation.
Limited versus extended number ofprefectures
With respect to the strategy for broadening health coverage, the MOPH intends to focus its efforts on
progressively making health districts operational and giving them the means to become autonomous. Two
approaches are being at present. One, which has been used for over ten years by the European Union and
by some other donors, is to concentrate on "functional" districts. This implies intervention mainly in the
"capital" district of a prefecture where services and personnel have been concentrated, leaving the
remainder of the prefecture (the smaller town and rural areas) under-served or not served. In some cases,
assistance to the HAs outside the prefectural capital are limited to the provision of drugs and minimal
equipment, but there is no technical assistance or dynamization of the health areas. The EU has used this
approach in nine prefectures, but with a limited impact. The other approach, which proved successful in
the Health and Safe Motherhood Project, is to strengthen the prefectural team by setting up district teams
that can operate the district hospitals and supervise the health areas and to also progressively operationalize
all the health areas of a district and eventually of a prefecture, thereby providing services to the entire
population of the prefecture. In addition to buildings, equipment and essential drugs, the district teams and
the HA personnel received assistance from an executing agency to put in place a health committee, cost
recovery mechanisms, and a monitoring system to develop and implement action plans. Finally, the health
personnel in these districts were retrained in the regional health centers. This "package" approach has the
additional advantage of creating a "critical mass" of health expertise which motivates health personnel.
This approach will be used in the new project. However, because of the high cost needed for such intense
mobilization per prefecture, only a limited number of prefectures can be assisted. Based on HSMP
activities to present, the new project would concentrate on all the districts within three new prefectures
(Lac, Kanem, and Moyen-Chari) and build on the previous achievements in the Tandjile prefecture, so as to
provide support for all activities at both the district and the prefecture level. In summary, the project will
cover 14 districts total, of which 11 new ones and three included in HSMP. If these districts turn out to be
less needy because of activities ensured by other donors (construction/rehabilitation in the case of the AfDB
or the Swiss Cooperation, for example), then the number or districts included might be increased.
No consolidation in the Guera Prefecture
This prefecture was a targeted-prefecture for the first HSMP project in collaboration with the European
Union which provided support to the district hospital and one health center located in Mongo, the
prefectural capital. One hundred percent of the health areas of this prefecture will be functional at the end
by the end of the Safe Motherhood Project, and all the districts are now functional. Theoretically, this
prefecture would have been included in the new project as part of the follow-up subcomponent to the
- 18 -



HSMP. However, during the pre-evaluation mission, the donors and Government decided that the
European Union would cease its support to the Prefectures of Lac and Kanem, but would, on the other
hand, assume the responsibility for the whole Guera prefecture. This decision was based on: (i) the
request from the Government that the EU limit the number of prefectures where it intervenes in order to
conform its approach to that of the HSMP; and (ii) geographical considerations which would facilitate
supervision of project activities with the HSSP intervening in the west of the country and the EU in the
east. The EU has expressed its interest in supporting all the Guera districts as they are all functional now
and to build upon the achievements of the last five years. Steps are being taken to ensure there is no gap in
support: the HSMP will provide support to this prefecture until December 2000 when the new EU project
should be able to take over.
Multi-sectoral AIDS/STD/HIVcontrol and prevention and population activities
Multi-sectoral AIDS/STD/HIV control and prevention and population activities are ongoing in the context
of the Population and AIDS Control Project (PACP) which is scheduled to close June 30, 2001. This
project has been successful in developing the multi-sectoral approach and in involving the civil society in
the population and AIDS activities, in particular through its social fund (FOSAP). It has also launched a
successful social marketing program of condoms and ORT. Serious consideration was given to including
such activities in the present project because: (i) they are successful and should be continued; and (ii) no
follow-up operation were is envisaged. This option, however, has been rejected because it would make the
HSSP and its implementation arrangements too complicated (The PACP's success is thought to be due to
the fact that the implementing agency for the project is the Ministry of Plan and Regional Planning.) This
decision has led the Bank to reconsider its assistance strategy to Chad, and now is considering the inclusion
of a follow-up project in its updated CAS.
Capacity building of MOPH in specific areas
The project will include four subcomponents aiming to strengthen the MOPH's capacities in specific areas.
Two of the four areas (Pharmaceutical sector and Health communication) were addressed during the
HSMP. The support to the pharmaceutical sector will be two-pronged: (i) technical and financial support
to the Pharmacy Division; and (ii) financial support to the central pharmaceutical purchasing agency
(CPPA).  The Pharmaceutical Division has become functional thanks to the technical and financial
assistance of the HSMP, but it is still weak and in need of consolidation. In view of the importance of
pharmaceutical regulations, the HSSP would build on the achievements of the HSMP and assist the
Division in becoming self-sustainable. The other prong does not involve complex activities, but will consist
in financing drugs and medical goods for the CPPA, which was established with IDA financial support.
This support would make it possible for the CPPA to increase its stock and its working capital so that it
can satisfy 100% rather than the present 65% of the demand in essential drugs and medical goods. The
EU, in its 8th EDF, also intends to finance drugs for the CPPA, but its contribution will not meet total
CPPA needs. The EU will also provide technical assistance.
Regarding health communication, the MOPH, within the framework of the HSMP, established the Division
of IEC (DIEC) which now has the capacity to assist the MOPH with its health communication activities.
However, like the Pharmacy Division, this unit is still weak and needs further support.
The third area, AIDS/STD/HIV, is a high priority area. HIV prevalence is still relatively low in Chad, but
it is increasing and it is important that preventive measures and surveillance be continued. This approach is
consistent with the Bank's strategy in combating AIDS/HIV in Africa. Consequently, it was decided to
include in this project some health-related aspects of AIDS/HIV control -- which would not complicate the
implementation arrangements as the National AIDS/STD/HIV/Control Program (NASHCP) is part of the
MOPH -- that other donors are not planning to finance. These aspects include blood safety, development
- 19 -



of transfusion capacity in the National Reference Hospital (NRH), epidemiological surveillance,
improvement of STD treatment and control and reduction of risk of clinical transmission, and all activities
initiated with the financial assistance of the PACP.  In addition, the reduction of risk of clinical
transmission will be implemented in project-targeted areas and will benefit child (EPI) and reproductive
health interventions (transfusions). Activities related to epidemiological surveillance and STD treatment
and control are presently included in the PACP and will be initiated only when the PACP closes.
Finally, the project will give special attention to maintenance which is a real problem. The lack of
maintenance results in a high and rapid rate of investment deterioration. The development of a maintenance
strategy would include two objectives: an educational one, aiming at maintenance, would become part of
the "health worker culture;" and a strategic one where maintenance systems were established and
incorporated into the budget. The cost of this subcomponent is not very high (an estimated US$290,000
for five years) but it could have high returns.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supevso
Setor Issue            j         Project                   PSRRtings    l  :
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Social Development Project     Closed        Closed
Drug procurement and distribution;    Cr. 2156-CD (signed in 1990)
cost recovery; institutional capacity;   and supplemental Cr.
rehabilitation/construction of health    21561 -CD (signed in 1994);
facilities.                      total for both credits US$36.70;
amount or the Health
component managed by the
Social Health Unit: US$8.64
Closed in April 1998
Reproductive and child health;    Health and Safe Motherhood   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
Community participation and cost  Project (Cr. 2626-CD, US$
sharing; operationalization of health   18.5) signed in 1994 and
districts; training of health workers;   supplemental (Cr. 26261-CD,
drugs procurement and distrib'ution;    US$ 10.9) signed in 1998.
pharmaceutical sector regulation;  Expected closing date June 30,
health facilities; financial management 2001.
of health sector;
rehabilitation/construction and
equipment of health centers and district
hospitals.
-20 -



Social marketing of condom and ORS; Population and AIDS Control   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
epidemiological surveillance; STD  Project (Cr. 2692-CD, US$
treatment; Institution building; Social 20.4) signed in 1995, expected
funds for community-based activities in closing date June 30, 2001
the areas of AIDS/STD/HIV prevention
and population; multi-sectoral
approach to AIDS prevention and
population information; DHS and
immigration surveys
Other development agencies
Note: The information provided below
relates primarily to 1998, and is drawn
from the study on "external assistance
to Chad in the health sector:" where
possible, it has been updated. The
number of donors make obvious the
need for strong donor coordination as
explained below in part 3. "Lessons
learned."
AfDB: Primary health care         Health
Reinforcement Project
Primary health care; health
infrastructure rehabilitation,
construction and equipment
UNICEF: Revitalization of Primary    Health/Nutrition
Health Care Centers Project,
Child health: National EPI program
UNFPA (MCH/FP program)            Reproductive Health
Reproductive health; population policy /Population
UNDP/WHO: Planning Division       Health Policy
Support; External aide analysis;
support to round table preparation,
National Health Policy Development
WHO: National Dracunculosis,      Health
Malaria and Leprosy Programs,
Health Education Materials, ENASS,
FACS, Water and Sanitation,
IRA/LMD/ CNNTA SMI/BEF
- 21 -



Swiss Development Assistance (ITS)   Health
Public Health Support Program,
opertionalization of health districts;
primary health care
EUROPEAN UNION - 7th EDF           Health
(AEDES) Community participation and
cost sharing; operationalization of
health districts; training of health
workers; drugs procurement and
distribution;
EUROPEAN UNION- 8th EDF            Health
in preparation
Community participation and cost
sharing; operationalization of health
districts; training of health workers;
drugs procurement and distribution;
health personnel training; some
rehabilitation of health facilities
FRENCH COOPERATION                 Health
Tuberculosis, Trypanosomiasis,
CHINESE (Taiwan) AID              Health
Public Health and secondary care
BELACD
Primary care in the regions of    Health
Moundou, Doba, Pala, Sahr
Medecins sans Frontieres           Health
Cholera et Tuberculosis; primary care
and supply of drugs                                              _"
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Operationally, the lessons learnedfrom previous interventions may be summarized as follows:
Planning of Political Reforms:
*   The political reforms needed to implement the project must be discussed early in the project preparation
process and in all cases before negotiations. For the proposed project, some of the major reforms, e.g.,
the National Pharmaceutical Policy, have already been completed (although the regulatory framework
remains to be put in place) and others have been agreed upon with the Government at the time of the
March Health Sector Meeting (contractualization, cost recovery/financing mechanisms, hospital
management autonomy, community participation), and work on all these aspects is ongoing. For
-22 -



instance, in the case of financial community participation and hospital autonomy, laws were passed in
September 1999 and an action plan for developing the contractual approach has been agreed to and
endorsed by the MOPH and its partners during a seminar held at the end of September 1999.
* Ownership: Senior decision-making levels of the MOPH, and its principal officials nationally and
regionally, must feel a real sense of "ownership" of the project. To ensure this, several meetings with
central level officials (MOPH, Ministry of Plan, Ministry of Finances), with MOPH and its partners
(donors and NGOs), with local administration officials and prefectural and district health teams have
been held during the preparatory phase of the proposed project. Similarly, national officials are being
closely involved in the preparatory studies. All members of the Steering Committee and project
activity Division Chiefs have been involved in project design and in identifying project activities.
* Importance of donor coordination: The sectoral approach taken by the MOPH calls for close
cooperation among development partners. Throughout the preparation of this project, joint and
complementary actions have been discussed with all partners -- AfDB, 8th EDF, French cooperation,
Agence Franqaise de Developpement, WHO, UNDP, UNICEF, and UNFPA -- to ensure that there be
no duplication and that all priorities of the sector are covered. This cooperation will continue during
project implementation when it will be formalized by the development of an annual sector plan and at
least two donor meetings per year. This cooperation will result: (i) in the case of the proposed project,
in better coordination among partners under the aegis of the General Directorate of Health; and (ii) in
later projects, in joint support for a more comprehensive government program.
3 Quality of preparation: The MOPH has selected the geographic areas for project activities before
appraisal. These areas were chosen according to criteria agreed to during the identification mission
thereby improving project preparation by facilitating the costing of required construction/rehabilitation
and avoiding surprises. Moreover, the Government must be firmly and irrevocably committed to these
zones before negotiations start, so as to avoid any future uncertainties.
Inplementation Readiness:
3 In order to speed up the project's launching, it is important that bidding documents for the first year
procurement and the Manual of Procedures and the Implernentation Manual be prepared during project
preparation. For the proposed project, both manuals are already in draft version and their finalization
is a condition of effectiveness. Moreover, the proposed project will benefit from experience with the
"Health and Safe Motherhood project" and the "Population and AIDS Control project." Bidding
documents for the first year of consultation are ready. Documents for civil works, which start only six
months after implementation of the project, will be prepared by civil engineering firms, recruited prior
to effectiveness.
Project Coordination:
* Because the management capacities of the MOPH are still weak and its human resources are limited, it
is important that the experience accumulated through the coordination units of the two ongoing projects
should be put to good use. By taking part at the different project preparation stages, the coordinators
involved can share their experiences and avoid loss of time and effectiveness. The coordination unit for
the "Health and Safe Motherhood project" (HSMP) has been fully involved in the preparatory phase of
the proposed project, especially in designing and supervising the preparatory studies.
-23 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
To prepare for the new situation that oil production will lead to in the next few years, the Government has
drawn up a strategy, which was presented at the Geneva IV Round-Table (October 21-22, 1998), the
objective of which was to "combat poverty." Under this strategy, three priorities have been set:
*   Food security and sustainable human development.
*   Increase of incomes and of productive activities.
*   Strengthening of development infrastructure.
Sustainable human development by broadening public access to basic social services is a central theme in
efforts to reduce poverty, and improve education, training, health, and hygiene. The Government has
formally committed itself to giving priority to priority sectors, including the health sector, in the future
allocation of oil revenues.
The MOPH is also strongly committed: it was deeply involved in the review of its National Health Policy
in the context of the "health" sector round-table process. This process provided for regular consultation
with development partners, where the MOPH had agreed to discuss its health policy and its priorities. The
MOPH has repeatedly invited all national and international partners to implement this National Health
Policy. The project will seek to support the MOPH in this regard by instituting the practice of Yearly
Sector-Wide Progress Reviews under the authority of a Steering Committee, which will bring together all
of Chad's development partners.
It should be noted that in the Round-Table process, the MOPH was regarded as the lead ministry and was
chosen to hold the first meeting after the Round Table. It was one of the few technical ministries present at
the Geneva IV Round-Table.
The Government carefully prepared the project with a team of international and national experts who have
work with the Bank Staff. This team has been involved in all preparatory discussions, has reviewed
studiously the results of the preparation studies, and was the main actor in the design and in the elaboration
of its strategies.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has played a leading role in the policy dialogue with the Government on the health sector.
Through the assistance provided with support from the on-going project and from the preparation budget of
the present project, the Bank has been instrumental, in collaboration with WHO, in helping MOPH to
develop a comprehensive National Health Policy, in putting into effect key reforms, in particular in the
pharmaceutical sector, in initiating reforms in other areas (financing and management of health services),
and in strengthening capacities. In addition, the Bank has played a major role in donor coordination by
assuring that regular meetings are held between MOPH and its partners. The Bank's support for the next
five years will build on these past achievements, and it will ensure that the national health policy is being
implemented. In particular, the Bank will provide support throughout the project to ensure that MOPH
holds an annual sector-wide review meeting with donors.
The special features of the Bank's support for Chad may be summarized as follows:
(a) Thanks to its multi-sectoral mandate, the Bank brings an inter-sectoral vision to the sector, which in
- 24 -



this project translates into: (i) an approach to AIDS control activities that goes beyond the health
sector itself, to involve cooperation with the Ministry of Planning and National Development and other
key ministries such as Defense, Finance, and Communications; and (ii) a process for supporting
decentralization/deconcentration that requires the involvement of the ministries of Finance, Interior and
Public service.
(b) Progress in the health sector will depend to a great extent on whether the social sectors are given
priority in the allocation of oil revenues. Although the Government has passed a law guaranteeing that
oil revenues will be allocated to the social sectors, the Bank will be able to ensure during the country's
discussions at the macro-economic level that this aspect of the government's commitment is respected.
(c) Making health facilities operational depends on having sufficient numbers of qualified health personnel,
assigned to the right places. The Bank will seek to ensure that the priority accorded to the priority
sectors, including health, is translated into priority attention in the recruitment of public servants, in
particular of women.
For each of these points, the Bank's health team will coordinate its efforts with other Bank-supported
projects, in particular with the Management of the Petroleum Economy project which is in preparation and
which will address the issue of decentralization and of financial management. In addition, it will coordinate
with the "Urban development" project (municipal capacity building), the "Education V" project, the
Transport project, and the Capacity building project being prepared in the context of the Pipeline project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Prospective analysis of costs andfinancing of the sector
An economic analysis of the Health Sector in Chad has been undertaken during the course of project
preparation (Annex 4). This analysis shows that in 1997 the Government financed about US$1.2 per
inhabitant/year, while the US$ 3.6 is financed by the external aid (including the direct assistance to the
budget) and the population US$ 1.00, for a total of US$5.8 per inhabitant/year. In 1997 health
expenditures represented 6 percent of the total public expenditures. It should be noted that public
expenditures for non salary expenses have increased regularly since 1994. In 1997, non salary expenses
represented 58 percent of health public expenditures. According to public budgetary projections, in 2010
the Government would spend US$2.0 per inhabitant/year, a significant increase, but even then a large share
of expenditures would be supported by external aid and the population.  At present, non salary
expenditures are mostly financed by direct budgetary assistance. The Government intends to finance these
expenditures itself once oil revenues are available.
At present, the budget is divided between a current budget and an investment budget. The latter, in turn
distinguishes between domestically financed expenditures and externally financed expenditures. The
allocation of expenditures between the current and capital budgets is often arbitrary and provides neither a
meaningful picture of formative and recurrent spending, nor a basis for determining the sustainability of
investment. The two budgets are presented according to different nomenclatures. The current budget uses
an economic and functional classification, while the investment budget is presented in terms of projects.
This makes a coherent economic analysis impossible. There is no consolidated budget table to balance
-25 -



budget aggregates. Work initiated in the HSMP is addressing this problem and will continue in the HSSP
in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and the IDA-financed Management of the Petroleum
Economy project. The analysis also looks at the needs for the sector and makes projection of costs for its
expansion.
Cost Effectiveness: The health interventions supported by the project have been chosen for their proven
cost-effectiveness as demonstrated by results from international studies carries out in Africa and in other
developing countries. In the absence of data specific to Chad, project preparation relied on studies already
performed in developing countries, which are summarized in the 1993 World Development Report and in
Better Health in Africa (see Table 7, in Annex 4). The Project will support the implementation of the
Minimum Package of Activities (MPA) at the level of the health centers and of the Complementary
Package of Activities (CPA) at the level of the district hospital. The Project will emphasize improved
vaccination coverage as well as the monitoring of pregnancies and births, which are the main hazards for
infant and maternal mortality in Chad. Many studies have already clearly demonstrated the importance of
these two elements for economic development at present (since women play a fundamental role in the
Chadian economy) and in the future (since healthy children derive maximum benefits from schooling and
will become tomorrow's productive workers.)
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The cost to the Government (Government and IDA funds) of the five-year health project is estimated at
US$42.64 million, investment costs representing 84.1 percent and incremental recurrent costs 15.9 percent.
Government would finance US$1.13 million (2.6% of total project cost) and IDA US$41.51 million
(97.4%). Other donors, through parallel financing, would contribute an additional US$ 11.7 million.
Moreover, through cost recovery, beneficiaries would contribute US$ 3.1 million.
For the sector to receive adequate funding, MOPH budget is to continue to increase by 20 percent a year
until 2002 (in the context of the Social adjustment program), unless it is decided otherwise in view of the
expenditure review. At that time, it should reach 10 percent of the Government's total budget. Present
budget execution rates, for non-salary expenditures, are assumed to be maintained at present rates, in the
future, at more than 90 percent.
Projections regarding donor investments are also conservative; They assume that donors' financial
contribution to the sector will be stationary, in real terms, at the level of the year 1998. This contribution
would increase if the NGOs contribution are added, as shown in the analysis prepared for the Health Sector
Meeting of March 1999 (in the context of the Geneva IV Round Table Process).
Furthermore, cost recovery assumptions is that, in project targeted areas, the rate of increase of cost
recovery observed since 1994, when community participation was initiated, would continue as more health
districts and health zones become functional, assuming that present performance of the cost recovery
system would continue. An even better performance should be expected if the economic situation improves.
At primary level of care, it is assumed that cost recovery will apply to 85% of the population in 2005
(instead of currently 40%) and that an average of 500 FCFA per capita and per year would be spent for
drugs. At secondary level, 40% of the non-wage recurrent costs is assumed to be financed from cost
recovery and an average amount of 1.000 FCFA per capita and per year to be recovered during the entire
period of five years. There is no tertiary level facilities in the project target areas.
- 26 -



Fiscal Impact:
The prospects for financial sustainability of the Health Sector Support Project are positive. The project
will not pose a large fiscal burden on the country during the project life time or after project completion.
Furthermore, beneficiary contributions towards the cost of the program will increase. However, as
indicated above, the project will ensure that the cost of services in the public sector remains affordable and
that appropriate dispositions be taken so as not to discriminate against indigents in the delivery of health
care. Cost recovery for drugs will continue along the lines of the present arrangements which have proved
effective in providing good quality drugs at affordable prices. Affordability of services and consumer's
willingness to pay will be monitored, aiming to make the under-served groups the principal beneficiaries of
this project. Over the six years of the sector program, it is expected that the Government will better
manage donor inputs (which are expected to remain important), and beneficiaries will increasingly be
involved in both decision-making in, and financial support to, the sector. Decentralization will also play a
substantial role in efficiency gains and in a more rational sector development.
3. Technical:
The National Health Policy of the sector is technically sound. The issues of access, quality, and equity are
addressed in a systematic manner. The main goal of the recent participatory CAS is poverty reduction with
emphasis on the role of the health sector in socioeconomic development. Donors endorsed this Policy at the
Health Sector Meeting, which took place in N'Djamena in March 1999, and are using it as a blue print to
design their respective interventions, all of which focus on the integration of services (44% of external aid
goes to the implementation of the MPA and the CPA, which were defined in the 1993 National Health
Policy on the basis of WHO recognized international norms, while only 15% was spent on vertical
programs). The policy is appropriate for the country.
The preparation of project components is based on international as well as regional norms and practices,
and the project will be carried out conforming to acceptable standards. Decisions on civil works and
equipment necessary to expand and upgrade the health care system have been made on the basis of the
Health Infrastructure Development Plan (Carte sanitaire) and on standardized architectural plans and lists
of equipment, discussed and agreed with Government. Investment and recurrent cost estimates for the
program are based on estimates of prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for inflation. A
reasonable level of price contingencies has been included in cost estimates.
The successful implementation of the HSMP demonstrates the MOPH's ability to implement policy reforms
as well as targeted health interventions. However, the strengthening of the decentralized health services
will require significant effort to strengthen management and planning capacities at prefectural and district
levels. The project will support, in cooperation with other donors (the EU in particular), capacity building
activities both centrally and in all districts directly targeted by the project. In addition, maintenance
strategies will be developed. Training and maintenance guides, prepared in the context of the project, will
be used to strengthen capacities to adequately maintain buildings and equipment at the prefectural and
district level and a greater involvement of the private sector will be sought.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Ministry of Public Health. An in-depth institutional analysis of the MOPH will be done in the context of
the EU 8th EDF Project. However, on the basis of lessons learned during the implementation of the
HSMP, the following has been agreed upon:
-27 -



To remedy some of the shortcomings of the MOPH, certain specialized activities will be implemented with
the support of UN specialized agencies (such as UNICEF, WHO), or "technical supporting agencies"
which will be analyzed on a quality- and cost-based selection. As a condition of effe'ctiveness, IDAI will
receive signed contracls fbr selected 1echnical Suppori Agencies dq9ninig their assistance to PRHOs in
Lac, Kanemn and three districts of 1foven Chari, In addition, national consultants and national specialized
NGOs will also be involved in the execution of specialized tasks such as qualitative research. Finally, the
Government intends to contract with NGOs for the delivery of services. Because MOPH does not presently
house the capacity for the contract management of these activities, WHO/ Geneva, which has pioneered the
contractual approach in the health sector in Africa, has been selected, in accordance with the Bank
guidelines on expertise, to assist the Directorate General in this task.
Although management capacity of the MOPH is still weak, it has demonstrated that, with the assistance of
a qualified Project Coordination Unit, in particular for procurement, it can successfully implement
IDA-financed projects. At the central level, the project will support, in addition to the capacity building
assistance which will be put in place in the context of the 8th EDF Project, capacity building activities for
the MOPH Directions and Divisions which will be responsible for implementing project components of
subcomponents. At the prefectural and district levels, the project will also support management and
financial capacity building of health teams in all the districts to be directly supported by the project.
b. Project management:
The MOPH, through its Steering Committee, which consists of the Director General and all the Directors
of the MOPH, will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. Important decisions will be
taken after consultation with the Steering Committee. The Project Coordination Team (see section on
Institutional implementation arrangements in part C, Description of the Project, for its composition) will
serve as secretariat to the Steering Committee and assist it to prepare the annual sector-wide review and the
annual plan for the sector, which will be used to fine tune the project and adapt it to possible changes in the
sector. In order to ensure the coordination of activities, given the wide array of activities, the PCT will
collaborate with prefectural and district administrations and with the MOPH directorates and divisions
which will have the responsibility to implement and supervise project activities (See Table 1, in Section
C.4.). Important coordination work will also have to be done in regard to other donors, NGOs, "technical
support agencies" and consultants.
The PCT, which will be directly under the Director General, will prepare procurement documents and
disbursement requests, will be responsible for financial management of IDA funds, and will liaison with the
Bank. In addition, it will, on behalf of the MOPH, supervise the architectural firm the Govermment will
recruit by a quality/cost-based selection for the preparation of architectural studies and the supervision of
civil works. The Project Coordinator and the members of the PCT will be recruited on a competitive basis,
with the exception of staff already financed by IDA and whose performance has been deemed satisfactory
and who will be able to continue working for the Project. The terms of reference for the members of the
PCT, which were a condition of negotiation, have been prepared by the project preparation team, reviewed
by the Task Team and found acceptable to IDA. Civil servants will be allowed to compete for the position.
The hiring of PCT staff, satisfactory to IDA. will be a condition of effectiveness and the MOPH will give
assurance that it will keep the PC adequately staffed at all times.
- 28 -



5. Social:
The project will support the priority goal of the MOPH which is to ensure access to quality basic health
care. Specifically the project is targeting people, in particular women and children, in the country's most
disadvantaged areas, through the MPA and the CPA. Consequently, the poor, women, and children will be
the primary beneficiaries of the project and, as the expansion of primary health care will yield more than
proportionate benefits to them, their health status will gradually improve. By improving access to quality
health care, to child and reproductive health care, and by controlling the major communicable diseases such
as meningitis, cholera, and malaria, the project will address the major health needs of the population of one
of the poorest countries in Africa. The project will also support the involvement of the community in the
management and the financing of health care. However, at the same time cost recovery is being generalized
and is expected to substantially contribute to the sector financing (see economic analysis in Annex 4), and
the project will closely monitor the financial accessibility to health services, with particular attention to the
affordability of services in rural areas. In addition, this issue will be given particular attention in the
mid-term beneficiary assessment. Financing mechanisms based on risk sharing will be experimented with to
address this issue. Lastly, by introducing AIDS/HIV prevention activities at the peripheral level, the
project will contribute to slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS which should bring substantial social and
economic benefits and contribute to social equity.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: C
The project is not expected to have any negative environmental impact. The construction and rehabilitation
of health centers and hospitals will be conducted with due regard for standards of hygiene and sanitation.
The project will pay particular attention to the destruction of medical and hospital wastes, both for
environmental and public health reasons (HIV contamination). Small incinerators, meeting international
standards, and appropriate containers for the disposal of one-use syringes will be provided to health
centers. These containers will be disposed of in the district hospitals. In addition, the project will provide a
source of water in all functional health facilities in project-targeted areas.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries will be the poor, found in greater proportion in the project targeted areas than in
other areas of the country, and women and children, the principle recipients of primary health care. The
project was designed according to the results of the Beneficiary Assessment of August 1998. In addition,
consultations were held with central, district, and prefectural administrations, health providers, NGOs and
donors. Primary beneficiary opinion was, and will continue to be, probed through Beneficiary Assessments
before the Mid-Term Review and before the closing of the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
MOPH has frequently organized workshops and seminars to share its concems about the situation in the
sector in general and to discuss specific subjects such as contractualization and community participation.
During the Round Table process, it held two seminars to which were invited health care providers,
politicians, religious leaders, NGOs and donors, to share and discuss the National Health Strategy.
Journalists have always been invited to these gatherings, and the Ministry discusses its concerns freely with
them. The MOPH consulted donors and NGOs on sector issues and the proposed strategies to remedy the
situation of the sector at the Health Sector Meeting in March 1999. Throughout project preparation the
Bank regularly shared information and consulted with all major donors (bilateral and multilateral aid
-29 -



organizations, and NGOs) and financing institutions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A priori, in Chad, the issue of sustainability is less important today than in other countries because it is
expected that oil revenues will, in four or five years, increase the resource of the sector, thereby changing
the current paradigrn. However, it is important to remember that (i) as long as oil has not started to flow,
their resources are only potential; and (ii) increased resources do not necessarily translate into a better
functioning system. Consequently, in order to maximize the benefits of these expected added revenues, or,
in the eventuality that oil revenues are delayed, to maximize the use of existing -- and slowly increasing --
resources, steps have to be taken to make the health system more efficient. For example, management
capacities have to be increased both at the central and the peripheral levels and financial management has
to improve. The project will finance several activities aiming at achieving these goals. The strong support
of the project to capacity building will also foster- sustainability.  With effective decentralization,
prefectoral and district teams will be allocated resources to implement their health plans. The project will
be putting in place management systems and build capacities which will make it possible for these teams to
effectively manage their resources. In addition, in the context of decentralization, there are important
issues to be examined in terms of the oversight that the MOPH will exercise over these facilities. At the
primary health care level, the project will support the establishment of health and management committees
to involve the community in the management of health facilities. As has been shown in the HSMP, with the
assistance of these committees, many health centers are able to cover a great part, if not all of the operation
costs of health centers, including the purchase of essential drugs, but excluding health personnel salaries.
This achievement is already a great step toward increased sustainability and better management of basic
health care. At the secondary level, the notion of autonomous hospitals, especially at the district level, is a
new and unexplored one. Contractualization is another tool designed to assist MOPH in managing health
services more efficiently and in providing higher quality services at an affordable cost. The project will
assist the MOPH to prepare its partners for these changes by financing training and study tours to other
African countries with experience in this area and by providing assistance for developing the
implementation steps for these changes. All these steps will contribute to increasing self-sufficiency and
sustainability. However, it will take many years, even if oil revenues become available, before the system
is really sustainable and donors' assistance is less necessary.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Riskc                       Risk Rati  Ru; isk Minimizatio dMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
Having women health personnel will           M         IEC campaigns, provide transportation, provide
encourage pregant women to come to                     housing for pregnant women
health facilities
Consensus of all partners on the training    N         Health team will continue donor coordination
program
The number of qualified health personnel     M         Health personnel has to be qualified and
has a positive impact on health facilities             motivated. Through the TSA the project will
utilization rates                                      strengthen health personnel capacities
- 30 -



Health committees have capacity to         M         Training of health committees will be done on a
manage health facilities well                        regular basis
People can be motivated to trust "modern"  N         Qualitative studies to better understand
health services                                      beneficiaries, IEC campaigns, provide
mid-wives
From Components to Outputs
Problem of financial aid and automatic     S         Dialogue on public service reform, Information
public service recruitment solved                    campaign, change in recruitment procedures
Decentralization of personnel              M         Dialogue on public service reform and on
management                                           decentralization
Cost recovery scheme prove sustainable     M         Training of health committees IEC campaigns to
inform health facility users
Introduce financial and budget             M         Dialogue on decentralization, Information
management policies and procedures for               campaigns
decentralization and hospital autonomy
Law on oil revenue implemented             S         Macro-economic dialogue, Support from Bank
Legal framework and capacity in place      M         Dialogue with Ministry of Finances and Interior
for implementation of pharmaceutical
policy
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Paramedical students currently receive financial assistance throughout their studies and are ensured
automatic recruitment into the public service upon graduation. However, these benefits are presently being
reviewed by the MOPH, the Ministries of Civil Service and Finance, particularly in the light of
decentralized initial training. If these two benefits were to be withdrawn, the project might well envisage
some stop gap measures to avoid another loss of human resources due to student unrest, leading to a drop
in sufficient qualified health staff.
The contractual approach could be misperceived by same national authorities, as well as by the regional
health staff, who may see in it a threat that the State might withdraw from the health sector. The project
will assist the MOPH to adopt a two-step strategy: (i) broad sensitization of all potential stakeholders
(other ministries, the National assembly, NGOs, local communities, labor unions, professional
associations) starting during project preparation (the November 1998 seminar);  (ii) progressive
experimentation with methods for developing the capacity to manage the process, both among contractors
and within the MOPH.
- 31 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Opening of a Project Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and initial deposit made in
the amount of FCFA 50 million
* Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to IDA, finalized and adopted by the Borrower.
* An external audit firm will be contracted (Annex 6, Financial Management).
* Establishment of an PCT, satisfactory to IDA, with staff appointed in accordance with Annex 6,
Procurement Arrangements.
* Adoption by the Government of the Law related to the Pharmaceutical Sector.
* Recruitment of architectural/engineering firms in accordance with Annex 6, Procurement
Arrangements, to supervise civil works,
*   Signed contracts, acceptable to IDA, with (i) lNICEF (support to the Tandjile and to the IEC
Division); (ii) WHO/OSD (support to activities related to the Contracts for Services); and (iii) with
WHO/EDM (support to the Division of Pharmacy).
* Draft contracts, acceptable to IDA, with Technical Support Agencies which are to provide support
to PHOs in Lac, Kanem and four districts of Moyen-Chari.
* Procurement Plan for the Project satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
a. Management of the Project:
3 Implement the project in conformity with the Project Implementation Manual and the Procedure
Manual.
3 Keep the PCT fully staffed with personnel acceptable to IDA.
b. Counterpart funding:
3   Provide sufficient counterpart funds and replenish the Project Account through quarterly deposits.
c. Monitoring, review and reporting:
* Two progress reports will be provided to IDA before April 30 and October 31 of each year;
The Borrower, through the Steering Committee shall continue to organize two consultative
meetings each year with donors and other sector partners in order to discuss the implementation
follow-up of the NHP in accordance with the twelve orientations defined in the Program.
*   The Borrower will prepare, on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to IDA, on or about April
30, 2003, an evaluation report, including the results of monitoring and evaluation activities carried
out in the context of the Project, on the progress of the Project and identifying the measures to be
taken to achieve the Project objectives. This report will be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA, at
the latest by May 31, 2003. Finally, the Borrower will organize before June 2003, a mid-term
review to which IDA and other development partners (donors and NGOs) will participate. On the
basis of the mid-term review recommendations, the Borrower will prepare, in the four weeks
following the review, an action plan, acceptable to IDA for further implementation of the Project
and achieving the Project objectives.
*  At least two Beneficiary Assessments (including a module on malaria) will be carried out, one in
2002 and the other in early 2005.
d. Sectoral Issues:
*  All the prefectural Health Offices, in the project targeted-areas, will prepare, on the basis of the
functional nomenclature established under the previous IDA Credit, starting in year 2001, a
consolidated budget for the following year (page 13, par. 2.7).
*  MOPH will pursue its commitments concerning its policy of contracting with private operator for
the delivery of services and will discuss the progress made in this regard with donors at least once a
- 32 -



year. By November of each year, IDA will receive a document summarizing main findings and
decisions resulting from the annual discussion with donors on this topic. A Mid-term Review will
take place no later than June 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
I 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
All the procurement documents for the first year's consulting services are ready. Construction is still in
process under the HSMP, so civil works within the new project will not start until the end of the first year.
To ensure that procurement documents for civil works are ready in time, a condition of effectiveness is that
the engineering firms that will prepare the procurement documents for construction will be recruited.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Michele L. Lioy                   Nicholo R. Orne,                  Serge Mi  ilof
Team Leader                    \ ector Mager/Director               Cou;  Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Hieacyo Q            iete        In      ; Ictr     Mo1tb   }& Evau 0o ri~ia Assumptio
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction through:
1. Establish the foundations   1. I Increase health coverage  1.1.1 Annual Health Statistics - Pipeline Project on track;
for improved delivery of basic nationally to 50% by 2004 and and DHS            priority allocation of oil
social services           to 75% by 2008                                        revenues to social sectors
1.1.2 DHS Survey
- Civil service reform-
1.2 50% reduction in      1.21 DHS Survey            - GOC will continue to
maternal mortality rate, (800                        implement the structural
to 600 per 100,000 live births)                      Adjustment Program
by the year 2005, and to 400
by 2010 in project- supported                        - Political stability
Prefectures.
- No extreme adverse
1.3 Reduced infant mortality 1.3.1 DHS               conditions (draught and flood)
rate from 103 to below 95 per                        will occur
1,000 live births by the year
2005 and to 90 by 2010 in the
project geographic areas
1.4 Human Resources Plan   1.4.1 Annual Health Statistics
implemented
1.4.2 Report from the Human
Resources Direction
2. Build capacity for improved 2.1 Real per capita public   2.1.1 Public expenditure  - Private sector involvement
governance                sector health spending to grow review                 will be enhanced
by 10% a year
2.1.2 Annual budget reports   - Improved economic
performance
2.2 Poverty monitoring    2.2.1 Monitoring report
system in place
2.2.2 Beneficiary assessments
2.3 Frame work for the    2.3.1 Public expenditure
decentralization process in   review.
place including appropriate
mechanisms for budget
monitoring and control
- 34 -



Key Pefo m_nce=
Hierarcy of OIjectivos          Ildicators          Mnitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Extend and improve the    1.1. Increase coverage by    1.1. I Annual Health Statistics, Expansion and strengthening
provision of basic quality  basic health services from  DHS, Mid-Term Survey    of other sectors like transport,
health care through the   40% to 60% in 2005.                                   communications, sanitation
implementation of the                                                          and education
National Health Policy and    1.2. Increase health facilities
strengthening the institutional utilization rates, especially in  1.2.1 Annual Statistics,  The drug distribution system
capacity of the MOPH      the project-targeted       Quarterly Services statistics   will continue to work
Prefectures (%)                                      satisfactorily
Improvement of performance
in public health facilities
1.3. 100% of health districts  1.3 Steering committee  Technology will be available
operational, as defined in    reports, Annual Review,  to keep vaccines in very high
section on Key Performance   Technical Support Agencies' temperature
Indicators, at end of project in Reports
project-targeted areas
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Human resources         1.1 25% of new recruits as  1. I Annual Health Statistics, The number of qualified
Development: Increased the  paramedicals are women in   Annual review, Project data  health personnel has a positive
number of high quality human 2004                                               impact on utilization rates
resources in the sector                              1.2. Same as (I.I.I.) above
1.2 Percent of existing staff                        Having women health
retrained at end of project                          personnel will encourage
1.3. Data collected by the    pregnant women to come to
1.3 Number of graduated    Project                   health facilities to deliver
paramedicals: 250 by 2003
and 700 by 2005                                      There is a consensus for all
partners (donors and GOC)
- 35 -



2. Strengthening of District  2.1 Percent of Population    2.1. Annual Health Statistics,  People can be motivated to
Health services: Increase    covered in Project areas: 40%  Annual review, Technical    trust "modern" health services
percent of population covered by 2003 and 80% by 2005  Agency reports and project   especially for deliveries
by improved basic health   (See Section A2 for definition) data
services in project-supported                                                    Health personnel at prefecture
prefectures                                                                      and District level are able to
2.2 Percent of functional                             use financial plans
health areas (see Section A2   2.2. Same as above (2.1.1)
for definition) have cost
recovery sufficient to keep                           Health committees have
health centers running: 60%                           capacity to manage health
by 2003 and 100% by 2005                              facilities income well
2.3 Increased DTC3
coverage to 40% in 2003 and 2.3. EPI coverage surveys,   If better services are available,
to 60% in 2005 in project  Annual Health Statistics,  people will use them
areas.                     Technical Support Agency
reports
2.4 Number of operational
districts in Project areas: 9 by  2.4. Same as above (2.1. 1.)
2003 and 14 by 2005.
2.5 Increased to 20% in 2003
and to 40% in 2005 births    2.5. Same as above (2.1.1.)
attended by trained medical
personnel
2.6 Percent of children under
5 to receive adequate nutrition 2.6. Same as above (2.1.1.)
supplements in Vitamin A:
by 2003 60%; by 2005 80%
2.7 Adequate screening for  2.7. Sentinel data and surveys
HIV/AIDS in all the hospitals
2.8. Percentage of pregnant  2.8. Annual Health Statistics,
women undergoing at least   Annual review, Technical
two PNC                    Agency reports and project
data
3. Strengthening health
financing and supporting the
decentralization/
deconcentration process:
3.a Financial policy,      3.a. 1 Finalize and ratify  3.a. 1. Policy adopted
mechanisms and resources    official policy on cost recovery
identified for the sector  by 2002
3.a.2 Policy and Procedure    3.a.2. Policy adopted
Manual for hospital autonomy
-36 -



3.a.3 Number of PHOs      3.a.3. Institutional assessment
preparing integrated budget in of economic administrations
Project areas: 5 by 2003 and  (Management of the
10 by 2005                Petroleum Economy Project)
3.a.4 Subsidy for district  3.a.4. Review of MOPH draft
hospital drugs clearly    budget for 2001
identified in the MOPH
budget by 2001
3.b Improved and increased   3.b. I Steering Committee  3.b.1. Steering Committee    European Union will provide
capacities for managing the   Planning and Managing the  reports                TA at Central level for
system and preparing reforms sector by 2001                                     capacity building
(including partnership with                          3.b.2. Framework adopted by
private sector) at central level 3.b.2 Framework for  GOC
contractualization developed
by end 2001
3.b.3 Number of HD able to   3.b.3.1 Data collected by
prepare and implement an    Project and reports from
activity plan and a budget in  Technical Support Agencies
Project areas: 9 by 2003 and
13 by 2005.
3.c Have better qualified  3.c. 1 Number of district and   3.c. . Project data, Annual
health and management     prefectural teams trained  Review
personnel at prefecture and
district levels to plan and  3.c.2 Number of district and   3.c.2. Project data, Annual
carry out agreed on activities. prefectural teams functional  Review
3.c.3 Number of contractual  3.c.3. Review of contracts,
arrangements in place     Technical Supporting
Agencies Reports
3.d. Develop a Medium-Term 3.d. 1 Annual PER starting    3.d. 1. PER report     Data on sector expenditures
Sector Expenditure Program   2001                                               are used to better plan and
manage the sector
4. Institutional Capacity
Building of MOPH in
Specific Areas:
4.a Consolidate the       4.a.1 Pharmacy Division    4.a.1. PD reports, Supervision
mechanisms put in place   self-sufficient            reports
during the HSMP to
implement the National    4.a.2 Percent of HC in Project 4.a.2. Technical Supporting
Pharmaceutical Policy     areas having all the       Agencies Reports,
PMA-related essential drugs:  Supervision reports
50% in 2003 and 80% in 2005
- 37 -



4.b Support the DIED to   4.b.1 Number of qualitative   4.b. 1. Study reports, messages
implement the National    studies                   for communication campaign
Health Communication
Strategy                                            4.b.2. Communication
4.b.2 Strengthen collaboration strategies for national
between national programs   programs
and IEC division
4.c Continued support to the  4.c. I Blood safety in hospitals 4.c. 1. Laboratory and hospital
National AIDS/STD/HIV                               reports, supervision reports
Control Program
4.c.2 Number of health    4.c.2. NASHCP reports,
facilities treating STDs  Annual Health Statistics
according to protocols
4.c.3 Number of sentinel sites 4.c.3. NASHCP reports
operational: 9 during the
duration of the Project
4.d Development and putting  4.d. 1 Strategy for medical    4.d. 1. Strategy adopted
in place of a national    equipment developed and
maintenance strategy      approved
4.d.2 Strategy for maintenance 4.d.2.. Strategy adopted
of health facilities developed
and approved
4.d.3 Line item for financing 4.d.3. Resources available to
of cost of maintenance in  MOPH for maintenance
MOPH budget by 2002
4.d.4 Two maintenance     4.d.4. Guides available
guides for concerned
personnel developed
5. Assist the Government in
collecting socio-demographic
data.
5.a Carry out a national HNP 5.a.1 socio-demographic data 5.a.l. Survey report.
survey                    available
5.b Contribute to the Census                        5.b. 1. Census publication
5.b. 1 Census data available.
- 38 -



Key PerforMance
Hierarmhy of Obiectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation- Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Support for Human      US$3,280,000
Resource Development
1. Strengthen the         US1,150,000                Annual report on number of  Problems of financial aid and
decentralized initial training                       students trained, numbers of  automatic public service
program for paramedic                                graduates, numbers of trainers recruitment solved.
personnel
2. Improve the quality of  US$1,250,000              Annual report              Over-sight over local -
existing health care providers                                                  personnel will be possible,
through refresher courses                                                       decentralization of personnel
management
3. Train district officials in   US$880,000          Annual report on number of  In-service training improve
personnel management                                 personnel trained by type of  the performance of health
training                  personnel
B. Strengthening of Health  US$25,530,000
Services at District Level
1. Consolidate support to the  US$3,840,000          Annual report, Disbursement Cost recovery program will
health services of the previous                      report, Technical Support    prove to be sustainable
project in Tandjile                                  Agency reports
2. Develop health         US$21,690,000              Annual report, Disbursement Consultation with existing
infrastructures and services in                      report, Procurement files,    partners, including NGOs;
severely disadvantaged                               Technical Support Agency    selection of Technical Support
districts (see definition of                         reports                    Agencies
functional district in Block ??)
C. Support for Financial    US$1,430,000
Reform in the Health Sector
decentralization/deconcentra
tion
1. Improve the performance of US$380,000             Proceedings of National    Participation of all
cost-recovery systems                                seminar.                   development partners.
2. Introduce financial and    US$230,000             Annual report              Legal framework adopted.
budget management policies
and procedures for
decentralization and hospital
autonomy.
- 39 -



3. Promote stronger       US$410,000                Annual report             Political sensitization has been
partnership with the private                                                  done so that authorities accept
sector through                                                                contractualization
experimentation with the                                                      NGOs and private sector are
contractual approach.                                                         able/willing to be partners
4. Work with government to  US$410,000              Consultant report         Law on the oil revenues
develop a public expenditure                                                  implemented
program
D. Institutional Capacity    US$8,200,000
Strengthening of MOPH in
Specific Areas
1. Help plan and coordinate   US$1,990,000         CPA Financial reports,     Legal framework in place
activities leading to an                            Consultant reports, Health    Agreement with Ministry of
improved national                                   Statistics                Finance
pharmaceutical policy
2. Assist in implementing the US$1,740,000          IEC Division Annual Report, Political will, Collaboration of
national health                                     Qualitative studies, Consultant Ministry of Communication
communication strategy                              reports
3. Continue to support the    US$4,190,000          NACP reports, Annual review
National AIDS/STD/HIV
Control Program.
4. Develop and put in place a US$290,000            Annual review             Political will, recognition of
national maintenance strategy                                                 the need for preventive
maintenance
E. National Surveys       US$1,880,000
1. HNP survey            US$1,510,000               Survey report
2. Census contribution    US$370,000                Census publication, progress
reports, annual budgets,
working plans
F. PASS Management        US$2,320,000              Annual review
/Coordination
-40 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
The Health Sector Support Project (HSSP), designed on the basis of a sectoral approach, aims at
supplementing the assistance provided by the other development partners in implementing the National
Health Policy from the year 2000 to 2004. This policy was presented and discussed on March 10 and 11,
1999, at the Health Sector Meeting that followed the Geneva IV Round Table of October 1998. All
MOPH's partners have endorsed this Policy, which is used as a framework within which donor
interventions are spaced (for a Summary of Donors' interventions see Annex 13). The present project was
designed within this Policy framework (see Annex 12, "Linkages between the National Health Policy and
the HSSP's planned interventions") to assist Chad in the transition of its economy expected to result from
developments in the oil sector. The mid-term review will be particularly important for this project, since
changes in project strategies may need to be made to reflect changes in the economic sphere at that time.
The project also builds on lessons learned from the Social Development Action Project (PADS) completed
in April 1998, the Population and AIDS Control Project (PACP), and the Safe Motherhood Project
(HSMP) scheduled for completion in June 2001. In particular, it aims at consolidating the achievements of
the HSMP and duplicating in new areas the successful interventions carried out in the prefectures of Guera
and Tandjile.
Accordingly, the project development objective is to support the extension of basic quality health services
through the implementation of the National Health policy (NHP). The specific objectives of the project are:
(i) to overcome, at least partially, the shortage of human resources that now hampers the delivery of health
services and to strengthen the professional quality of health and management personnel; (ii) to improve the
accessibility and quality of basic health services, especially in the realm of child and reproductive health in
selected under-served areas; (iii) to improve the financing and management of the health system in the
context of the national decentralization framework and to plan for use of expected increases in resources
available to the sector; and (iv) to strengthen the MOPH for the implementation of national strategies.
The HSSP is made up of five components corresponding to the "major concerns" expressed by the health
sector authorities and revisited during the meeting between the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and the
donors in October 1999. As was mentioned above, all of these components continue on-going activities
(training, extension of health coverage and support to the budgetary process) or support entities (CPPA,
IEC Division, Division of Pharmacy) strengthened with the support of the HSMP (components I to 4) or
carried out with the support of the PACP (component 5--national surveys). The description of the project
components reveals how project interventions complement other donor interventions.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.28 million
1.    Support to human resource development
The lack of health care personnel, particularly paramedicals, in the health facilities is the principal
roadblock to the sector's development. For lack of a minimum staff, some health centers (HC) that are
often properly equipped are unable to operate. This issue must be resolved if universal health coverage and
better quality services are to become a reality. This shortage of staff may be attributed at least partially to
the fact that the only paramedical training institution, the National School of Social and Health Workers (
Ecole Nationale des agents sociaux et de sante -ENASS) was closed between 1993 and 1997. It has since
reopened, but the process has been a gradual one. The MOPH is also implementing a parallel training
initiative known as Decentralized Initial Training (DIT), initiated by the HSMP, to provide accelerated
-41 -



training (two years) for health workers (equivalent to nurse-aids -- agents techniques de sante or A TS) in
four regional training centers (RTCs) in N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh and Ab&eh. This program is
designed to train four successive classes of 150 ATS each, making a total output of 600 additional
workers. Student selection and certification is sponsored by ENAS S.
The objective of this component is to provide short- and medium-term workable solutions to the problem by
helping remedy personnel shortages and meeting the most urgent needs in the area of training and human
resource management. In these areas, the HSSP is drawing on the experiences of the health personnel
training component of the HSMP, in particular the development of teaching tools and implementation of
the DIT with financing from the supplemental credit and that of several other donors.
1.1   In the area of initial training, project support is focused on the accelerated training of ATS
through the DIT which, as stated earlier, is supported by several donors, such as the WHO which provided
conceptual and pedagogical support. The project will also provide specific support for the training of other
paramedical workers (such as registered nurses, registered midwives, and laboratory technicians) through
ENASS. These activities include:
*   Support for the DIT in the form of assistance for the Sarh and Moundou RTCs, which will
enroll a new class of about thirty students every year. At those two centers, the project will
finance activities in the following areas: (i) strengthening of teaching capacities; (ii) support
for organizing and monitoring internships; (iv) provision of teaching materials; and (v)
operation. By the year 2004 it will have contributed in this way to the training of close to 250
new workers.
-   Support for continuation of the initial training of other paramedical personnel. The project
will finance the following activities at ENASS: (i) limited rehabilitation of buildings; (ii)
provision of needed additional equipment; and (iii) support for third year students undertaking
internships (provision of a minibus to transport those assigned to urban destinations and
provision of travel allowances for those assigned to facilities in rural areas).
These actions will supplement the assistance provided by the other donors to help ensure overall financial
coverage of the strategic priorities in the area of initial training, in particular the DIT initiative. For
example, the European Union (8th EDF) will support the N'Djamena and Abeche RTCs, the national DIT
coordination unit, the Training Division ( for the initial training programs for paramedical staff), and the
supervisory committee for the supplementary training cycle for young physicians.  In addition,, the
Cooperation Francaise will make its technical assistance available to the RTC at Moundou, DED
(German Cooperation) plans to provide technical assistance to the Sarh RTC, and WHO will provide
teachers involved in the DIT through South-South exchanges. A large proportion of the scholarships for
DIT students should be able to be financed out of the 8th EDF. The Cooperation Franqaise is also
considering a contribution, possibly as student loans, not as free scholarship. In addition, it would provide
technical assistance to ENASS and to the Moundou RTC. WHO will continue to provide technical
assistance.
1.2   In the area of continuing training, the HSSP will draw on the experiences of the in-service
training programs for paramedical workers implemented over the past few years in the context of the
HSMP. In this area, the project activities include:
*   Support for in-service education programs at the two RTCs (Sarh and Moundou) where the
- 42 -



project is also supporting the pre-service training for health personnel. This simultaneous
focus on both training programs will ensure  improved technical consistency and some
significant economies of scale for financial resources and teaching staff. In practice, the
project will finance activities in the following specific areas: (i) strengthening the teaching
skills of the teams responsible for both pre- and in-service education; (ii) provision of teaching
materials; (iii) implementation of an in-service training strategy with specific terms and
content; and (iv) operation.
0   Support for the Training Division in its design, monitoring, and supervisory functions. This
support will consist of the financing of activities in the following areas: (i) strengthening of
RTC supervision capacities; (ii) harmonization and development of continuing training
programs; (iii) adaptation of teaching manuals and materials to take account of reforms and
developments in the sector; and (iv) training of trainers and initial training of teaching staff.
These activities will complement or reinforce the activities of partners in other prefectures. Their
implementation should be facilitated by the training-related technical assistance to be provided at the
central level within the framework of the 8th EDF.
1.3  In the area of health personnel management the project will support the present MOPH strategy
in this area -- a decentralized process of worker assignment, creating a more balanced distribution of
health personnel. The project will support the Directorate of Human Resources in the following areas:
(i) consultation with the other ministerial departments with a view to giving priority to assignments in
peripheral areas (e.g., dual postings for married couples); (ii) measures supporting the installation of
workers in peripheral areas (e.g., housing, moving allowances); (iii) attention to continuing training as part
of career development; and (iv) skills enhancement for the Directorate's staff. In addition, the project will
rehabilitate the Directorate's old and dilapidated premises and facilities. Lastly, it is planned to build a
meeting room close to the Directorate of Human Resources for the general use of the MOPH.
Project Component 2 - US$25.53 million
2.     Support to district health services in under-served areas
Since the adoption and implementation in 1993 of the National Health Policy, based on the progressive
development of health districts, Chad has made significant advances in terms of health coverage. Almost
70 percent of the population today lives in a Health Area (HA) with an operational health center (i.e., a
center with a minimum of equipment, a regular supply of essential drugs and medical products and at least
one qualified health worker) and around two thirds of all of the country's health facilities are judged
"operational". However, the indicators of accessibility and use of basic health services remain low. For
example, according to the 1996-97 DHS, immunization coverage of infants between 12 and 23 months was
only 11 percent nationally, only 24 percent of births were attended by a qualified health worker, and only I
percent of women living with a male partner used a modern method of contraception. Furthermore, the
quality of services delivered both at the peripheral level (minimum package of activities - MPA) and at the
district level in the first referral hospitals (complementary package of activities - CPA) is very limited.
In providing support for the health services, the HSSP will adopt a double strategy: (i) consolidate and
supplement the actions in support of the health services taking place in Tandjile prefecture within the
framework of the Social Development Action Project (PADS) and the HSMP; and (ii) extend this type of
intervention to the prefectures of Lac, Kanem, and Moyen-Chari. In addition, there is a possibility that
project support include the operationalization of one or two rural districts in the Chari-Baguirmi.
Technical assistance to the prefectural health office (PHO) for the operationalization of the health districts
-43 -



will be provided, on a model similar to that used in the HSMP, by a Technical Support Agency (TSA).
UNICEF will continue to work in Tandjile and other agencies will be recruited on a competitive basis, by a
quality- cost-based selection, to provide technical support in the other prefectures. This approach will
make it possible to capitalize on the lessons learned in HSMP.
2.1    Consolidation of HSMP achievements in Tandjile will be designed to: (i) permit access to basic
health services for the segments of the population which still do not have easy access (distance of the HC or
the lack of practicable roads) although they live in an operational HA; (ii) continue to strengthen the
existing health centers; (iii) make the prefecture's three hospitals fully operational with blood safety and
transfusion capacity; (iv) improve the quality of services delivered at each level of the health pyramid; and
(v) enable the supervisory teams to fully discharge their role within the context of reorganization and
financial reform of the health sector. To do this, the HS SP will intervene at three complementary levels:
*   Reinforcement of the delivery of the minimum package of activities. In this area, the
project will finance the following activities: (i) setting up of a mobile team attached to the
PHO and covering the three districts; this mobile team will be able to deliver minimal services
to the population of some HAs not yet provided with infrastructure and those not reached by
the existing operational health centers; (ii) strengthening of the community-based strategy
(strategie avancee), in particular to improve immunization coverage and to make women more
aware of the importance of health care during pregnancy and delivery; (iii) support for
nutrition related activities; (iv) introduction of standardized protocols for essential activities
(childbirth kits, for example).
*   Reinforcement of the delivery of the complementary package of activities. The project will
finance activities in the following areas:
-      Improved availability of services through:   (i) building of housing to
accommodate midwives at certain district hospitals (and possibly at certain health centers)
to motivate them to move to these areas; (ii) provision to district hospitals of management
funds and of essential drugs and products; (iii) provision of medical technical assistance;
and (iv) the additional provision of medical equipment to district hospitals.
Improved quality of CPA priority actions through: upgrading of personnel skills;
(ii) introduction of standardized protocols for essential activities; (iii) strengthening of
referral and counter-referral procedures (appropriate vehicles and shelters close to the
district hospitals for women in the last weeks of their pregnancy).
-      Improved hospital management through: (i) introduction in the district hospitals
of the functional budgeting system used at the central level both for preparation and
execution; (ii) institution of relevant management procedures within the framework of the
future law making hospitals autonomous; and (iii) putting in place of the particular
administrative entities required for autonomous hospitals (such as the board of directors).
*   Support for the PHO and the three district teams. The project will finance activities in the
following areas:
-      Strengthening of management and supervisory capacities through: (i) additional
training for the PHO teams and the three health district teams; (ii) support for preparation
and implementation of health micro-plans; and (iii) monitoring of supervisory activities.
-      Promotion and monitoring of new procedures for the system's organization and
financing, through: (i) supervision of implementation of contractualization experiments in
-44 -



the area; and (ii) promotion of alternatives to direct cost recovery for improved
risk-sharing, for instance mutual health insurance schemes.
Continuation of the support given to the Lai Prefectural Purchasing Pharmacy
(PPP) through: (i) strengthening of the manager's capacities through additional internships
at the Central Pharmaceutical Purchasing Agency (CPPA).
2.2    Extension of the operationalization of the health districts. The objective of this sub-component
is to operationalize all of the health districts in the prefectures of Lac, Kanem, and Moyen-Chari, and
possibly of one or two rural districts in Chari-Baguirmi, following the process developed during the
implementation of the HSMP. It will intervene at three levels, through:
* Implementation of the MPA. At this level, the project will make the following contributions-
-      Improved operationality of the existing health centers. Because of the shortage
of health workers, it has been decided to improve the operationality of health centers
already having at least one health worker before extending health coverage by building new
facilities in those HA with no health workers. To achieve this, the project will fnance the
rehabilitation of some 40 health centers in the Moyen-Chari and of two hospitals (that of
Bol, Lac prefecture, and that of Sarh, Moyen-Chari prefecture) at the start of the project
(the Agence Franqaise de Developpement (AFD) will rehabilitate HC in the Lac and
Kanem prefectures).
*     Construction of new health centers in priority areas lacking such facilities.
Some 20 health centers will be built during the project's second phase, when more health
workers will have been trained (AFD will finance new construction in the Lac and Kanem
prefectures also in a second phase).
Putting in place of mobile teams. The project will support the creation and
operation of a mobile team in each prefecture (see above Tandjile sub-component 2. 1).
To assist with the implementation of the MPA, the project will finance the following activities: (i)
strengthening of health workers' skills through training in the RTCs; (ii) establishment of health committees
(COSAN) and management committees (COGES); (iii) initial supply of essential drugs and medical
products to health centers; and (iv) reinforcement of the community-based strategy.
*   Implementation of the CPA. The project will finance activities in the following areas:
-      Improved availability of services through: (i) upgrading of six district hospitals;
(ii) building of housing to accommodate midwives at certain district hospitals (and
possibly at certain health centers) to motivate them to move to these areas; (iii) provision
to the district hospitals of operating costs, essential drugs and medical products; and (iv)
provision of medical technical assistance.
-      Improved quality of CPA priority activities through: (i) upgrading of personnel
skills; (ii) introduction of standardized protocols for essential activities; (iii) strengthening
of referral and counter-referral procedures (appropriate vehicles and shelters close to the
district hospitals for women during their last weeks of pregnancy).
-      Improved hospital management through: (i) introduction in the district hospitals
of the functional budgeting used at the central level both for preparation and execution; (ii)
institution of relevant management procedures within the framework of the future law
making hospitals autonomous; and (iii) putting in place of the particular administrative
-45 -



entities required for autonomous hospitals (such as board of directors).
*   Support to the PRO and the district teams. The project will finance activities in the
following areas:
-      Strengthening of management and supervisory capacities through: (i) continuing
training of the PHO teams and the health district teams; (ii) support for preparation and
implementation of the health micro-plans; and (iii) monitoring of supervisory activities.
-      Promotion and monitoring of new procedures for the system's organization and
financing, through the   supervision of implementation of the contractualization
experiments in the area.
To supplement these activities, the project-targeted areas will benefit directly from support incorporated
into other components. This is in particular the case of support provided to the NASHCP, in the areas of
blood safety, and improved treatment of STDs, for example, which will be implemented in project-targeted
areas.
In the Chari-Baguirmi prefecture, the project may support one or two rural districts in the areas of health
worker capacity-building and supervision of health and management activities. In the Kanem and Lac
prefectures, the project will build on the achievements of the EDF projects. As mentioned above, in the
Lac prefecture, AFD will assume responsibility for construction and equipment of a hospital in Ngouri, one
improved health center (a HC with a few hospital beds and a medical doctor) in Liwa, and a few other
health centers. In the Kanem prefecture, AFD will finance the construction and equipment of a hospital in
Nokou, an improved health center at Rig Rig, and about 16 health centers. AFD will also supply initial
stocks of drugs for all these health facilities. In addition, in the Moyen-Chari prefecture, the project will
operationalize the new buildings and rehabilitate facilities recently financed by the African Development
Bank (ADB). In each of the five project-targeted prefectures, the HSSP will finance, according to need,
clinical physicians qualified in both general surgery and obstetrics/gynecology for each hospital. This
technical assistance will be recruited regionally or through the United Nation Volunteer program.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.43 million
3.   Strengthening of health financing and management and support to the decentralization process
Many health sector reforms have taken place over the past few years: organization of the health pyramid
into three levels with a clear definition of the tasks of each one, recognition of the health district as the
kingpin of the health service organization, affirmation of the cost recovery principle, community
participation through progressive establishment of COSAN and COGES etc. These achievements are still
fragile, however, and need to be consolidated. The health system must also take into account the
development  of  administrative  reform  at  the  national  level,  particularly  in  terms  of
deconcentration/decentralization. It is also important to ensure that Chad's health system take into account
the innovations already taking place in other countries in the region, such as the improved risk-sharing
through community participation in health costs and the improved coordination of all partners in
implementation of the National Health Policy.
The objective of this component is to reinforce the capacity of the central level to design and implement the
sector's reform, particularly in the areas of financing and deconcentration/decentralization. This support at
the central level will be translated into grassroots actions in the project-targeted areas. Conversely, lessons
learned and experience gained at the grassroots level will provide information to reflect on and validate
strategies at the central level. The following activities are planned:
-46 -



3.1    Support for development of community participation.  Although the cost recovery principle is
readily accepted in Chad, its development over the past few years has been relatively slow. Today, it is still
far from being widespread, and its development depends largely on support from development partners. To
consolidate this experimental approach, the Government introduced a bill on "community participation in
cost recovery," which passed into law at the parliamentary session in September 1999 and was signed by
the President in December 1999. Consequently, the MOPH now has a legal foundation on which to base
decrees that will provide a clearer definition of community participation in general and community financial
participation in particular.  To initiate this process, the project plans to strengthen the community
participation coordination unit at the DACS to enable it to better perform both its conceptual role at the
central level and its task of supporting the PHOs, which, in turn, will need to pass this concept to the health
workers at the periphery who will have to implement it. Specifically, the project plans to support the
following actions:
Consolidation of achievements at the first level The community participation coordination
unit will undertake to translate the above-mentioned law into implementing decrees developed
through consultation with the PHOs, the central MOPH entities concerned (DACS, Directorate
of Health Facilities (Direction des Etablissements sanitaires), CPPA), and the partners. In
addition, the unit will direct its efforts toward progressive harmonization of cost recovery
practices, with particular emphasis on poverty and the financing of preventive activities.
Increase the use of cost recovery at the second level.  The community participation
coordination unit will first of all undertake to translate the above-mentioned law into
implementing decrees prepared in agreement with the PHO, the central MOPH entities
concerned (DACS, Directorate of Health Institutions, CPPA), and the partners. In addition,
the project will finance a study on the impact of cost recovery in district hospitals.
*      Initiate a process of innovative experiments. To minimize the negative impacts of direct cost
recovery, the project will support the following activities:  (i) identification of existing
experiments with micro-credits and mutual health insurance schemes in Chad; (ii) learning
from the experiences of other countries in the region; (iii) promotion of the mutual insurance
concept through dissemination of information to the stakeholders; and (iv) sensitization of the
PHOs to their roles as providers of information, motivation, monitoring and assistance in this
area.
3.2    Support for deconcentration/decentralization of the health system.  Chad has included
decentralization in its administrative reform process. Decrees 354 and 355 of September 1, 1999, include a
reordering of the country's territorial administration layout. The MOPH has been selected as the pilot
ministry in the decentralization process. The project will assist the ministry in this endeavor by financing
the following activities:
Support for the Directorate General.  The project will:  (i) facilitate intersectoral
coordination in the area of administrative reform, specifically in connection with the to-be
IDA-financed Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (MPEP), which is in
preparation, and with the Civil Service Reform Unit (Cellule de Suivi de la Reforme
administrative publique); (ii) facilitate the preparation of procedures for setting up the
specific entities required for the operation of autonomous hospitals.
Support for the Finance Division. The project will: (i) strengthen the establishment of
- 47 -



decentralized budget systems for the PHO; and (ii) support hospital management reform
by preparing procedures for managing autonomous hospitals and by gradually
implementing those procedures.
3.3    Support to the promotion and experimental use of the contractual approach. Being well aware
of the limits of the welfare state, the MOPH has been engaged in discussions with all of the sector's
stakeholders concerning the development of partnerships. During the past few months, the MOPH has
focused on the contractual approach as an appropriate tool for such partnerships.  A stakeholder
sensitization meeting was held in November 1998. This issue was further discussed as one of the 12
strategic orientations presented at the Health Sector Meeting of March 1999. During the pre-appraisal
mission, the MOPH organized a meeting with the NGOs and other partners to study specific possibilities
for its application at the health district level. The project will support the continuation of this process
through:
Support for the Directorate General in the areas of: (i) information and sensitization,
presently carried out by the Technical Secretariat of the Health Sector Meeting
(dissemination of documentation, international information, organization of seminars for
the PHOs, production of an information booklet, etc.); (ii) supervision of and training in
the use of the contractual approach (preparation of a training module for the RTCs and for
the National School of Administration and Management (Ecole nationale d'
Administration et de Management)); and (iii) legal aspects (preparation of the contract
framework, examination and validation of contracts negotiated).
Support for the Finance Division in: (i) preparation of the financial procedures of the
contracts; and (ii) monitoring and financial supervision of contracts: definition and
application of procedures.
Support to the Coordination, Studies and Monitoring Office for projects and
programs (Bureau de Coordination des Etudes et du Suivi des Projets et des
Programmes), in the areas of: (i) coordination of stakeholders through centralization of
contract registration and contacts with domestic and foreign partners; and (ii) evaluation of
negotiated contracts using a comparative approach.
Given the large number of different MOPH divisions involved in this process and the lack of expertise
concerning contractualization in the MOPH, MOPH requested the technical support of WHO/Geneva to
implement this component.
3.4    Support for public expenditure numagenent. The HSMP project has already strengthened the
capacities of the Finance Division with regard to the preparation and monitoring of the MOPH budget.
Thus the 2000 budget will be presented in its functional format, and the 2003 budget will be prepared and
implemented using the functional nomenclature, at both the central and the decentralized levels. In
addition, the external aid analysis for 1996, 1997 and 1998 was carried out using a comparable process,
thanks to support from WHO and UNDP. Finally, the beneficiary assessment studies, planned for 2002
and 2005, will be designed taking into account that they should provide information for the public
expenditure program.
To consolidate those achievements, the HSSP will support the following activities of the Finance Division:
(i) strengthening of achievements in the area of preparation of the functional and consolidated budgets; (ii)
assist the Finance Division in developing a Public Expenditure Program; (iii) strengthening of capacities for
-48 -



the conduct of the annual public expenditure review; and (iv) development of the ownership of and
integration of the analysis of foreign aid in the consolidated budget. These activities will be carried out in
close collaboration with the concerned authorities and the MPEP.
Project Component 4 - US$8.20 million
4.    Institutional capacity building of the MOPH in specific areas
The HSSP will support the MOPH in the areas of drug supply, health communications, and AID/STD/HIV
control, which each received support from the HSMP and corresponds to one of the 12 strategic
orientations contained in the National Health Policy (see Annex 12). Furthermore, it appears that a lack of
maintenance and upkeep at all levels of the health system is jeopardizing the return on investments in the
sector. For this reason it has been decided to give this problem special attention.
4.1    Support for the national pharmaceutical policy. A needs assessment of the pharmaceutical
sector was carried out during project preparation (July 1999) Attention to these needs was in response to
one of the strategic priorities of the country's National Health Policy, aiming at consolidating the steps
taken by the HSMP to ensure the availability of essential drugs within the framework of the National
Pharmaceutical Policy (NPP) which was adopted in August 1998. The HSMP has helped to: (i) create a
legislative, regulatory, and administrative framework for the pharmaceutical sector consistent with the
objectives and strategies of the NPP; and (ii) put in place an operational and autonomous central
pharmaceutical purchasing agency (CPPA) for the procurement and supply of essential drugs and medical
products for health facilities. This considerable progress has resulted in a marked improvement in essential
drug supply and the management of pharmaceutical activities. Efforts will be continued in this direction in
the HSSP with the technical support of WHO/EDM, with a view to consolidating the achievements in the
implementation of the NPP. The HSSP support in this area will be two-pronged: (i) support to the
Pharmacy Division; and (ii) support to the supply of essential drugs and essential medical products (small
equipment and medical consumables) to the health facilities.
e   Support to the Pharmacy Division (DPH). This consists of institutional support for the
division, designed to: (i) consolidate its organization and procedures by monitoring its
conversion into a directorate and making its activities sustainable by transforming them into
routine technical activities which could be financed by the revenues generated by the drug
registration fees. The Pharmacy Division activities that will be supported are the following:
pharmaceutical regulation, drug registration, review of the national essential drug and product
list, information and updating of the technical documents, and monitoring of the NPP. HSSP
support will consist of providing additional equipment for the division, specific technical
expertise, workshops and sensitization seminars, document publication; (ii) upgrade the skills
of the staff of the division through the provision of technical documrentation, short-term
managementlbudgeting training, study tours, and regular provision of targeted technical
assistance to assist the division in planning and implementing its bi-annual activity plan; (iii)
strengthen the pharmaceutical inspection service by supporting quality control activities,
creating an inspection corps by training some pharmacists (public and private sector) in
inspection techniques, and decentralizing activities in the Tandjile prefecture. HSSP support
will consist of the provision of operating costs, on the job training by an expert, and equipment
and technical support of regional activities; (iv) strengthen cooperation with the private sector
to promote and develop the NPP, step up efforts to eliminate the black market, and examine the
possibility of developing a pricing policy promoting the use of generics. HSSP support will
include: organization of multisectoral consultations, sensitization campaigns (IEC), and a
study of drug prices (with an inter-ministerial committee).
-49 -



*   Support for the supply of essential drugs and products to the health facilities. The
objective of this subcomponent is to ensure the supply and distribution of essential drugs and
medical products by the CPPA and the Prefectural Purchasing Pharmacies (PPP). This support
is additional to that to be provided by the next 8th EDF project of the European Commission.
The CPPA can now live on its own resources, but it does not have adequate capacity to
respond to all needs. It is planned that the HSSP will buy some pharmaceuticals for the CPPA
to increase its stocks and its working capital enabling it to: (i) handle the rapid increase in
demand; and (ii) increase its range of products by introducing reagents and consumables for
use in the laboratory and for transfusion purposes (based on a restricted national list of
essential products). Technical support making it possible to consolidate the team's operations
and provide additional training for the team will be provided within the framework of the 8th
EDF. The HSSP will supplement the support provided to PPP development by the 8th EDF --
namely, technical assistance at the central level and financial support in eight prefectures (the
number of PPP that the 8th EDF project will support is still being negotiated. It is possible
that the 8th EDF project will provide drugs to only 6 prefectures, leaving the PPP of the Lac
and Kanem prefectures to the HSSP). In the HSSP-targeted areas, supplemental technical
support will be provided to strengthen management capacities in the PPP to make them equal
to the challenges presented by cost recovery and by their future status as autonomous entities.
Several preliminary actions and supporting measures were discussed: (i) the amendment of the Pharmacy
Law expected during the preceding project has still not taken place. The absence of an updated law in this
sector is a serious problem, since there is no legal basis for any future actions that may be taken to control
the rampant development of the black market. This issue should therefore be regarded as a condition of
continued support in this sector; (ii) use of the pharmaceutical product registration fees to finance the
activities of the Pharnacy Division (registration, monitoring, inspection) is an important measure
guaranteeing the essential sustainability of activities financed to date by the HSMP.
4.2    Support for the national health communications policy. One of the objectives of the HSMP was
to develop health communication capacities in the MOPH. This objective was reached and the Information,
Education and Communication Division is now functional and provide support to the communication
component of most national programs. It has developed a National Health Communication Strategy which
was approved by the MOPH in late 1998 and which it is now implementing with the support of the project
and of national programs. The HSSP will continue to support the implementation of this strategy and
consolidate the achievements of the HSMP. It will provide support to the IEC Division and finance the
following activities: (i) strengthening the skills of the technical staff of the Division; (ii) qualitative research
which will be used to develop more convincing messages in priority areas (reproductive health/assisted
deliveries, blood safety, maintenance, nutrition); (iii) targeted technical assistance, in particular to carry out
the qualitative studies; (iv) training in health communication techniques of health center personnel (one per
center) and of one IEC agent per district; (v) production of communication support materials for the
national programs which do not have much resources (e.g., malaria program); and (vi) operating costs.
4.3    Support for the national AID/STD/HIV  control strategy.  Implementation of Chad's
AIDS/STD/HIV control policy is currently progressing with substantial assistance from the World Bank
through the Population and AIDS Control Project (PACP). This includes, in addition to support for the
National STD/HIV/AIDS Control Program (NASHCP), a number of actions designed to strengthen the
multisectoral approach to AIDS prevention and to support the mobilization of civil society in that area.
The HSSP project will become involved in this area only at the time of completion of the PACP in June
- 50 -



2001. As of that date, the project will continue, in liaison with UNAIDS, to develop support activities for
the NASHCP that directly concern the health-related aspects of the AIDS pandemic. Furthermore, means
to continue the support for prevention of HIV infection within an intersectoral framework, as presently
provided by the PACP (specifically through a social fund, FOSAP) in combination with actions to
strengthen the social dimension of AIDS and population-related activities, is expected to be continued
through another IDA-financed operation starting in FY02.
The objective of this subcomponent is to provide support to the NASHCP and, more generally, to the
MOPH, in improving its epidemiological surveillance system and in introducing tried and tested health care
practices for limiting the risks of HIV transmission. These include:
*   Enhanced blood safety. In this area, the project will finance the following activities: (i)
support for the Central National transfusion Center which, in addition to its function as
support service for the NRH units, will become an in-service training facility for health
professionals from the district hospitals; (ii) development of a national action plan adapted to
Chad's situation; (iii) strengthening of blood banks and laboratories in district hospitals located
in the project-targeted areas; (iv) training of health personnel in safe transfusion practices; and
(v) sensitization of potential blood donors by the IEC Division.
*   Improved STD treatment and control. In this area, the project will finance the following
activities: (i) introduction of standard treatments that conform to the national protocols and
that can be packaged by the CPPA in the form of kits; (ii) training of health personnel in the
use of those kits; and (iii) sensitization of health personnel and of the population to this new
treatment approach.
*   Reduction of risks of clinical infection. In this area, the project will finance the following
activities: (i) provision of non-reusable, self-blocking syringes for the expanded program of
inoculation in the project-targeted areas and availability of non-reusable, self-blocking syringes
for therapeutic injections at the CPPA; (ii) delivery to health facilities in the project area of
hospital waste collection and processing equipment; (iii) sensitization and training of health
personnel in the use of these new items.
In addition to preventing HIV infection, it is clear that these interventions will help improve the quality of
care at the levels of the MPA and the CPA. Thus, the mobilizing effect of the AIDS/STD/HIV control
program will serve to strengthen all health services.
Support for epidemiological surveillance activities will include: (i) support for operation of the nine
sentinel sites; (ii) supplementary surveys as needed; and (iii) support to routine dissemination of
epidemiological information.
4.4    Support for a maintenance strategy. The objective of this strategy is to prolong the life of the
infrastructure and other MOPH investments. To that end, the HSSP will finance a number of activities
designed to develop, apply, and disseminate a strategy for preventive and curative maintenance applicable
to all of the ministry's assets. It is recognized that it takes a long lime to change a culture and that good
maintenance practices may not be achieved by the end of the project. Nonetheless lack of maintenance is a
serious problem, and it is hoped that in providing means to carry out maintenance activities, new practices
will be stimulated. In addition, the Government has indicated its intention to establish a maintenance
strategy in its Sector Policy Letter. The activities for this subcomponent will include: (i) studies defining
strategies for each type of investment (infrastructure, buildings, furniture, general equipment, biomedical
- 51 -



equipment, and vehicles); (ii) preparation, printing, and dissemination of maintenance guidelines; (iii) IEC
activities to sensitize health personnel and disseminate guidelines covering the strategy adopted; (iv)
training of persons to manage the maintenance contracts; and (v) training of technicians to maintain the
biomedical equipment.
Project Component 5 - US$1.88 million
5.    National surveys
The objective of this component is to assist the Government in collecting socio-demographic, health and
nutrition data to improve the ability of the. GOC to evaluate and monitor progress in the health, nutrition
and population sectors. More specifically, the project will assist in elaborating and conducting an HNP
survey in 2002 and will contribute some funds to the Census in 2003.
5.1    HNP Survey. The HNP survey will be designed to provide data comparable to the Demographic
and Health Survey carried out in 1996-97 by the CBC. In developing the various health and nutrition
modules of the survey, the CBC will work closely with the MOPH to ensure that the concerns of the
MOPH are taken into account. The project will finance: (i) field work; (ii) some technical assistance to the
Central Bureau of Census for the design and planning of the survey, as well as with the survey sample
itself, and for the analysis of the data; the MOPH will collaborate in the development of questionnaires and
surveys; (iii) local consultants; (iv) publication of the report; and (v) in-depth analysis of the data on
special topics such as nutrition, health services availability, and AIDS prevention behaviors. The CBC will
prepare a work plan and budget, acceptable to IDA, as a condition of initial deposit of the Special
Account II, which will be managed by the Economic Unit of the Ministry of Economic Promotion,
Development and Cooperation.
5.2    Contribution to the Census. It has not yet been determined how the project will contribute to
Census activities, as the Census is still at an early planning stage. A detailed proposal will be submitted to
IDA for review prior to any funds being released to finance Census activities.
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Local       Foreign        Tot
-Project Cost-By Component               US  $million   us $riflion   us $mNkrn
Support Human Resources Development                        0.99         1.59          2.58
I Stengthening District Health Services in Underserved Areas  7.13     13.23         20.36
Strengthening Health Financing and Supporting decentralization  0.25    0.89          1.14
Process
Institutional Capacity Building of MOPH for Specific Areas  2.13        4.72          6.85
National Surveys                                           0.77          0.72         1.49
Project Management and Coordination                        0.60          1.26         1.86
Total Baseline Cost                                       11.87        22.41         34.28
Physical Contingencies                                    0.92          1.86         2.78
Price Contingencies                                       1.98         3.61          5.59
Total Project Costs              14.77        27.88         42.65
Total Financing Required              14.77         27.88        42.65
Local       Foreign        Thtad
=!o=ce Cost 'By Categoy                 US :$milion   US $milion    US $million
Works                                                        4.75          8.82         13.57
Pharmaceuticals                                             0.00           3.36         3.36
Goods (other than pharmaceuticals and training materials)   0.89           6.91         7.80
Studies                                                     2.35           0.26         2.61
Consultants' Services                                        1.11          4.43         5.54
Training and training Materials                              0.91          2.05          2.96
Incremental Costs                                           4.76           2.04         6.80
Total Project Costs     14.77         27.87        42.64
Total Financing Required     14.77          27.87        42.64
- 53 -



Annex 4
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Economic Analysis
I.    Introduction
An economic analysis of the Health Sector Support Project (HSSP) in Chad, and of its context, was
performed in the course of project preparation. The purpose of this Annex is to provide the economic
rationale for the Project; it will cover the following points: (i) the economic and social context; (ii) health
sector expenditures: current status and projected trends in national resources for the health sector; and (iii)
support provided by the HSSP: economic and managerial analysis and economic and financial risks.
1. Chad's national health policy has as its main objective that of "insuring the population's access to
high-quality basic service". Twelve strategic themes have been identified and should make it possible to
remove obstacles and bottlenecks affecting the current health system. This Project subscribes to this
objective as its own and provides financial support to most of the strategic themes chosen.
2. This economic analysis is based on the following main documents: national health policy documents
presented at the March 1999 sectoral meeting on health, namely "National Health Policy" and "Action
Plan: Volumes I and II," "External Aid to the Health Sector, 1996-1997," the Country Assistance
Strategy" (World Bank, May 28, 1999).
II.    Economic and social context
3. Recent performance. The macroeconomic results of the last few years are encouraging. The country's
economic growth rate has improved and should stand at 5.5% in 2000 and 2001, according to CAS
estimates, which is considerably higher than that of the population growth (natural rate of increase: 2.5%).
Inflation, which was high after the devaluation of the CFAF in 1994, is now around 3% (source: CAS).
Although per capita GDP has increased over the past few years, it is only US$230 (source: CAS) and
continues to be one of the world's lowest. In a 1999 report, the UNDP human development index ranked
Chad 162nd out of 174 countries while its human poverty index placed Chad 86th out of 92 countries
classified in 1999. Moreover, Chad is listed among the Least Developed Countries (LDCs).
4. Although the economy is heading in the right direction, the country's development remains fragile.
First, the economy still relies heavily on the rural sector, which must deal with severe climatic fluctuations.
In addition, the country itself is very vast and travel and transportation can be improved only very
gradually. Capital costs are higher than elsewhere and project monitoring is more complex.
5. Compared to other countries in the region, Chad does not have an excessively large external debt,
although debt service still takes up about 20% of government revenues (source: CAS).
6. On the other hand, the development of oil resources provide a real opportunity for Chad in the years
ahead. Beginning 2004, the country should be able to count on income from oil (source: CAS, Annex C).
Estimates (source: CAS, Annex C) based on various per-barrel prices show that income could range from
US$40 million per year, in the worst case scenario, up to US$270 million in the best case scenario.
Assuming there is a moderate case scenario of US$80 million per year, oil income would be equivalent to
about 50% of today's fiscal revenues, or 50% of the current volume of external aid. Under this
- 54 -



assumption, the current per capita income( $230 would double in 17 years whereas without the oil
resources, it would take 35 years to double.
7.    In January 1999, Chad's Parliament adopted a law on the management of oil resources. In
addition to measures ensuring the transparency of oil revenues, the plan (source: CAS, Box 2) is to allocate
about 72% of those revenues to five priority sectors (education, health and social services, rural
development, infrastructures, environment and water). These sectors should therefore have the resources
they need to expand their efforts considerably.
8.     Links to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The various support programs of the IMF and
World Bank have enabled Chad to make definite economic progress in recent years: fiscal revenues have
increased, relationships with external creditors have stabilized, military expenditures have dropped
substantially, numerous public enterprises have been privatized, etc. Over the next few years, the CAS
aims to help Chad prepare in advance for the oil boom which will have a significant impact on development
only if it is well managed and judiciously utilized. The general strategy rests upon the need to improve the
quality and efficacy of public institutions. The CAS will focus its efforts on four sectors: health,
education, transportation and rural development.
9.     The HSSP is part of this strategy: it is designed as an intermediate Project intended to strengthen
the administrative and management capacities of the Ministry of Public Health in the health sector. It
adopts a sectoral approach based on the National Health Policy presented at the March 1999 sectoral
meeting on health. The Project aims to set up institutions that will make it possible to manage the sector
appropriately, coordinate donor participation and improve outreach capabilities on the part of national
authorities.
10.    The project aims to intensify the fight against poverty, which is one of the CAS's action areas,
although it does not make a strategic theme of it: (i) the project areas correspond to zones where the
population is particularly poor and where efforts by other donors have been least intense; (ii) the
population's involvement will be increased and equitable mechanisms to have the population contribute
financially to health expenditures will be gradually put into place.
11.    Support to the public sector. Although the HSSP relies upon the public sector to improve the
health of the Chadian population, it also aims at greater involvement of all participants in the society:
The Project will encourage better coordination between the Ministry of Public Health and those
involved in "deconcentration" and decentralization efforts; as laws are adopted and enforcement
decrees signed, the Project will help the Ministry of Public Health to take the next logical steps,
especially concerning administrative reform and the territorial boundary-laying that will be
gradually put in place;
The Project aims to help the Ministry of Public Health to set up autonomous health services, for
example, district hospitals capable of developing policies and strategies in response to the
population's real needs;
The Project aims to help the Ministry of Public Health to better involve the private sector, and
especially the nonprofit private sector, in providing health services. This theme, which occupies an
important place in the National Health Policy, will find its operational expression in the
development of a partnership based on a contractual approach that would make it possible to link
existing private participants together or to entrust the management of public health services to
- 55-



private actors (NGOs in particular.)
Thus, the Project aims to assist the Ministry of Public Health in its role of regulating the health
system, in preference to its traditional role of providing health services.
III.   Health sector expenditures
12.    This portion of the economic analysis presents the status of health sector expenditures and shows
how the HSSP fits into the picture.
A.    Health sector expenditures: analysis of the current situation
A. 1.   Government expenditures
13.   In the health sector, the Govermnent of Chad finances mainly staff and operating costs: these two
categories are grouped under the "Operating Budget"" Given its limited means, the Government does not
cover any investment expenditure, with the exception of counterpart funding of certain projects. The
following table shows the evolution of MPOH "operating budget""
Evolution of the operating budget
(Staff and operations)
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000*
Expenditures                3.206    3.259    3.761    4.216    4.436    5.282    6.450    7.738
(in CFAF '000s)
In CFAF per capita            510      506      570      623     640      743      885    1.035
As % of state budget         7,7%        -    6,1%     5,8%     6,1%     6,4%     7,4%   8,1%
* Including the budget of the National reference Hospital located in N'Djamena which is in line item entitled transfers"
because of its management and financial autonomy.
It should be pointed out that in Chad, as in most countries, the government budget for staff costs is
practically fully implemented; since operating costs are financed by the European Union, the problem of
availability linked to fiscal revenues does not arise; in fact, capital investments in the Government budget
are minute. The share of health expenditures in the Government's operating budget has increased quite
substantially over the last few years (1994 being the exception since that year's budget was voted upon
prior to the CFAF devaluation and therefore does not take budget amendments into account.). Over the
period, the Government's efforts in the health sector averaged slightly over 6%. The Government budget
over the last three years has grown by about 20% annually which effectively illustrates the Govermnent's
desire to increase social service expenditures. Per capita expenditures in the year 2000 will reach CFAF
1,035, or US$1.70. The budget of the MOPH represented a little over 6% of Government budget in 1995
and 1998 and will account for 8.1% in 2000.
14.    The following table shows the trend of personnel expenditures within the budget of the Ministry of
- 56 -



Public Health.
Trend in personnel expenditures
within the budget of the Ministry of Public Health
in CFCFA million
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999      2000
Expenditures     2.251      2.059     2.063      2.163      2.301      2.214      2.181      2.652
(in CFAF
OOOs)
In CFAF per       358        320        313        320        332       311        307        355
capita
As % of state    70%        63%        55%        51%        52%        42%        37%        38%
budget      III                                        IIIII
Personnel expenditures remained stable over the period because promotions were frozen, there were no
salary raises and the number of staff decreased owing to the non-replacement of departing staff. One
should note, however, the substantial increase (+20%) over the last few years, which demonstrates
Government's desire to increase recruitment of medical and paramedical staff by integrating new graduates
of the basic training system (ENASS and School of Medicine) into the civil service.
15.    The following table shows the trend in operating costs within the MPOH's budget:
Evolution of operating costs
within the budget of the Ministry of Public Health
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999      2000
Expenditures            956    1.200    1.688    2.053    2.135    3.069      3.687    4.363
(in CFAF 'OOOs)
In CFAF per capita      148       191     255       303      308      432       512      584
As % of state budget    30%      37%      45%      49%      48%      58%      62,5%     62%
Operating expenditures have increased greatly in recent years. Since 1994, operating costs have indeed
often been covered entirely by the European Union. This trend enables the health system to carry out its
activities more effectively, but in absolute terms, annual per capita spending remains modest: CFAF 584,
or less than one dollar per inhabitant.
16.    The following graph clearly illustrates that the increase (in current terms) of the Government's
health budget is almost entirely attributable to the increase in operating expenditures. In 1998, operating
costs exceeded personnel costs for the first time. Compared to other countries in the region, Chad is
characterized by a rather peculiar budgetary breakdown: the Government indicates its willingness to
improve service quality by taking on an increasing share of operating expenditures.
- 57 -



Evolution of the Health Budget
8000-
7000-
6000-
*5000 -Total
Staff
4000 --- --- Operations
0
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
A. 2.   Expenditures financed by e-xternal aid
17.    External aid finances a very large portion of health expenditures. Nearly 80% of all public
expenditures is in this category. Except for one year, this ratio has been remarkably constant.
Evolution of external aid for health
(in billions of current CFAF)
1990     1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998
External aid            5,5       6,5      8,9       3,2     11,6      12,0     12,7      15,2     12,1
MPH budget               1,5      2,2       2,3      3,2      3,2       3,        4,2      4,4      5,3
Aid/(Aid  +  MPH       79%       75%      79%       50%      78%       76%      75%       77%      69%
budget)
Extemnal aid decreased considerably (approximately 20%) between 1997 and 1998. This may be explained
by the withdrawal of mainland China's Technical Assistance and the completion of the ADB and World
Bank health centers' construction and rehabilitation programs.
In 1998, the per capita health expenditure of external donors amounted to about CFAF 1,713, or US$2.85,
while that of the MPH amounted to CFAF 744, or US$1.25. On average, external aid represents about
70% of public health expenditures.
A comprehensive survey of Chad's development partners conducted for each of the years 1996, 1997 and
-58 -



1998--in this paragraph, direct assistance to the budget is not included, only external aid to projects. Also,
"External assistance in the health sector: 1996," "External Assistance in the health sector: 1997," "External
Assistance in the health sector: 1998, 1996-1998 in retrospect," Ministry of Public Health, provided more
in-depth knowledge:
*   In 1996, 71 % of aid consisted of grants and 29% of loans; in 1997, the proportion was 59% to 41 %
and in 1998, 61% to 39% respectively.
*   In 1996, 56% of this aid was used to cover operating expenses while 44% was devoted to capital
costs; in 1997 those figures changed to 69% and 31, and in 1998 to 49% and 51 % respectively.
Repartition in 1998
Construct.            Int. Pers.
20%                  18%
Nat. Pers.
Equipem.                          13%
9%
Fellowships
Drugs.& vacc.
10%                 Goods $ serv.
29%
*   The breakdown, by purpose of expenditure, is as follows:
- 21% goes to the central level, 12% to the intermediate level, 35% to the district level and 27% to the
health centers;
- there are large differences between Prefectures.
*   Long and short-term international technical assistance accounted for 28% of all external aid in 1996,
26% in 1997 and 18% in 1998.
18.   In brief, external aid for the last three years (1996, 1997, 1998), amounted to CFAF 39 billion,
representing about 60% of Chad's overall health expenditures Loans account for 38% and grants 62%.
Expenditures for construction/rehabilitation and international staff account for nearly of the aid.
Expenditures for local staff are quite considerable, amounting to nearly half of the MPH budget. The
operating costs amount to 54% of the volume of external aid (allocated mostly to the central level) as
against 46% for capital investments (going mainly to the intermediate levels). Per capita aid in the
Prefecture that receives the most aid is six times higher than in the Prefecture that receives the least. Four
major donors alone (World Bank, ADB, EU and France) contribute 64% of the volume of aid.
- 59 -



19.   Contrary to several countries in the region, the question of Chad's capacity to absorb such aid has
never been raised or discussed within the MPH or among the partners in development. For instance, this
theme was never broached during the last 1999 Roundtable on the health sector.
A.3.   The contribution of the population
20.    From  1989 to the present, the population's contribution to the financing of health care has
progressed considerably, especially at the bottom level of the health care pyramid. Two types of fee
structure predominate: fixed-rate payment per episode of illness, and fee for service plus medicines. Within
these two categories, there are variations both in fees and in the type of item resulting in coverage. The
way in which receipts are used likewise varies quite considerably: some aim for recovery of all costs,
including salaries, whereas others aim to ensure the replenishment of medicines and a portion of current
operating expenditures.
21.    The financial result of cost recovery is more or less unknown: it is very roughly estimated today
that the product of cost recovery amounts to about CFAF I billion, or about CFAF 150 per year and per
inhabitant. Despite these low amounts, it is undeniable that the financial contribution of the population has
been a key element in the revitalization of health services: health centers that practice cost recovery now
have medicines and are able to replenish their supplies regularly from the Centrale d'achats des
medicaments or CPA (the central drug purchase depot). In addition, the income that they generate enables
them to cover small current operating costs.
22.   In practically all cases, Health and Management Committees are used as entities to represent the
population. The Health Committee (Comite de Sante, or COSAN) is a population grouping from the
health center's zone of responsibility; the Management Committee (Comite de Gestion, or COGES) is the
implementing agency of the COSAN. The COGES, along with the manager of the health center,
coordinates the center's expenditures. However, the law concerning community contributions to health
costs still remains to be adopted by the Chadian parliament.
23.   At the second level of the health pyramid, implementation of cost recovery has only been possible
since 1994, when a ministerial decree authorized such recovery. The goals of cost recovery at the level of
hospitals vary from one project to another. In most cases, cost recovery aims to ensure coverage of a
portion (around 20% - 30%) of the cost of drugs and of current operations. Chad currently has few figures
available on the financial product of costs recovery at this level: these estimates indicate about CFAF 508
(?check figure in original) million.
24.    At present, there is no experience in risk sharing and/or prepayment; the population, therefore,
must meet expenses as and when they are incurred with the obvious consequences for the most
disadvantaged. Furthermore, there are actually no mechanisms to give consideration to the poor; in so
many regions of Chad, the entire population is poor so that the notion of special considerations for the poor
makes no sense. Health facilities prefer to act on prices of essential drugs in order to make them as
affordable as possible for the entire population.
25.     Health expenditures for 1997 (aside from expenditures by the private sector) can be summed up
as follows:
-60 -



Expenditures    Expenditure per
(in millions of      capita       Percentage
CFAF)          (in CFAF)
Govermnent expenses                                    4.436             640            20,9%
External aids       Total                             15.266            2.202           72,0%
For operating expenditures        10.522           1.518
For investment                    4.743              684
Cost recovery                                          1.500             216             7,1%
TOTAL                                                 21.202            3.058          100,0%
From data contained in the preceding table, one may conclude that:
*    external aid covers nearly 3/4 of public health expenditures, and the Government about 1/5, while the
population contributes about 7%;
*    public health expenditures total about $5 per capita.
B. Outlook for national resources in the health sector
a) Budget of the MPH
26.     Taking into account the new development of oil operations over the next few years, the
Government has developed a strategy whose sole objective is poverty alleviation. In the context of this
strategy, three priorities have been established:
*    food security and sustainable human resource development;
*    higher incomes and the promotion of productive activities;
*    strengthening of development infrastructures.
Sustainable human resource development thus constitutes a central theme in poverty reduction since it aims
to enhance the whole population's access to such basic social services as education, training, health and
hygiene.
27.   In this connection, the Economic Policy Statement states that operating funds, exclusive of MPH
personnel, will increase by 30% each year until 2000. Funds voted in 1998 are also subject to a 44%
increase. Under the year 2000 budget, the increase is 20% for staff salaries as well as for current operating
expenses.
28.   In accordance with these general policies, the MPH will enjoy a substantial increase in its financial
resources. According to some MPH estimates, the economic growth resulting from oil the MPH budget to
triple or quadruple over the next ten years.
29.    In a few years, the MPH budget will evolve according to the following guidelines:
*    continued effort to cover operating expenditures:
The share of operating expenditures in the MPH budget, which was 58% in 1998, will reach 62% in
2000. This percentage should eventually stabilize at around 65%. With such a funding distribution,
the MPH will have the financial means to provide for improved functioning of health activities.
- 61 -



*    continued recruitment of medical andparamedical staff:
Over the last few years, the MPH has made great efforts to improve health service coverage:
numerous health centers and hospitals have been built and refurbished. The MPH is committed to
pursuing this coverage. However, it does not have enough qualified staff to operate these health
facilities under good conditions.
In order to handle this situation, the MPH must be able to continue the efforts begun over the last few
years to recruit health personnel. Over the next few years, it is expected that, each year, 150
paramedics will graduate from the "Initial Decentralized Training" (Formation Initiale
Decentralis&e, or FID) system and that 30 physicians will graduate from the School of Medicine.
Not all of them will join the civil service and they will also be replacing departing civil service staff.
The financial impact of this high priority measure means a budget increase of about CFAF 200
million, or an annual increase of personnel costs of less than 10%.
*    involvement in the investment effort:
Given its limited financial means, the Ministry of Public Health has not contributed to investment
efforts in the sector over the past few years. Donors and NGOs have been the only ones contributing
to the health sector's development.
In the coming years, and as budgetary allocations increase, the MPH intends to involve itself
increasingly in investments. Its financial resources will obviously not suffice, especially in the initial
years, to take on large civil works investments. But the MPH intends to assume responsibility for
certain specific activities in such areas as training, studies, etc.
b) The population's contribution
30.    If economic growth projections play out as expected, households will see their purchasing power
improve. However, macroeconomic aggregates indicate that the benefits of growth will not be distributed
first of all to households (since the noncommercial "household" GDP increases more slowly than total
GDP.)
*    The population's capacity to finance its health care will increase gradually, and this will mean that:
*    the economic growth expected over the next decade will probably result in an increase in private
expenditures at health facilities, which may become more numerous, and in expenditures for
medicines from private pharmacies;
*    public or nonprofit health facilities will be confronted with a population that has greater financial
resources at its disposal.
Faced with this trend, the Ministry of Public Health is adopting the following positions:
*    As private for-profit structures develop in response to a new clientele, the MPH will seek ways to
involve them in the implementation of national health policy, particularly by developing the
appropriate contractual tools;
-62 -



*    The MPH will boost the population's contribution to the financing of peripheral facilities such as the
health centers. It will be important to ensure that the entire population of the country contributes to
the financing of the health centers;
*    Over time, the MPH will require the population to help finance hospitals, and particularly district
hospitals. In order to improve the functioning of these facilities, the population will need to gradually
assume a portion of their operating expenses.
31.    However, even if economic growth improves the population's financial capacities, the MPH is
aware that the population's resources will remain limited for a long time to come, and that it will be
important to ensure that financial participation by the population is not achieved at the expense of equal
access. In order to mitigate these risks, the MPH will take the following measures:
*    Harmonization of cost recovera systems: in order to avoid excessively large differences between the
various systems existing in the country, the MPH will take measures to harmonize their practices. At
the national level, the principle to be followed is that of harmonization rather than uniformity, in
order to give regions the flexibility they need to adapt to their environment. At the district level, on
the other hand, uniformity will be the rule;
-    Testing of risk-sharing systems: direct cost-recovery systems have the great disadvantage of
distributing risk unevenly within the population and of failing to motivate the populace to make
provisions for their health expenses. In order to remedy these drawbacks, the MPH will encourage
the progressive and experimental development of pre-payment systems.  Along the lines of
experiments being conducted in many African countries, Chad will, over the next few years, facilitate
the emergence of health insurance companies (mutuelles de sante').
-    Search for solutions to the problem of indigence: neither economic growth nor the establishment of
pre-payment systems will resolve the problem of the indigence of a portion of the population. Along
with those responsible for the petroleum portfolio, the MPH is studying the options for allocating a
portion of future petroleum receipts to a "special solidarity fund" which would be managed by local
collectivities in the context of decentralization.
c) External aid for the health sector
32.    Faced with the Government's inability to finance current expenditures, donors have in past years
been obliged to take over those operating costs. Nearly half of the external aid (69% in 1997 and 49% in
1998) was used to finance operating expenditures, common and current costs. Although the economic
situation is expected to improve considerably in the coming years, the new revenues that the Govermnent
will have will first be utilized to enable it to cover expenses for which it should be responsible, i.e., salaries
and current operating expenditures. As a result, the need for budget support will be reduced by a
comparable amount. However, classic external aid will still be needed to finance development costs, i.e.,
not only investments in the strict sense but also specific activities. On the other hand, the MPH will
gradually be able to take on current operating expenditures thus far financed through external aid.
III. Support from the HSSP
33.    The support of the HSSP can be regarded from the economic and managerial standpoints. The
-63 -



economic analysis deals with issues of sustainability and accessibility, cost/benefit analysis, environmental
impact and AIDS/STD prevention in connection with project activities. The managerial analysis is
concerned with the strengthening of the MPH's managerial capacities. However, as data are lacking in
Chad, the analysis cannot be done in depth.
A. Economic analysis
34.    Sustainability and accessibility. The Project will support the expansion of cost recovery: (i)
Within the Project's geographic zones, cost recovery will be developed in accordance with the system set
up under the preceding HSMP Project. Particular attention will be paid to cost recovery at district
hospitals. (ii) At the central level, the Project will contribute to the harmonization of cost recovery
practices, with particular emphasis upon the issue of indigence and the coverage of preventive activities.
The Project will help the Ministry of Public Health to coordinate donor support by identifying practices
that are acceptable to all. In addition, in order to mitigate the negative impacts of direct cost recovery, the
Project will promote a health insurance entity (Mutualite Sante) based on past experiences with
micro-credit and with revenue-generating activities, especially those geared to women. The Project will
facilitate the sharing of experiences in this area with countries in the region that are already on this track.
35.    Cost-benefit analysis. Activities supported by the Project have been chosen on the basis of their
favorable cost/effectiveness ratio. In the absence of data specific to Chad, project preparation relied on
studies already performed in developing countries, which are summarized in the 1993 World Development
Report and in "Better Health in Africa.
- 64 -



Table 7: Cost-effectiveness of health interventions and their coherence with "Better
Health in Africa" and the 1993 WDR
Cost of      $ per life   BHA      WDR93         Targeted
Project component                component in   year saved   package   package    population as a
US$ million                and/or              proportion of total
priority             population (%)
1. Development of primary health services to deliver               -          Y         Y             100
an essential package of health care                                                               (children and
Child immunizations                                              12-17                          pregnant women >
Pre- and post-natal care                                         30-50                                50)
Assisted delivery                                                 100
Diarrhea                                                          5-8
Respiratory infections                                           3-130
2. Infectious disease control:                                                Y          Y             gO
Malaria                                                           8-25
Impregnated net-beds                                              43
Schistosomiasis
Tuberculosis                                                      3-5
Plague
3. Reproductive health                                           35-50        Y          Y             60
Family planning                                                  20-30
HIV-AIDS nrevention                                               5-12
STD                                                             1-3/60-63
4. Nutrition                                                     15-20
Rehabilitation of severe malnourished children                   40-50        Y          Y             2
5. Institutional strengthening:                                               Y         Y
Human resources management                                                    Y          Y
Improved budget and planning performance                                      Y          Y
Develop a health information system                                           Y          Y
Develop regulation and incentives for private sector                         N/A        N/A
36.    The Project will support the implementation of the Minimum Package of Activities (MPA) at the
level of the health centers and of the Complementary Package of Activities (CPA) at the level of the district
hospital. The Project will emphasize improved vaccination coverage as well as the monitoring of
pregnancies and births, which are the main hazards for infant and maternal mortality in Chad. Many
studies have already clearly demonstrated the importance of these two elements for economic development
at present (since women play a fundamental role in the Chadian economy) and in the future (since healthy
children derive maximum benefits from schooling and will become tomorrow's productive workers.)
37.    Reducing the risk of hospital-contracted infectiolL   The Project will finance two type of
activities in this area:
provision of non-reusable injection equipment. Injections performed in poor hygienic conditions are
linked to high rates of morbidity and mortality, which are attributable in particular to the viruses
associated with hepatitis B and C and HIV. It is estimated that current vaccination practices may be
responsible each year for over 1.3 million deaths worldwide, involving costs of about US$535
million. ("The cost of unsafe injections," M.A. Miller and E. Pisani, in The International Journal of Public
Health, Bulletin of the WHO, Volume 77, Number 10, 1999.) The WHO recommends safer injection
methods, including the use of self-blocking syringes. The price is obviously higher: a self-blocking
syringe costs twice as much as a disposable one. A UNICEF study carried out in Chad revealed that
the total cost of consumable PEV supplies per 10,000 inhabitants comes to US$281,342 with the
strategy of multiple-use syringes, and to US$381,065 - a 35% premium -- if non-reusable syringes
are used. This extra expense seems reasonable considering the anticipated benefits, i.e., a lowered
- 65 -



rate of disease transmission as well as better acceptance of vaccination by the population.
provision of medical waste collection and treatment equipment to health care facilities in the Project
area. The estimated cost of doing this under the Project amounts to US$250,000, or 0.6% of the
Project cost. The anticipated benefits include a reduction in the risk of infections contracted at health
care facilities, as well as environmental benefits.
B. ManagerialAnalysis
38.    One of the Project's main themes has to do with strengthening the managerial capacities of the
Ministry of Public Health. The Project aims to help the MPH to focus on its essential functions of
regulation and administration within the health care system, and to withdraw progressively from the direct
provision of health care services. This theme, which is new not only to the health sector but also to
Chadian society in general, is part of a movement towards public sector reform, which is also a major
theme of the CAS. The Project will help the MPH to develop constructive partnerships with participants in
the health sector.
39.   Financial Analysis. The Project will continue MPH capacity building especially its Financial
Resources Division, so that it may be provided with better decision-making tools. Emphasis will be placed
on the establishment of an effective functional and decentralized budget system for both budget preparation
and implementation. This practical system which is already being used for external aid analysis should
also prove effective for the MPH's own resources.
40.   Decentralization. Chad has put decentralization on its administrative reform agenda. Decrees
Nos. 354 and 355 dated September 1, 1999 make substantial changes in territorial boundaries. In addition,
the Ministry of Public Health has been designated a "pilot" ministry as regards the issue of
decentralization. The Project will help the MPH to develop solid relationships with the decentralized
authorities, particularly by drawing up development plans for the health care districts.
41.   Autonomy of hospitals. The adoption of the upcoming law on the establishment of public
hospitals will cause district hospitals to become full-fledged partners within the Ministry of Public Health.
The Project will help the MPH to set up all aspects of this reform, including the development and
installation of management procedures for autonomous hospitals, and the negotiation of collective
agreements with these hospitals.
42.    The contractual approach. Since it is aware of the limitations of the welfare state, the Ministry
of Public Health has initiated, along with all participants in the sector, a process of reflection aimed at
developing a partnership based on a contractual approach. The Project will support the promotion and
testing of the contractual approach in the project zone and will, in collaboration with other donors, help the
central authorities to implement this strategy. The financial management of contractual arrangements will
require specific monitoring by the Finance Division. The implementation of this strategy will occur without
any disengagement on the part of the Government: during negotiations with partners who will be managing
government services, subsidies for setting up activities and for the assignment of public sector staff will be
considered with the same attention as will those for services remaining under the direct purview of the
Ministry of Public Health.
43.    Contribution by the population. The Project will help strengthen the partnership with the
population. Thus, COSANs will continue to be created in order to ensure the participation of the
-66 -



population within health structures themselves.  The progressive development of health insurance
companies will place the population's contribution to health care outside the health care facilities. Aside
from the financing they will bring to health care facilities, health insurance companies will play a role of
counterweight, which will be established by means of contractual arrangements with health care facilities.
44.   In summary, the Project aims to bring about a veritable cultural shift in the area of management.
After having been the main provider of health services, the Ministry of Public Health will need to get ready
to play a regulatory and administrative role. At the central level, the Project will help develop the central
authorities' capacity to guide managerial reforms, in synergy with all relevant participants in the health
sector. Thus, by influencing modes of operation and management, the Project will help to improve the
quality of health services and to involve more fully all those implicated in health care. Thanks to these
partnerships, the Project will help construct a sustainable and accessible health system for all Chadians. -
C.    Economic andfinancial risks
45.    Chad is now at a turning point in its history. From being a very poor country, recently shaken by
major political crises, Chad can now hope for better days due to the upcoming arrival of petroleum
revenues. However, experience also shows that poor management of oil revenues can be catastrophic from
the economic as well as political standpoints. These petroleum receipts are not expected until 2004; Chad
has until then to prepare itself to management them properly.
46.    The Project will have certain financial impacts upon the government budget over the next few
years: as mentioned above, the development of human resources, although a sine qua non condition of
improving health care, will have an impact on personnel costs within the budget of the Ministry of Public
Health. The improvement of service quality through such measures as increasing the safety of blood
transfusions and reducing the rate of hospital-contracted disease are the most salient elements of this.
47.    These financial efforts, which are likely to make a substantial improvement in the previously poor
service quality responsible for the sector's poor performance -- i.e., the high rates of mortality and
morbidity among women and children -- remain modest in comparison to the financial possibilities that
petroleum income could bring. The Project should therefore be perceived as a transitional Project laying
the groundwork for a future era in which financial constraints will be less severe.
48.    Obviously, the main risk of this project, as well as of all the activities planned under the CAS, has
to do with the hope placed in these oil receipts. The petroleum era, in the area of health, will have a
two-fold impact: (i) petroleum activities will progressively expand economic activity and, thus, the income
of the population, allowing them to contribute more to the financing of health care, and (ii) petroleum
income, as the Government has promised, should considerably augment the budget of the Ministry of
Public Health. If this "petroleum era" were to fail to materialize, for whatever internal or external reasons,
some of the Project's relevance would be called into question.
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Years Ending
December 31
rN~~~~~I
Year1 I   Year2  I Year3  I Year4         Year5      Year6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.3        8.2       12.2       10.3        3.9        1.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        1.4        1.7       1.7        1.1        0.6 -     0.0
Total Project Costs          0.5        9.6       13.9       12.0        5.0        1.6       0.0
Total Financing              0.5        9.6       13.9       12.0        5.0        1.6       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.5        9.3       13.6       11.7       4.9       1.5        0.0
Govemment                  0.0        0.3        0.3       0.3        0.1       0.1        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.5        9.6       13.9       12.0        5.0       1.6        0.0
Y Year  I   Year72    Year 3      Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Assumptions for investment period
* Total Government budget for 1995 - 1999 and health budget for 1995- 1999 were used as a basis for
the financial estimations.
*  Total health budget increases by 20% per annum until 2002 (in the context of the Structural
-68 -



Adjustment Program)
*   Donor investment: projections are made on the basis of donors' pledges at the Health Sector Meeting
(March 1999) and data collected on an annual basis and are based on real expenditures in the period
1996-1998. Thereafter donor investment is projected to increase by about 5% a year.
*   Exchange rate: US$1 = 600 FCFA
-69 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Procurement
Procurement of work and goods financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement for IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World
Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for procurement of goods and works will be used for contracts let
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. For contracts awarded under National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, in the absence of national standard bidding documents, the Bank's
SBD will be used with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to "advertising and
notification", "currencies of bid and payment", "settlement of disputes", and deletion of the domestic
preference provision, etc. All architectural studies for rehabilitation and construction and all technical
specifications for medical equipment will be prepared by a specialized consulting firm and will be
submitted to IDA for review. A General Procurement Notice, including a list of all contracts above
US$100,000 will be published in Development Business upon Board approval. Aggregate values have
limited value and will not be exceeded without prior IDA's approval. For this purpose, the project will
maintain a procurement tracking system.
Civil Works estimated to cost US$13.6 million dollars (IDA financing US$13.3 million) are for the
construction and rehabilitation of health centers, district hospitals, prefectural and district health offices, in
health districts in the prefecture of Lac, and Moyen Chari, of some housing for registered nurses (head of
health centers) in the prefecture of Tandjile.  In addition, the project will carry out some limited
rehabilitation of ENASS and rehabilitation of five offices and building of a meeting room at the MOPH.
They are estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$13.2
million and will be procured through NCB procedures. Contract for small works (rehabilitation of ENASS
and MOPH) estimated to cost less than US$75,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$400,000, may
be procured under lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA
and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards would be made to the contractors who offer the
lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. For civil works, contracts estimated to be superior to
US$100,000 and the first two contracts between US$75,000 and US$100,000 will be subject to prior
review.
Goods (excluding pharmaceuticals) estimated to cost US$7.8 million (of which US$7.7 million financed by
IDA), include medical equipment and furniture for district hospitals and health centers, equipment and
supplies, training and audiovisual equipment and supplies, vehicles, and other supplies. Goods will be
grouped, where feasible, into packages valued at least US$100,000 and will be procured through ICB.
Procurement of office furniture, furniture for the nurses' housing and supplies estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$740,000 will be procured through NCB. The project
will also require the purchase of relatively small, mainly consumable items, for MOPH's decentralized
district structures, such as vehicle spare parts, which would be difficult and impractical to package and
procure following NCB procedures. These goods are estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per
contract and, up to an aggregate of US$150,000, may be procured through prudent national shopping (for
- 70 -



items available locally) or, up to US$150,000, through international shopping (for those goods not
available on the national market) on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers,
or through IAPSO (Inter-Agency Procurement Services Offices of the UNDP). All contracts superior to
US$100,000 and the first two contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000 will be subject to prior
review.
Pharmaceuticals and medical products total US$3,360,000 of which US$1.2 million will be procured
through ICB with pre-qualification by the CPPA. The remainder covers the cost of drugs and medical
products which will be bought by the MOPH and the PPPs from the CPPA (the local agency specialized in
drug purchasing and distribution). The CPPA was established in the context of the HSMP project and its
procurenment procedures, which were developed in collaboration with IDA, have been reviewed and found
acceptable by IDA (See Appendix to this Annex for details on the CPPA and its procurement procedures).
The bidding documents to be used by the CPPA when buying with its own funds will be reviewed by IDA
and revised to be acceptable to IDA if necessary. Pharmaceutical and medical products will be procured
directly from the CPPA because (i) it is the only institution in Chad which provides generic essential drugs
and medical products; and (ii) its procurement procedures are found acceptable and efficient by IDA and
the other donors intervening in the health sector.
Consultant Services, training and studies financed by IDA would be for: (i) preparation of documents,
architectural studies, qualitative IEC studies, supervision of works, data collection, accounting and
financial management, audits and impact analysis; (ii) short-term consultancies on specific technical
matters such as nutrition, family planning, procurement, financial management, public health, health
economics and statistics, and the design of training courses; (iii) training abroad and locally of health
facility and MOPH staff; and (iv) services related to behavioral change and communication including the
design, production and distribution/broadcasting of messages and information campaigns. Consultants
financed by IDA, totaling US$5.0 million would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999. Selection of consultants will be done through competition among
qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided.
For audits Least-Cost Selection will be the most appropriate method, i.e., the firm with the lowest price
will be selected, provided its technical proposal received more than the minimum mark required. All
contracts for audits and all contracts awarded to consulting firms for US$100,000 or more and to
individual consultant for US$50,000 or more will be subject to IDA prior review. In addition, for contracts
for services with consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000
respectively, the terms of reference, experience, and terms of employment shall be provided to the bank for
prior review. All terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
Single Source Selection (SSS) can be exceptionally used for IEC-related services for which local
consultants are necessary. These contracts will be inferior to $50,000 and their aggregate will not exceed
$200,000. In addition, the following three tasks (technical assistance services) will be carried out under
SSS contracts by UN Agencies: (i) Support to the Prefecture of Tandjile and to the IEC Division, which
UNICEF is presently providing in the context of the HSMP (the value of the PASS contract between
MOPH and UNICEF is an estimated $1 million. UNICEF is expected to contribute, in addition, about
$1.4 million to the implementation of this project sub-components); (ii) Support to the Pharmacy Division,
to be provided by WHO/EDM as was the case during the implementation of the HSMP (for a total project
contract value of about $250,000); and (iii) Technical assistance to implement the contractualization
sub-component of the project (for a contract value of less than $350,000) to be provided by WHO/OSD.
- 71 -



In the case of the first two tasks, the selection of UNICEF and WHO, respectively, would present a clear
advantage over competition as it represents a continuation of the work they are presently carrying out and
would allow for continuity in the technical approach. With regard to the third task, WHO has been
developing an expertise in contractualization in the health sector and has carried out, in some instances in
collaboration with the Bank, several seminars on the subject in West and Central Africa, including in Chad.
Consequently, it is the most qualified agency in the areas of health and contractualization. These agencies
would only provide technical assistance, they would not do any procurement on behalf of the Government.
Draft terms of reference have been prepared for each of these proposed tasks and the Model contract, for
services to be provided to borrowers by UN agencies, would be used. Services for short-term and ad hoc
consultancies, lectures and small studies which can be delivered by Individual consultants who will be
selected through comparison of qualifications against job description requirements among those expressing
interest in the assignment, or approached directly by the Borrower. For training abroad and in-country, the
program, containing names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training,
institution selection would be reviewed annually.
Short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. The
Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) forms as developed by the Bank will be used for the appointment of
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, simple missions of standard
nature (and not exceeding 6 months) carried out by individual consultants or firms. The Government will
be briefed during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines, in particular with regard to
advertisement and public opening of financial proposals.
The members of the PCT will be hired on a competitive basis, with the exception of staff already financed
by IDA, whose performance has been deemed satisfactory, who may be retained. The selection will be
carried out by advertising in local newspapers. The selection process will be based on explicit evaluation
criteria and a predefined evaluation system agreed upon with IDA. An Evaluation Committee will be
established in consultation with IDA, with the main objectives of ensuring transparency and fairness in the
selection process. The outcome of evaluation will be reported in a formal evaluation report, together with a
quantified score card. The full documentation of the outcome of evaluation (report of the Evaluation
Committee, score card, CVs, reference letters etc.) will be transmitted to IDA for review and no-objection.
Because of the shortages of competent professional staff in Chad, it is likely that most of the qualified
applicants are civil servants. Under Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants
(Conflict of Interests - Paragraph 1-9), government employees are not eligible for financing as consultants,
and are usually required to resign from the civil service in order to become eligible. In Chad, however, there
is little if any employment for professional staff outside the public sector. Consequently, government
employees are generally most unwilling to resign from the civil service to obtain a consultant assignment,
as such assignment is of a temporary nature. This could undermine the capacity building objectives of the
project, and deprive the project of individual professional talents available and underutilized in the public
sector. To address this issue, on an exceptional basis, during the duration of the Project, it is proposed that
government employees may be selected to serve on the PCT and eligible for Bank financing. Any selected
public employees will be required to take leave of absence without pay from government, but not to resign.
Such applications would be acceptable, on an exceptional basis, provided that the following provisions are
observed: a) If candidates selected happen to be civil servants or other government employees, they will be
required to take official leave of absence without pay before their contract is signed; b) The candidates will
submit acceptable evidence that leave of absence has been granted (e.g., a ministerial decree), indicating
that they will maintain no responsibilities within the government; c) that they will receive no salary or other
financial or non-financial benefits from the government during the time that they will serve as consultants
- 72 -



or staff members in the PCT; and d) if and when they resume their duties as government employees,
these staff should be prohibited to supervise any activities related to their consultancy assignment.
In addition, no close relatives (A close relative is defined as follows: mother, father, sister, brother, son,
daughter, ant and uncle, niece and nephew) of PCT staff shall be hired by the PCT either as staff
member or as consultant. In addition, no close relatives (defined as: mother, father, sister, brother, son,
daughter, aunt or uncle, niece or nephew) of PCT staff shall be hired by the PCT either as staff member or
as consultant . The compensation of PCT staff and consultants shall be proposed by the Government for
non objection by IDA. Finally, the evaluation of PCT staff will be carried out according to the established
procedures for evaluation of consultants.
Procurement for the Project will be handled by the PCT staffed with a procurement specialist. Its tasks will
comprise: (a) maintaining a register of all bidders who expressed interest after a GPN or a specific
procurement notice; (b) maintaining a detailed list of technical specifications of goods and services to be
financed by the project; (c) preparation of the procurement plan and schedule; (d) preparation and/or
finalization of bidding documents and requests for proposals; (e) bid evaluation and preparation of
evaluation reports; (f) contract approval process; (g) receipt of goods and services and dispatching; and (h)
processing international and local shopping.  Staff in the unit will have been formally trained in
procurement (add result of procurement assessment when finalized).
Procurement capacity: It was satisfactory during the previous project. However, a formal procurement
capacity assessment will be carried out for the PCU and the CPPA during negotiations in accordance with
OCSPR instructions.
Procurement plan: A procurement plan was prepared by the Borrower and was discussed during
negotiations. The final version will be included in the Project Implementation Manual and will be
submitted to IDA as a condition of effectiveness. The procurement plan will be updated annually by
December 1.
Implementation Manual: The Borrower has prepared an Implementation Manual which was discussed
during negotiations.
- 73 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          13.12          0.45           00             35
(0.00)       (12.95)         (0.38)        (0.00)(1.3
2. Pharmaceuticals and       1.20           0.00          2.16           0.00           3.36-
medical consumable          (1.20)         (0.00)        (2.16)         (0.00)         (3.36)
3. Goods (other than         6.71           0.79          0.30           0.00           7.80
pharmaceuticals and         (6.71)         (0.75)        (0.26)         (0.00)         (7.71)
training materials)
4. Studies                   0.00           0.00          2.61           0.00           2.61
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.61)         (0.00)         (2.61)
5 Consultants' services      0.00           0.00          5.54           0.00           5.54
(0.00)        (0.00)        (5.54)         (0.00)         (5.54)
6. Training and training     0.00           0.00          2.96           0.00           2.96
materials                   (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.96)         (0.00)         (2.96)
7. Incremental               0.00           0.00          6.79           0.00           6.79
Operating costs              (0.00)        (0.00)         (5.99)        (0.00)         (5.99)
Total                     7.91          13.91          20.81          0.00          42.64
(7.91)        (13.70)        (19.9)        (0.00)         (41.51)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include
contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-74 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Con,trat Vatue                               Cnt;a c ts S_u ect to
Thresiold              Procunwment             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ mtillions)
1. Works                       >500                     ICB                     YES
>75 and <500               NCB                 YES for >$100
Aggreg. US$13.12 million
>75 and <100               Other                 Post review
<75            Aggreg. US$0.4 million
2. Goods                       >100                     ICB                     YES
Aggreg. $7.91 million
(Including 1.2 million
--                  for drugs)            YES for >$100
Other
Aggreg. US$3.4 million
(for drugs to be bought
through CPPA for health
>30 and <100              facilities)            Post review
NCB
<30            Aggreg. US$0.8 million        Post review
Other
Aggreg. US$0.3
3. Services                    >100                    QCBS                     Yes
Firms                        <100                   QCBS                  Post review
IEC-related services            <50                     SSS                     Yes
Audits                                                Least cost                Yes
4. Services                     >50                   Individual                Yes
Individuals                  <50_A                                        Post review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$25.2 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 75 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The IDA Credit will be disbursed against (i) for civil works: 100% of foreign expenditure, 95% of local
expenditure; (ii) for goods: 100% of foreign expenditure, 90% of local expenditure (ex-factory cost); (iii)
for consultants, including training and workshops: 100% of expenditures and for (iv) operating costs: 90%
of expenditures incurred during the first three years following the Effective Date and 85% thereafter.
Level of financing for civil works can be higher than for goods because local building materials are used on
which there is no import duties. The IDA Credit will be disbursed over a period of 5 years (from July 1,
2000 to June 30, 2005).
Decentralized Special Accounts
Cash advances not to exceed 60 days will be made from the Special Account to the health districts for the
payment of their operating costs. These cash advances will correspond to three months operating costs and
will be renewable upon presentation of supporting documents up to that estimated amount.
Funds intended to the executing agencies (WHO, UNICEF, other technical support agencies) for their
technical support will be paid directly from the Credit according to the timetables provided in the contracts
concluded between them and the Government.
The funding of the NGOs for their services rendered will be made either through direct payments from the
IDA Credit or cash advances made from the Special account, on the basis of contracts between NGOs and
the Government.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
ixodtr Ca0te000gor              k ,>6unQ6it i U$$il2lionFnning P et-age00700
l. Civil Works                             10.75          100% of foreign expenditures and 95%
of local expenditures
2. Goods: Equipment and Furniture          5.97           100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3. Drugs and medical products              3.02           100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
4. Studies                                 2.09                         100%
5. Consultants' services and training      6.85                         100%
6. Operating cost                          4.70          90% of expenditures incurred during the
first three years following the Effective
Date and 85% thereafter
7. Non allocated                           8.12
Total Project Costs                        41.50
Total                                      41.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications shall be fully documented for all expenditures against which Credit disbursements
would be made, except for the following contracts for which Credit disbursements would be based on
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Project Coordinator: (a) goods and works under
- 76 -



contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts of consulting firms costing less than
US$ 100,000 equivalent each or with individuals costing less than US$ 50,000 each; (c) incremental
operations costs and (d) training. Documents supporting the SOEs shall be retained by the PCT and made
available for review as requested by auditors and by the World Bank supervision missions. The percentage
not financed by the Bank has been calculated to cover Government counterpart obligations, taxes and
duties on average, over the lifespan of the project.
Special account:
In order to expedite disbursements and ensure that funds for the Project are available as needed, the
Government would open and maintain two Special Accounts for IDA share of eligible expenditure in a
Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA for the duration of the Project, one for Part A, B, C, and D of the
Project (Special Account No. 1) and another to Part E of the Project (Special Account No. 2). The
authorized allocations of the Special Account No. I will be US$2.0 million, representing about four months
of Project expenditures, and US$400,000 for Special Account No. 2. IDA will make an initial deposit of
US$1,000,000 in Special Account No. I once the Credit is declared effective and the PCT prepares and
submits a withdrawal application for the said amount to the Bank. The first deposit of US$200,000 for
Special Account No. 2 will be made in 2001, when a plan and budget satisfactory to IDA will have been
finalized for the national surveys. The Special Account No. 2 will be managed by the Economic Unit of the
Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation who will be responsible for certifying
disbursement requests. Only withdrawal applications and applications for each of the special commitments
exceeding at least 20% of the amount advanced to the Special Account may be submitted to IDA.
Government counterparts
The Government's counterpart funds needed to cover 5% of local civil works costs, 10% of local costs of
goods and 10% of local operating cost, during the first three years following the Effective Date and 15%
thereafter, will be deposited by the Government in a Project Account at a Commercial Bank acceptable to
IDA. As condition to effectiveness, the Government will make an initial deposit of FCFA 50 million
(approximately US$ 80,000) representing about four months of Project expenditures; the account will
subsequently be replenished on a quarterly basis.
Financial management
During pre-appraisal, the Bank mission has ascertained that the financial management system in place at
the PCU of the ongoing Health and Safe Motherhood Project is acceptable to IDA. It provides the PCU
and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures.
Before effectiveness, (i) the key staff of the PCT will be recruited and (ii) an external audit firm will be
contracted before effectiveness. The financial management system will include accounting, financial
reporting and auditing elements.
Accounting
Accounting and budgetary systems and internal controls will be set out in detail in the Manual of
administrative and accounting procedures to be satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that
operations are properly recorded and resources safeguarded. The accounting system for the PCU will be
computerized using appropriate and Y2K compliant software.
- 77 -



Financial reporting
The PCT will provide quarterly activity reports. The annual financial statements of the Project will be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Chad and will include at least (i) a
summary of sources and uses of funds, (ii) project balance sheet, and (iii) a statement of the Special
Account.
The Bank is introducing the use of Project Management Reports (PMRs) as a new reporting requirement
aiming at standardizing financial reporting among projects and providing cost accounting and management
data to project managers. Projects which can produce PMRs may choose to use them for disbursement.
During pre-appraisal it was assessed by a certified financial management specialist of the mission team that
the Project does not have in place an adequate financial management system that can provide with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the Project using PMR based
disbursements. While an assessment has been made that the PMR procedures would not be appropriate for
the Project at the beginning, there is a need to ensure that the systems put in place are operating efiectively.
The monitoring and evaluation process will include quarterly activity reports, which are consistent with the
PMR requirements. The financial, output and procurement monitoring systems will be reviewed as part of
a supervision mission 15 months after effectiveness to assess whether PMRs are satisfactory to the Bank.
At that time, if the client chooses to transition to PMR-based disbursement, they may do so, provided PMR
formats and content is acceptable to the Bank (the plan is in the project files).
Auditing
The financial statements of the Project will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. The selection of an appropriate auditor will be one of the conditions of effectiveness. The auditor
will provide an opinion on: (i) the Project's financial statements, (ii) statement of expenditures (SOEs), (iii)
Special Account, and (iv) a management report on internal controls outlining any recommendation for
improving administrative and accounting procedures identified as a result of the financial audit. The
financial statements of the Project and the corresponding audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
- 78 -



Appendix to Annex 6:
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement procedures for the Central Pharmaceutical Procurement Agency (CPPA)
Institutional framework: The CPPA has been created by law in 1994 and its statutes were established by a
Ministerial decree in early 1995. It was created with the assistance the Health and Safe Motherhood
Project (Cr. 2626 CD). These texts stipulate that the CPPA is under the technical supervision of the
Ministry of Public Health, but that it is a legally and financially autonomous entity with a Board of nine
members including the Director of Health Institutions (who preside the Committee) and the Director of the
National Reference Hospital, both representing the Government, the Director of the CPPA, two elected
members representing bilateral and multi-lateral donor agencies, two elected members representing NGOs
and other non-profit entities working in the health sector, and two members elected by health committees of
health centers, representing the beneficiaries. The elected members of the Management Committee have a
three-year mandate with the exception of the members representing the beneficiaries who are rotated every
year.
The Board's mandate is to:
*   Define and ensure the mission of the CPPA is carried out;
*  Approve the annual budget, and review and clear the financial statements prepared by the Director
of the CPPA;
-   Determine, within the guidelines provided by the statutes, the sale price of products sold by the
CPPA;
-   Approve the procurement procedures and appoint the procurement commission which analyzes the
suppliers bids; and
*   Authorize the CPPA to borrow funds, to accept grants and gifts and decide on how available funds
are invested and used.
Management is carried out on a daily basis by a Director who is a Chadian Pharmacist assisted by an
accountant/administrator. This key personnel has to be satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement procedures for pharmaceutical and medical products: Pharmaceutical and medical products
are procured to be sold to the Prefectoral Purchasing Pharmacies (PPP), the Government, public and
non-profit health facilities and donors. When buying with IDA funds, the CPPA follows IDA International
Competitive Bidding procedures with pre-qualification. When buying with its own funds, the CPPA uses
bidding documents adapted from IDA model documents for International Competitive bidding for the
purchase of pharmaceutical and medical products.  These documents were adapted to make them
acceptable to all donors funding goods purchased from the CPPA. These adapted documents and
procedures have been reviewed by IDA, in the context of the HSMP and were found to be satisfactory.
These procedures rest on the five following principles:
* Transparency in procurement methods
* Technical guaranties for the quality of the products
* Flexibility which allow to respond to emergencies
* Registration of all products
* Active communication between the CPPA and its clients.
The CPPA can only buy products which are on the list of essential drugs and medical products for the
- 79 -



country (in principle, special orders can be placed exceptionally, but the importation of products not on the
list of essential products has to be approved by the Government and this is rarely done). This list is
updated bi-annually by the MOPH and includes mostly generic drugs, small equipment and medical
consumables. Specialties are bought only when generic molecules are not available. These products are
imported free of taxes. The quantities ordered are determined on the basis of previsions. These previsions
are estimated on the basis of previous client consumption and informal client surveys, and on available
financial resources.
A pre-qualification notice, to which all suppliers can reply, is issued once a year. Any interested supplier
can obtain the pre-qualification documents. In addition, a supplier may, at any time, apply to be considered
for the next bid if meeting the qualification criteria. In particular, in order to ensure the quality of the
products, suppliers must be either manufacturers of the products or accredited by the manufacturer. Once
pre-qualified, a supplier is retained for a period of three years or three bids (which ever comes first),
starting the month following the notification that he has been pre-qualified. When a bid is launched, the
CPPA send the bidding documents to all the pre-qualified suppliers who can provide the item(s) for which
the bid is being launched. The selection is made on the basis of the bid analysis done by the procurement
commission. The award is made on the basis of price provided quality and delivery requirements are met.
For a few products, e.g. vaccine and anti-venom, for which there are only a few suppliers, the CPPA uses
intemational shopping.
When the products arrive in the country, samples to be tested for quality are collected and sent to a WHO
accredited laboratory (in Niamey). A final reception report is issued only when the results of the quality
analysis are available. Quality control of products is carried out systematically on each new drug supplied
by a new supplier and, on a random sample basis, for the following deliveries.
Sale ofpharmaceutical and medical products: The clients of the CPPA are the PPPs, the Government and
the donors, for their respective project areas. Sale prices include transport to the PPPs. All the clients
(whether buying in N'Djamena or at the PPP level) pay the same price, the closer clients thus subsidizing
the PPPs which are located far from N'Djamena.
Sale prices are calculated on the basis of the purchase price by the CPPA to which is added a margin to
cover the overhead costs. The overhead charge, which covers administrative costs, including salaries of the
CPPA staff, delivery costs, quality control, etc., is fixed, once a year, by the Board, in function of the
planned operating budget. In the statutes, however, it is specified that the margin cannot exceed 18% of the
purchasing price; at the moment the margin is 16%, which allows the CPPA to sell its products at prices
that are very competitive, at equal quality, with private suppliers and UN agencies.
Financial aspects: The CPPA's financial management is based on the procedures included in the Manual
of Procedures. In addition, it is audited twice a year and, as of 1999, the auditors have participated to the
annual inventory. The CPPA is in the process of recruiting an auditor for the calendar year 2001 when it
will no longer be supported by the HSMP
- 80 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Project-Schedule                                 Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            04/18/98                     04/18/98
Appraisal mission departure                    05/05/99                     12/04/99
Negotiations                                   02/15/2000                   03/21/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Public Health
Preparation assistance:
A PHRD Grant supported preparation work on the following project subcomponents Human resources,
Decentralization, Community participation and cost recovery, Cost of Extension of Health coverage (in
new prefectures and HSMP prefectures), Institutional strengthening, Support to the NASHCP and Support
to the Pharmaceutical Policy. In addition, the grant financed the preparation of the draft Implementation
Manual and of the draft Procedure Manual.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
The Project Team included Bank staff and consultants
Michele Lioy                     Population and Communication and TTL
Slaheddine Ben-Halima            Project Implementation
Isabella Micali Drossos          Legal aspects
Jean-Charles de Daruvar          Legal aspects
Solange Alliali                  Legal aspects
Jean Perrot (OMS)                Health Economics
Olivier Weil (consultant)        Public Health
Daniel Dupety (consultant)       Project Implementation
Caroline Damour (consultant)     Pharmaceutical Sector
Pierre Delvoye (consultant)      Public Health and Training
Luc de Bernis (Consultant)       Reproductive Health
Magaye Gaye                      Financial Management
Myrina McCullough                Program Assistant
Roselyne Leroy                   Team Assistant
The Quality Assurance Team
A. Edward Elmendorf              Public Health Lead Specialist
Christopher Walker               Public Health
Richard Cambridge                Operations Support
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson          Health Economics
Mary-Odile Waty                  Health Economics
- 81 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Ministry of Public Health: Manual of Administrative and accounting Procedures
Ministry of Public Health: Implementation Manual
Action Plan for Upgrading Financial Management
Procedure Manual of the Central Pharmaceutical Purchasing Agency
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Luc de Bernis (Bank Consultant): Innovative interventions in the area of reproductive health, May 1999
Gerard Schmets (Bank Consultant): Prospective Analysis of costs and financing in the Health Sector,
February 1999
C. Other
Ministry of Public Health: Policy Package Summary, Geneva IV Round Table Process, January 1999
Ministry of Public Health: National Health Policy, March 1999
Ministry of Public Health: Study of the Pharmaceutical Sector in the Republic of Chad: Monitoring
Indicators for the National Pharmaceutical Policy
Ministry of Public Health: National Health Communication Strategy, 1999
Ministry of Public Health: Beneficiary Assessment on the Use of Health Services, August 1998
Ministry of Public Health: Agreement between Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Finances and the
CPPA
Central Bureau of the Census: Demographic and health Survey 1996-97
The following reports were prepared by Ministry of Public Health with the assistance of the Group
SECOR:
*   Strengthening of the decentralization process
*  Extension of the health coverage: Preparatory study
*  Extension of health coverage: Synthesis of the problem and proposals
-  Development of Human resources: Analysis of the problem
Development of Human resources: Training component
*  Community participation
*  Implementation of the National Pharmaceutical Policy
*  Support to the National AIDS Control Strategy
Republic of Chad: Law No. 01 8/PR/99, Creating Autonomous Public Hospitals in Health Prefectures and
Districts,
December 10, 1999
Republic of Chad: Law No. 01 9/PR/99, Instituting Community Participation to Health Services Financing,
December 10, 1999
Secretaire Gen&ral du Gouvernement: Evidence that the legislation relative to the Pharmacy was adopted
by the Cabinet on March 14, 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 82 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Fmm Rev'd
TD-PE-44974    1999 GOVERNMENT OF CHAD          SAC III                                  0.00       30.00        0.00       0.04    -29.74      0.00
TD-PE-532      1998 GOVTOFCHAD                  HOUSEHOLDENERGY                          0.00        5.27        0.00       5.35      1.68      0.00
TD-PE-35623    1996 GOVT OF CHAD                CAPACITY BUILDING                        0.00        9.50        0.00       1.37      2.03      0.00
TD-PE-35601    1995 GOVT OF CHAD                POP. & AIDS CO                           0.00       20.40        0.00       9.78      1.81       0.00
TD-PE-501      1995 GOVERNMENT                  AG SERVICES                              0.00       24 53        0.00      10.13      1.10       0.00
TD-PE-509      1994 GOVT OF CHAD                HEALTH & SAFE MOTHER                     0.00      29.40         0.00      10.37     -2.54       0.93
TD-PE-517      1993 GOVT                        BASIC EDUCATION                          0.00       19.30        0.00      10.06     10.26       o.0o
TD-PE-530      1993 GOVERNMENT OF CHAD          TRANSPORT SECT II                        0.00       49.70        0.00       2.50    -11.18       1.07
Total:       000       188.10        0.00      49.60    -26.58      2.00
-83 -



CHAD
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
-84 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHAD: Health Sector Support Project
Sub-                                                  9/21/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low-               -
Chad      Africa   Income       Development diamond
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millionsl                          7.4       628      3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP per caODita (Atls method. USS$                       230       480        520
GNP (Atfas method. USS billions)                         1.7       304      1.844
Averaae annual nrowth. 1992-98
PoDulation M%l                                           2.5        2.6       1.7
Labor force f%1                                          2.5        2.6       1.9      GNP                                Gross
Moat recant  '--~~~~~~~~- ~~--~~~    avaIlable, ~~~~per                                           primary
Most recent estirnto latest vear available. 1992-98t                                   capita                         enrollmernl
Povertv 1% of oooulation below national Dovertv line)
Urban poDulation f% of total DoDuiationl                  23         33        31
Life expectancv at birth fvears)                          49         51        63
Infant mortality (oer 1.000 live births)                 100         91        69
Child malnutrition t% of children under 5)                39          .                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water t% of Dooulation)                    24         47        74
Illiteracv (% of oooulalion aoe 15+)                      52        42         32
Gross orimarv enrollment f% of school-aoe DoDulation)     55        77        IDS            Chad         Low-income group
Male                                                   74         84        113
Female                                                 36         69        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratlos'
GDP IUSS billions)                              0.9      1.2        1.5       '.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  18.5      9.1       1683      14.9
Exports of opods and services/GDP              15.4     15.4       18.7      19.3                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                      5.4    -11.6       1t4        2.6
Gross national savinos/GDP                       .         ..       4.5       5.0
Current account balance/GDP                   -14,0    -13.0      -11.8       -9.9
Interest avyments/GDP                           0.1      0.3        1.0       t:0      Domestic                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 15.8     27.9       54.9      51.6      Savings
Total debt service/exports                      2.7      4.0        8.1        8.6
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..       34,3         -
Present value of debt/exoorts                     .        ..     195.3
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
GDP                                   2.1       1.9      4.1        8.1       5.0              Chad    -Low-income group
GNP oer caoita                       -0.2      -0.8      3.5        2.8                              -       n
Exoorts of ooovs and services         0.8       2.5     26.0       12.3       8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             s0
Aoriculture                                    35.2     33.1       37.4      38.6      40
Industrv                                       13.6     14.6       14.7       13.9       t -
Manufacturino                                10.8      11.4       12.4      11.7     20
Services                                       51.5     52.3       47.9       47.5    -20     3
Private consumotion                            77.7     95.8       87.6      88.0      -0
General covernment consumDtion                 16.9     15.8       10.9        9.4                      GDI       tGDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                  28.4     36.4       33.6      31.7
(averaae annual orowth)                    1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aoriculture                                     0.1      4.3        5.1       11.2    30
Industrv                                        2.1      1.6        9.4       10.4    20
Manufacturina                                  ..        ..       12.5      10.9     10
Services                                        3.0     -0.1        1.5        4.0      / 
00
Private consumotion                             4.1      1.0        2.1        8.2    -10 -    _     9    95   95   97   98
General oovernment consumotion                 -1.3     -3.7      -11.6       -4.9
Gross domestic investment                      -8.0      0.3       25.3       -2.9    20
ImDorts of ooods and services                   4.3     -1.5        9.1        1.2             -     Exports      'Imports
Gross national oroduct                          2.1      1.7        6.7        5.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond vill
be incomplete.
-85 -



Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                           eD
(% change)
Consumer prices                                            -6.0        5.6       4.3      40
Implicit GDP deflator                             8.6      -3.1        2.8       41       20
Government finance                                                                         o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                      94    95    95    97    99
Current revenue                                             5.6        8.4       7.6    -20
Current budget balance                                     -2.3        0.2       0.1                     GOP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -18.0        -9.5      -7 7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1977      1987       1997       1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                        109        237        269      500
Cotton                                                    41         115       146
Meat                                                      42          61        64      400
Manufactures                                                4                           300
Total imports (cif)                                        366        424        454      200
Food                                             ..       18          18        19                                              99
Fuel and energy                                   ..      38          18        33      100
Capital goods                                    ..       90         158       169 
Exoort orice index f1995=100)                               81          96       100
Imoort Drice index (1995=100)                               74         104       110                *Exports        aImports
Termsoftrade f1995=100)                             .      109          92        91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                  1977      1987       1997       1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     131      180        287        328 
Imports of goods and services                    246       424        515        537
Resource balance                                -115      -244        -228      -209       -4.
Net income                                         -2   -11    -29    -28                         I         uhf
Net current transfers                                                   76        69       -5
Current account balance                         -131      -151        -182      -168      -12
Financing items (net)                             127      180         154       152
Changes in net reserves                             4       -30         27        16      =s
Memo.
Reserves includino oold fUSS millions)             20       57         174       135
Conversion rate (DEC. loca/USS)                 245.7    300.5       583.0      589.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987        1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              148      325        842        876
IBRD                                             0         0          0          0                      F 15  G: 7
IDA                                             24        61        457        472
Total debt service                                  4        7          35        47
IBRD                                             0         0          0          0
IDA                                              0         1          5          7
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                            8 472
Offic'ial grants                                35       106         72         64          0:1ea
Official creditors                              30        38         42         94
Private creditors                                7         3          0         -1
Foreign direct investment                       21         8         15
Portfolio equity                                 0         0          0                             C C 50
World Bank program
Commitments                                      2        19         25         16      A-IBRD                          E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    8        13         48         29      B -IDA     0- Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                             0         1           2         3     IC -IMF                         G- Shori-tem|
Net flows                                         8       12         46         26
Interest payments                                0         1           3         4
Net transfers                                     8       12         43         22
Development Economics                                                                                                          9121/99
- 86 -



ANNEX 1 1
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD                         UniteTravail-Progres
MINISTERE DE LA PROMOTION ECONOMIQUE
DU DEVELOPPEMENT ET DE LA COQPERATION
DIRECTION GENERALE
A
Monsieur le Directeur les
operations pour le Tchad,
Banque Mondiale,
Washington
U.S.A.
Objet: Leffre de Politique de Sant6 Publique
1.La pr6sente lettre a pour objet d'exposer la Politique du Gouvernement du TCHAD
qui sert de cadre a la r6alisation des plans, projets et strat6gies de d6veloppement
du secteur;
I    CONTEXTE
2.La constitution de la R%pu6iique du Tchad issue du Referendum du 31 Mars 1996
garantit, entre autre, les libert6s et droits fondamentaux de I'individu (sant6,
6ducation).
3.La Politique Nationale de sant6 est conforme, d'une part aux grands principes de
l'Organisation Mondiale de la Sant6 dont il est membre et d'autre part a ses r6alit6s
socio-6conomiques et culturelles. Elle est fond6e sur le principe d'universalit6 qui fait
de la sant6 un droit fondamental de tout tchadien et I'action sanitaire une ceuvre
sociale de solidarit6 de I'Etat, des collectivit6s et de l'individu.
Ce droit a la sante induit deux (2) objectifs politiques:
* Mettre la sant6 au cceur du d6veloppement : veiller a ce que la sant6 soit prise en
consideration dans la planification du d6veloppement durable;
* Elaborer des systemes de sant6 durables pour repondre aux besoins des
populations et garantissant l'6quit6 d'acces aux fonctions sanitaires essentielles.
87



4.La situation sanitaire bien qu'elle ait connue quelques am6liorations notables,
continue a etre caract6risee par:
* La persistance d'une forte morbidit6 et mortalite en particulier dans la
population infantile et maternelle;
* La predominance des maladies infectieuses et parasitaires au sein de la
population.
Cette situation est agiavee par:
* La faiblesse de la couverture sanitaire;
* Un personnel quantitativement et qualitativement insuffisant.
* Un sous 6quipement des services sant6;
* Une capacit6 insuffisante dans la gestion de ressources humaines,
mat6rielles et financi6res;
* Une insuffisance dans l'int6gration des activites de sant6;
II    ORIENTATIONS
5.La priorit6 de la Politique Nationale de Sante d6finit dans le Plan d'Orientation est:
d'assurer la promotion de la populAtion pour lui permettre de ma?triser les
changements culturels, sociaux, 6conomique et technologique auxquels le pays aura
.3 faire face. Cette condition demeure une condition sine qua non du d6veloppement.
Le Tchad, dans tous ses documents officiels, a rappel6 le r6le que doivent jouer la
sant6 et l'education comme facteurs du d6veloppement 6conomique du pays. A ce
titre, les secteurs sociaux sont consid6r6s comme des facteurs z: X4-eloppement et
doivent b6n6ficier des ressources n6cessaires.
6.La sant6 est un facteur de lutte contre la pauvrete: la sant6 est un element d'une
approche globale de lutte contre la pauvrete. En coordonnant les actions avec les
autres secteurs concern6s, 6ducation, activit6s a haute intensit6 de main d'ceuvre
appui aux coopercuives, agriculture... Le secteur de la sante contribue a att6nuer la
pauvrete extreme des groupes particulierement vuln6rables au sein de la societ6
tchadienne.
7.La Politique Nationale de Sant6 present6e ici se fonde sur un double constat: le
niveau actuel de la sant6 des populations est tres bas malgr6 les efforts d'une part et
d'autre part l'acces aux services des soins de base reste limit6, et la qualit6 des
services est faible.
8.La priorite revient a la mise en place et au developpement des districts sanitaires
qui doivent fournir le Paquet Minimum d'Activit6s (PMA) au niveau des centres de
sante de premier 6chelon, le Paquet Compl6mentaire d'Activites (PCA) au niveau
des h6pitaux de districts.
88



III. OBJECTIFS DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE
9.L'objectif majeur de la politique nationale de sant6 est - d'assurer a la population
l'acces a des services de sant6 de base de qualit6 - s'inscrivant ainsi dans la
philosophie de l'Organisation Mondiale de la Sant6 a savoir Sante Pour Tous sur un
horizon aussi rapproch6 que possible: Ces principaux axes de la Politique Nationale
de Sant6 sont:
i)   Le developpement des services de sant6 de base de qualite pour la
population;
ii)   L'urgence de disposer des ressources humaines de qualit6;
iii)   L'am6lioration de la gestion du systeme de sant6;
iv)   La poursuite de la lutte contre les maladies end6miques et epid6miques
Les objectifs specifiques sont ennonc6s ci-dessous:
- Couverture Sanitaire
* Etendre progressivement la couverture sanitaire a tous les districts en assurant le
fonctionnement op6rationnel de tous les centres de sant6
* Veiller a ce que les centres de sant6 de 1er echelon soient prioritaires dans
l'affectation de ressources
* Renforcer l'application du PMA et du PCA, en particulier dans le domaine de la
sant6 de la reproduction
- Politique Pharmaceutique Nationale
* Accro?tre la capacit6 de la Centrale Pharmaceutique d'Achats a la demande
- Renforcer le systeme de distribution de m6dicaments g6n6riques essentiels par le
biais des Pharmacies Pr6fectorales d'Approvisionnement (PPA)
* Poursuivre une politique de contr6le de la qualit6 des medicaments
* Eduquer les prescripteurs pour l'usage rationnel du m6dicament
- Poursuivre et developper les efforts pour augmenter le taux de frequentation
des centres de sante en ameliorant la qualit6 des services.
- D6veloppement-'  -s Ressources Humaines
* Veiller a ce que chaque centre de sante ait au moins un (1) Infirmier (e) qualifie
d'ici 2002
* Acc6l6rer le recrutement et la formation aux techniques de soins de base
* D6velopper et etoffer les capacit6s de formation d'ici I'an 2002
* Poursuivre le programme de formation initiale decentralis6e (FID), d6centraliser le
recrutement et regionaliser le poste d'ici l'an 2002
* Accroittre le nombre d'Infirmiers et Medecins qualifies pour 100 000 habitants et
am6liorer la repartition r6gionale du personnel sanitaire
89



- Gestion du Systeme de Sante
* Renforcer ia capacite institutionnelle du niveau central pour la mise en application
de la strat6gie nationale de sant6 publique d'ici I'an 2001
* Etablir un plan d'action des hopitaux pr6fectoraux et districts sanitaires
comprenant les subventions de i'Etat et la participation de la population ax6 sur
un transfert de responsabilit6 des services de soins et de l'entretien des centres
de sante par:
i)   introduire progressivemc  :-  systeme harmonis6 de contributions
financieres minimum des usagers pour certains services;
ii)   mener des campagnes d'6ducation et d'information publique;
iii)   mener p6riodiquement des enquetes de satisfaction aupres des
b6neficiaires du systeme de sant6;
iv)   promulguer et mettre en application sous forme (e nilote  les textes
regissant la participation de la collectivite (comit6s de sant6, comit6s de
gestion, recouvre.nt des coOts et l'autonomie des h6pitaux).
- Mettre en place des m6canismes contractuels r6gissant la fourniture des
services de sant6 par des Op6rateurs Prives.
- Accro'itre les efforts pour r6duire l'impact des maladies end6miques et
6pid6miques
* Relever les taux de vaccination des nourrissons contre le BCG, le DTC3 et la
rougeole de 45% d'ici l'an 2002
* Poursuivre la lutte contre les MST/SIDA dans le cadre de la multisectorialite
* Poursuivre la lutte contre le paludisme dans le cadre de l'lnitiative Mondiale
(( Roll Back Malaria )) (R.B.M.)
Renforcer le systeme de suivi et d'alerte avanc6e contre les acces de maladie
potentiellement 6pidemique (chol6ra, m6ningite, tuberculose) et d6finir une
politique de r6action rapide d'ici l'an 2001
- Adopter en conseil des Ministres une Politique int6gr6e en matiere d'eau et
d'assainissement pour accroftre I'acces a l'eau potable.
IV.  STRATEGIE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE SANTE
10.La strat6gie d^. de5veloppement sanitaire du Tchad est bas6e sur le concept de
soins de sante primaire adopte par la Conf6rence d'ALMA-ATA en 1978.
11.Afin d'acc6l6rer la mise en oeuvre de soins de sante primaires douze (12)
orientations strat6giques ont ete retenues et d6veloppees:
* i) compl6ter la couverture sanitaire en assurant progressivement
l'op6rationnalit6 et la fonctionnalit6 de tous les districts.
90



Afin d'6viter la dispersion des moyens, la strat6gie du Ministere de la Sant6
Publique vise a concentrer les efforts pour rendre progressivement
*4 op6rationnels v des districts sanitaires.
* ii) Consolider In mise en cuvre du PMA et du PCA, notamment dans les
domaines de la mortalite maternelle et infantile.
Le Ministere de la Sant6 Publique (MSP) poursuivra la mise en oeuvre du PMA et
du PCA. Cependant, en raison d'une situation alarmante concernant la mortalite
maternelle et infantile, un accent tout particulier sera mis sur le groupe cible
* mere-enfant et la sant6 de la reproduction.
* iii)  Renforcer  les  capacites  institutionnelles  au  niveau  central.
Le Ministere doit poursuivre le renforcement de ces capacit6s au niveau central,
notamment les entit6s chargees de la gestion et de la definition des strategies du
systeme: Direction G6n6rale (BCESPP), Division du Systeme d'lnformation Sanitaire
(DSIS), Division de la Planification, Cellule Pedagogique, Division de la Pharmacie,
Division de l'lnformation, de l'Education et de ia Communicatiu,-.c (
* iv) Assurer la disponjoilite en ressources humaines qualifiees.
La disponibilit6 en ressources humaines de qualit6 constitue depuis longtemps un
element crucial du d6veloppement de la couverture sanitaire en districts et la
mise en ceuvre'du PMA/PCA. Aujourd'hui, le Ministere de la Sant6 Publique et les
Partenaires au D6veloppement reconnaissent l'urgence du probleme. Deux (2)
axes d'action sont privil6gies:
a)   L'acc6leration de la formation initiale:
La formation initiale " de croisiere , de l'Ecole Nationale des Agents Sociaux et
Sanitaires sera completee pour une formation initiale d6centralisee (FID) dans quatre
(4) centres r6gionaux de formation: N'C.^MENA - MOUNDOU - SARH et ABECHE.
Par ailleurs, le Ministere s'oriente vers une dissociation entre le nombre de bourses
et le nombre de places en formation, de meme entre ce dernier et le recrutement
automatique dans la Fonction Publique.
b)   Am6lioration dans la gestion du Personnel
Dans le cadre de la d6cert-'liation, le MSP doit se preparer a del6guer la gestion
de ses personnels, rapprocher les lieux de formation et d'affectation, ameliorer la
coordination de la formation a I'Etranger.
v)   Poursu.,c ies activites relatives au domaine du medicament dans le
cadre de la Politique Nationale Pharmaceutique.
91



Les realisations importantes enregistr6es dans le domaine du m6dicament par la
cr6ation de la Centrale Pharmaceutique d'Approvisionnemen, --A) et la
renforcement de la Division de la Pharmacie doivent etre consolid6s. Les deux (2)
principales actions serc...
* Mise en ceuvre de la Politique Pharmaceutique Nationale (PPN);
* Mise en place des Pharmacies Pr6fectorales d'Approvisionnement.
vi) Renforcer le processus de d6concentration/d6centralisation en
concertation avec les Ministeres concern6s.
La d6concentration/decentralisation que peut mettre en place le Ministere de la
Sante Publique doit s'inscrire dans le processus des reformes de I'Etat. Plusieurs
orientations sont envisag6es:
* Renforcer la capacit6 de planif Cat-n et de budg6tisation aux niveaux central,
prefectoral et de district;
- Envisager la participation des pr6fectures sanitaires a la gestion des ressources
humaines: affectation, recrutement, reploiement, mutation, incitation, sanction...
- Preciser les responsabilit6s des pr6fectures, des delegations pr6fectorales de
sant6 et des districts sanitaires en matiere d'autonomie "t h6pitaux et de
contractualisation des services de sant6.
vii) Participation des Polpulations au financement des Services de Sante.
La participation financiere des populations a constitu6 un 6l6ment-cl6 de la
revitalisation des t;rvices de sant6, les exp6riences ont abouti a la coexistence des
systemes de recouvrement des couts sensiblement diff6rents les uns des autres dont
il convient aujourd'hui de limiter les effets n6gatifs.
viii) L'approche contractuelle comme outil de mise en oeuvre de la Politique
Nationale de Sant6.
Le MSP n'envisage pas l'approche contractuelle comme un moyen de se
d6sengager ni de pratiquer une privatisetion d6guis6e. 11 doit d'abord sensibiliser
tous les acteurs potentiellement concernes par cette nouvelle approche.
Deux (2) voies seront emprunt6es:
* Une meilleure reconnaissance des interlocuteurs du secteur priv6 et de leur
action (conventions et agr6ments doivent etre mieux elabores et suivis).
* Un meilleur partenariat avpc. comme outil de mise en ceuvre, la
contractualisation: I'Etat souhaite entrer en relation avec les Partenaires afin de
mener avec eux des actions qu'ils auront pris soin de codifier au travers
d'arrangements contractuels qui les lient.
92



IA)  rreserver ex renrorcer ies acquis dans les actions concernant les
maladies chroniques endemiques.
Le Gouvernement a mis en place les programmes nationaux de lutte contre
les maladies localement end6miques. Malgr6 les progres perceptibles, la
poursuite d'appui a leurs actions s'avere n6cessaire au risque de fragiliser les
acquis et les strat6gies de lutte d6ja mises en place.
Le Tchad n'a pas la possibilit6 d'assurer seul la charge de ces programmes et
les r6sultats sont encore fragile. C'est pourquoi, le Gouvernement lance un
appel urgent a la communaute des Partenaires au d6veiup,cient pour que
celle-ci poursuive ses efforts.
x)   Renforcer le controle des epid6mies, en particulier le cholera et la
m6ningite.
Le Gouvernement a cr6e un Comite Technique national de Lutte contre les
Epid6mies (CNTLE). Cependant, ces 6pid6mies font chaque ann6e, de
milliers de morts, alors que les moyens d'une lutte efficace existent. Le
Gouvernement souhaite rendre permanent le fonctionnement du Comite
Technique Nationale de Lutte contre les Epid6mies avec une double mission:
i) prevention et
ii) lutte contre les 6pid6mies.
xi)  Poursuivre une lutte contre les MST/SIDA  dans le cadre de la
multisectorialit6.
Outre le Programme de Lutte contre les MST/SIDA (PNLS), le Gouvernement
a mis en place d'une part une Commission Techniqaue 'i Lutte contre les
MST/SIDA qui est un Organe d'encadrement technique, de caractere multi-
sectoriel et multidisci-O'naire et d'autre part un Comit6 National de Lutte contre
le SIDA. La perennisation des acquis du PNLS n6cessite la poursuite de
l'appui au risque de voir dispara7itre les r6alisations enregistr6es.
xii)  Renforcer les activites d'IEC pour accompagner la mise en aeuvre de la
Politique Nationale de Sant6.
La Division Information, Education et Communication, cr66e en 1995 a vu ses
pr6rogatives 6largies a l'information et a la communication. Le MSP devra
s'appuyer sur les acquis de la strategie IEC en matiere de Sant6 Publique
pour la mise en oeuvre de la Politique Nationale de Sante. II convient donc de
renforcer les acquis de la Division en mettant en place un plaidoyer actif
aupres de tous les acteurs pour intensifier l'education pour la sante au centre
des preoccupations de tous, en renforcant les capacit6s des diff6rents
Partenaires a 6laborer, a mettre en ceuvre et a 6valuer les plans de
communication.
93



L'ensemble de ces douze (12) orientations strategiques ont ete prepar6es en
collaboration avec l'ensemble des Partenaires au D6veloppement qui se sont
engag6s lors de !a -2'oinion sectorielle Sant6 de Mars 1999 a les soutenir.
V.   MISE EN CEUVRE DES ORIENTATIONS STRATEGIQUES
12.Pour ameliorer 1'6tat de sant6 de la population en gen6ral et de celui de la mere et
de l'enfant en particulier, la strat6gie du Gouvernement vise a: (i) 6largir I'acces aux
services de sant6, c'est a dire a en accroitre la couverture et l'utilisation; (ii)
am6liorer la qualite; (iii) viabiliser le d6veloppement des districts sanitaires par
l'utilisation rationnelle et efficiente des ressources (personnel, m6dicaments,
finances...) ; (iv) organiser et susciter la participation  communautaire  au
recouvrement des coOts par une campagne soutenue de l'information, 1'6ducation et
la communication.
13.Renforcement .de l'accessibilit6: Pour l'accroissement de la couverture et
l'utilisation des services, la strat6gie est bas6e sur le developpement des districts
sanitaires qui se traduit par la mise en place d'un processus de planification,
d'organisation et de gestion d6centralis6e s'articulant autour des principes suivants:
a)   Le d6coupage des pr6fectures en districts sanitaires et les districts en
zone de responsabilit6 sur la base de concentrations optimales de la
population dans des aires g6ographiques donnees tout en tenant
compte du d6coupage administratif. Le d6coupage en 53 districts
sanitaires  et  657  zones  de  responsabilit6  a  ete  r6alis6.
b)   La sp6cialisation par niveau du systeme entre le 1er 6chelon et l'h6pital
de district qui constitue une r6f6rence pour le 1er 6chelon.
c)   La r6habilitation et la construction des struciufe6 1g6res des soins
comprenant un centre de sant6 avec une salle d'accouchement
d6nomm6e zofie de responsabilit6 et puis un 2eme 6chelon (h6pital de
district) comprenant un plateau technique plus importants (urgences,
radiologie, laboratoire, maternit6, hospitalisation, consultation des
r6f6rences).
d)   L'organisation de la participation communautaire au recouvrement des
coOts de la sant6 par: (i) la cr6ation des comit6s de sante; (ii)
I'utilisation des moyens IEC pour vulgariser le systeme de participation
communautaire.
14.Am6lioration de la qualit6: Le Gouvernement a d6fini un Paquet d'Activit6s par
niveau, tant pour les soins de base que pour les soins de r6f6rence. Ce qui permettra
une utilisation rationnelle des ressourccs. Aussi, un accent particulier est mis sur la
formation et la supervision du personnel ainsi que la disponibilite en m6dicaments
essentiels a des prix abordables sur 1'ensemble du territoire.
94



15.Gestion: La gestion des structures sanitaires (centres de sante et h6pital de
district) sera la responsabilit6 conjointe du service de sant6 et de la Communaut6
(Comit6 de Sant6). Ces comites garantiront aux communaut6s dont ils sont issus, les
soins de base dans la mesure ou elles accepteraient de partager la prise en charge
de certains couts de fonctionnement notamment une part non n6gligeable du cout
des m6dicaments. Les textes de Loi sur la participation communautaire et les statuts
des Etablissements de Sant6 donnent un cadre officiel de mise en ceuvre de la
gestion.
16.Financement: En plus de la participation communautaire,  la strategie
gouvernementale vise d'abord a: (i) rationaliser le financement du secteur afin de
maximiser les 6conomies possibles; (ii) augmenter dans 1'ensemble ledit
financement.
17.Participation des poputaa i is aux couts de la sante par la cr6ation des comit6s de
sant6 dans les zones rurales et les districts: le Gouvernement veillera a ce que les
coOts de participation des populations n'entravent pas leur acces aux soins et ne
compromettent pas le d6veloppement des services par la creation des textes
r6glementaires fixant le prix plancher et plafond dans les centres de sant6 et
h6pitaux de districts.
18.1Les d6penses de sant6 financees par le budget de l'Etat connaissent au cours de
ces dernieres annees une augmentation sensible en terme r6el de 20% chaque
ann6e. Ainsi le budget de fonctionnement hors personnel a meme double en
l'espace de quatre (4) ann6es (1996 - 2000). II continuera a etre execute a au moins
85%.
Cette situation permet au systeme de sant6 de pouvoir mieux mener a bien ses
activit6s, toutefois, en terme absolu, la d6pense par habitant reste modeste 900 F
CFA soit environ 1,2 dollar.
Par ailleurs, la part de ('Etat dans le financement de la sant6 se sifi so en moyenne a
plus de 30% de d6penses totales.
19. Les d6penses de personnel ont connu une augmentation en 2000 de 17% a
cause du degel des avancements. Elles ne doivent par cons6quent pas d6passer
50% des d6penses de fonctionnement totale du Ministere de la Sant6 Publique.
95



20.D6penses de sante financ6es par I'Aide Ext6rieure: on constate que malgr6 un
effort tout a fait substantiel pour le secteur de la sant6, I'Etat ne pourra pas a moyen
terme faire face seul aux besoins, meme rudimentaires en mati6re de sant6. Aussi,
est-il fait l'hypothese dans le Programme d'lnvestissement Prioritaire que l'aide
ext6rieure non se'! 'ment devra se poursuivre mais devra s'amplifier, puisqu'elle
aussi devraHt s'accroitre de 10% par an. L'Etat tchadien prend donc acte de sa
faiblesse financiere et appelle 1'ext6rieur pour financer en grande partie son systeme
de sant6. Selon cette optique, I'aide n'est pas conque comme une substitution
passagere mais comme une compl6mentarite necessaire pour atteindre un certain
6tat de sant6 des populations.
21.Le cadre politique, les plans et les strategies sanitaires ainsi dMfinis doivent
concourir a faciliter la mobilisation des financements ext6rieurs. L'utilisation efficiente
de ces ressources n6cessite leur cooroi'nation en rapport avec celles de l'Etat et des
communaut6s. La coordination de l'aide ext6rieure sera ensuite assur6e par des
examens annuels conjoints Gouvernement-Bailleurs.
22.Personnel: En ce qui concerne le personnel, la mise en ceuvre de la formation
initiale d6centralis6e, la formation des m6decins a la FACS ci-O,L;;>ant la priorit6 du
Gouvernement. Un programme de dotation en personnel pour les structures
sanitaires bas6 sur le plan ae red6ploiement et de recrutement sera ex6cut6 selon
un calendrier bien d6fini.
23.M6dicaments: Afin d'assurer la disponibilit6 des m6dicaments essentiels et
consommables pour l'approvisionnement des formations sanitaires publiques et a but
non lucratif, le Gouvernement a cr66 une Centrale Pharmaceutique d'Achats des
m6dicaments essentiels et g6n6riques. Cette centrale est une institution autonome a
but non lucratif.
Le Tchad dispose maintenant d'un moyen d'approvisionnement en m6dicaments
essentiels et g6n6riques qui doit le mettre a l'abri des ruptures d'approvisionnement
qui sont si prejudiciables a la cr6dibi46 du syst6me aux yeux des populations. Elle
est dot6e d'un statut lui garantissant unc- autonomie financiere et administrative.
24.Patrimoine: Concernant les infrastructures sanitaires, la strat6gie adopt6e met
l'accent sur l'extension de la couverture sanitaire par le d6veloppement rationnel des
centres de sante bas6e sur le d6coupage du pays en districts sanitaires et zones de
responsabilit6 d'une part et d'autre part par l'int6gration des sctivit6s curatives et
pr6ventives avec la d6finition de normes de construction, d'6quipements et de
personnel. Le Gouvernement entend d'abord rendre fonctionnel les centres de sant6
existants et les nouveaux ceitres ne seront construits que lorsque le personnel sera
disponible.
25.Secteur priv6  '.a sant6 : Convaincu que l'integration des priv6s dans le secteur
de la sant6 permettra d'accroltre la couverture de soins, I'efficacit6 et la qualit6 des
services, le Gouvernement a pris des mesures pour promouvoir le d6veloppement du
secteur priv6.
96



A cet effet, le Gouvernement a responsabilis6 les Organisations non
Gouvernementales. (ONG) dans la coordination des activites sanitaires de certains
districts sanitaires dont ces ONGs sont pr6sentes depuis plusieurs dizaines d'annees
et encourage la cr6ation des Cabinets des soins priv6s.
26.En matiere du bien-etre familial, qui releve de plusieurs Ministeres, la
responsabilit6 du MSP porte, plus particulibrement sur la sant6 de la reproduction.
Dans ce domaine, notre strat6gie vise un d6veloppement int6gr6 des services de
planification familiale, I'am6lioration du bien etre de la famille, et tout particulierement
la promotion de la femme par:
* L'6laboration et la mise en ceuvre d'une v6ritable politique de promotion de la
femme;
* La mise en ceuvre de campagnes d'information pour provoquer les prises de
conscience et les changements d'attitudes qui permettront une amelioration
de la condition f6minine.
Suivi et Evaluation de la mise en cuvre de la strategie
27.La mise en ceuvre de la strat6gie sera suivie a l'aide de criteres de r6alisations
durant la p6riode 2000 a 2004 sur la base des indicateurs de sant6 issus de la
r6union sectorielle sur la sant6:
i)   Taux d'augmentation de la couverture sanitaire
ii)   Taux d'augmentation de la couverture vaccinale
iii)  Taux de r6du;;,-, de la mortalit6 mat6rielle et infantile
iv)   Taux de recouvrement des coOts des m6dicaments dans les
Formations Sanitaires
28.Le Gouvernement et l'ensemble des Partenaires du secteur sante 6valueront
p6riodiquement les progres r6alis6s. En cas d'6cart important, une consultation entre
le Gouvernement et les Partenaires permettra de d6terminer les mesures correctives
appropri6es.
CONCLUSION
29.La Politique Nationale de Sant6 ect d6taill6e dans le plan de developpement
sanitaire (actualis6e en juin 1998) et a d6ja connu un d6but de mise en ceuvre par la
pr6paration des interventions des Partenaires au d6veloppement: Projet d'Appui au
Secteur Sante appuy6 par la Banque Mondiale, le 8eme FED, appuye par l'Union
Europ6enne, le Projet de Renforcement des Soins de Sant6 Primaires, appuye par la
BAD, le Projet d'Appui aux Soins de Sante Primaires appuy6 par I'Agence Francaise
de Developpement etc... L'op6rationnalisation de 1'ensemble des mesures devrait
permettre au secteur de la sante d'augmenter le rendement de ses services et de
favoriser la realisation de l'objectif majeur de la Politique Nationale de Sante dans les
meilleurs delais.
97



30.La pr6sente d6claration de politiqu_ s2 sant6 devrait se traduire en actes concrets
notamment un regain de confiance des populations aux services de sant6, leur
mobilisation et leur participation au fonctionnement du systeme, une meilleure
accessibilite aux m6dicaments essentiels, l'utilisation accrue des services de sant6 et
de bien etre familial, I'augmentation de la couverture sanitaire.
31.La Politique Nationale de Sant6 telle que d6crite s'inscrit dans un processus de
developpement sanitaire  '^ng terme. Elle servira de r6ference a 1'ensemble des
interventions nationales et eXterieures en vue de la r6alisation de l'objectif final de la
sante pour tous.
N'Djamena, le  I 7
Pour le Gouvernement de la R6publique du Tchad,
Le Ministre de la Promotion Economique,
du Developpement et de la Cooperation
MAH  AH                     N.-
98



ENGLISH SUMMARY OF LETTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH SECTOR POLICY
The objective of this letter is to lay out the plans, projects, and strategies of the
Government of Chad for the development of the Health Sector:
I. Background
The constitution of the Republic of Chad, Referendum of March 31, 1996,
guarantees among other things, the fundamental rights of the individual to health and
education.
From the political point of view, the right to health implies that:
*  health be placed at the very heart of development
*  a sustainable health system, responding to the health needs of the
population, be developed.
Although the health status in Chad has improved, the maternal and child morbidity and
mortality rates are still very high as are the incidence of transmissible and infectious diseases.
II Main Directions
In view of the importance of health and education in the overall development of the
country, the social sectors will be given priority with regard to financial resources. The National
Health Policy is based on two incontestable facts: (i) the present state of health of the Chadian
population is very poor; and (ii) the state of the health system is very poor.
In addition, priority will be given to the organization of health districts where the Minimum
Package of Activities (MPA) will be provided at the primary level, and the Complementary
Package of Activities (PCA) at the district hospital level.
111. Objectives
The main objective of the National Health Policy is "to provide for the population access
to basic quality services." To reach this objective, four priority areas where action is needed
have been identified:
1. need to increase health coverage by quality primary care services;
2. urgent need for more qualified health personnel;
3. need to improve the management of the health system; and
4. continuation of the efforts to fight endemic and epidemic diseases.
IV. Strategic Approaches
To reach the above-mentioned objectives in the four priority areas, the following strategic
approaches have been identified:
1. Complete operational basic health coverage nation-wide
2. Consolidate MPA and CPA coverage, particularly in regards to reproductive
health
-99-



3. Strengthen institutional capacity at the central level
4. Ensure the availability of qualified health personnel
5. Follow up on the regulation of pharmaceutical sector within the framework of the
National Pharmaceutical Policy
6. Strengthen the process of decentralization in collaboration with all involved
Ministries
7. Community participation in cost recovery
8. Use of contracting services to implement the National Health Policy
9. Maintain and strengthen the actions supporting endemic, chronic disease control
10. Strengthen epidemic control activities, particularly for cholera and meningitis
11. Develop a multi-sectoral HIV/SIDA campaign
12. Align IEC activities to the National Health Policy
V. Implementation of Strategic Activities
To improve the health status of the population in general, and of mothers and children in
particular, the Government plans to: (i) increase basic health coverage; (ii) improve quality of
services; (iii) operationalize health districts; (iv) encourage and assist in organizing community
participation; (v) improve management of the health system; (vi) rationalize health sector
financing; (vii) continue to increase resources for the sector; (viii) train new health personnel; (ix)
support the Pharmaceutical Central Purchasing Agency, in particular in continuing to grant it a
fiscal exemption so that essential drugs will be available at an affordable price; (x)
operationalize health centers where there are qualified health personnel before constructing
new health centers; (xi) develop and put in place a maintenance strategy for health
infrastructure and bio-medical equipment; (xii) promote family planning and reproductive health.
A monitoring and evaluation system, including quantitative indicators is being set up by the
MOPH with the assistance of the partners.
CONCLUSION
The National Health Strategy is part of the long-term health development process. It will
serve as a framework which will be used to define national and international interventions, with
the ultimate final objective of providing health for all.
- 100--



Annex 12
Linkages between
the twelve strategic guidelines included in the National Health Strategy
and the components of the Health Sector Support Project
Strategic Guidelines      Interventions planned in the context of the HSSP
1. Provide complete health   . Consolidate achievements and reinforce health
coverage by gradually putting all districts in the Prefecture of Tandjile
health districts on a fully  In new intervention areas: strengthen and complement
operational and functional   the interventions of other donors, in particular those of
footing.                     the AfDB, EDF and AFD
2. Consolidate implementation   . Reinforce the implementation of the minimum and
of the "minimum" and         the complementary packages of activities in Tandjile.
"complementary" package of    . Put the MPA and the CPA in the new areas of the
activities (MPA and CPA) with a project, in particular in the areas of child and
particular emphasis on maternal  reproductive health
and child health.
3. Build up institutional    . Support to the reforms concerning the financing of
capacity at central government   the sector: Financial and budgetary management
level.                       procedures,. . . Strengthening of institutional capacities
at the central level through the support to the Steering
Committee and through the annual sectoral reviews
4. Ensure availability of     . Support to initial decentralized and specialized
qualified human resources    training of paramedical personnel (including nurse
aides, registered nurses, mid-wives and other health
technicians)
. Support to the management of health personnel
5. Continue with steps under the . Financing of pharmaceutical in order to increase the
national pharmaceuticals policy   working capital of the Central Pharmaceutical
to ensure uninterrupted supplies  Purchasing Agency
of essential drugs.           . Strengthening of the prefectural Purchasing
Pharmacies in project-targeted areas
6. Strengthen the             . Support to the process of deconcentration-
deconcentration and           decentralization at the central, prefectural and district
decentralization process, in  levels
consultation with the ministries   . Support to the process aiming at granting
concerned.                   management autonomy to the district hospitals
. Harmonization of cost recovery mechanisms and
7. Increase community        community participation to the management and the
participation in health services   financing of health services
financing.
101



Strategic Guidelines      Interventions planned in the context of the HSSP
8. Devise mechanisms for      . In collaboration with EU, information and education
procuring contractual services    of all the national actors and development partners on
essential to implementation of   the contracting approach
national health policy.       . Experimentation in project targeted areas with the
contractual approach
9. Preserve and reinforce     . No interventions planned in the HSSP--
accomplishments in the area of
chronic diseases.
10. Step up efforts to control  . Support to the National Program in the project
epidemics, especially meningitis  targeted areas
and cholera.
I1. Continue with a multisectoral . Strengthening of capacities of the NASHCP
approach to STDs/AIDS         personnel at the central level
prevention.                   . Support to the NRH blood bank and provision of self-
blocking syringes in project areas
. Epidemiological surveillance
12. Improve information,     . Support to the IEC Division and to qualitative
education, and communication    research to develop messages.
(IEC) activities in support of
national health policy
implementation.
102



Annex 13
Summary of Donor Interventions by Prefecture
(N.B. : Only geographically limited interventions are included)
Prefectures    Health Distifs  Dnors presently intervening  Donors planning to
intervene in the future
BATHA          Ati              7e EDF + UNICEF 8- EDF + AfDB (2000-2005)
Oum-Hadjer      7 EDF + UNICEF              xc EDF + AfDB (2000-2003)
BILTINE        Biltine          7t EDF                     8"' EDF + AfDB (2000-
2003-2005
Guerda      -      EDF + Swiss Red Cross      EDF + Swiss Red Cross
1999-2000 et 2000-2003)
Iriba           7Di              EDF              (2t 0 0F0-----200--3-)-----------
BET            Faya             7tn EDF                    8"' EDF (2000-2003)
Fada              fEDF                        EDF (2000-2003)
CHARI-         Bokoro           BASE (1999)                HSSP
BAGUIRMI
Bousso          SECADEV (1999-2001/BASE  HSSP
(1999)
Dourbali        SECADEV (1999-2001)         HSSP
Massakory       Bureau d'Appui a la Sante et a  HSSP
l'Environnement (1999)
N'Djamenna Centre                           HSSP
N'Djamena North                             French Cooperation
N'Djamena South
SECADEV
GUERA          Mongo            7n EDF + UNICEF + HSMP    8"' EDF
Bitkine          UNICEF + HSMP                EDF
Melfi           UNICEF + HSMP               8" EDF
Magalme         UNICEF + HSMP               8th EDF
KANEM          Mao              7th EDF + IFAD              HSSP (2000-2005)
Moussoro        7th EDF + IFAD              HSSP (2000-2005)
Nokou            7th EDF + IFAD             HSSP (2000-2005) +
-------     --- -------------------- -----------------------------------Agence Francaise
Rig Rig         7th EDF                     deDeveloppement
LAC            Bol              7"' EDF                     HSSP (2000-2005) +
Agence Frangaise de
Developpment
Ngouri             EDF                      HSSP (2000-2005) + Agence
Fran9aise de Developpement
Logone         Moundou          French Cooperation + World    Cooperation francaise
Occidental                      Vision International
Benoye          French Cooperation          French Cooperation
103



Prefecturs    Health  istricts  Donorspresently intervening  Donor planniing to,
itreeini theftr
|Laokasy         |                           |_|
Logone Oriental Doba             Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Belgium             Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
Bebedjia         BELACD                      BELACD
Bessao           Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Belgium             Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
Gore                                         Doctors without
Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
MAYO-KEBBI  Bongor               Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Belgium             Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
Fianga           Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Belgium             Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
Gounou Gaya      Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Belgium              Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
Lere             Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Belgium             Border/Belgium (2000-2005)
Pala             MSF/B                       MSF/B (2000-2005)
MOYEN-         Sarh              GTZ                         GTZ (1999-2009) + HSSP +
CHARI                                                        DED
Danamadji        BASE (1999)                 HSSP
Goundi           ATCP                        ATCP (1999-2002) + HSSP
Koumra           Doctors without             Doctors without
Border/Luxemburg           Border/Luxemburg (2000-
2005) + HSSP
Kyabd            BASE (1999)                 HSSP
Moissala         BELACD                      BELACD + HSSP
OUADDAI        Abeche            7th EDF                     8u' EDF (2001-2005)
Adre            7f' EDF                      8'" EDF (2001-2005)
Goz-beida        COOPI                       ga EDF + COOPI (i999-
_______________  _________________                           20 0 5 )
SALAMAT        Am-Timan          7e EDF                      8t" EDF + AfDB (2001-
2005)
Abou-Daya        7e EDF                      g 8EDF + AfDB (2001-
2005)
TANDJILE       Kelo              UNICEF + BM                 HSSP + UNICEF (2000-
2005)
Lai              UTNICEF + BM                HSSP + UNICEF ( 2000-
2005
.  Bere          UNICEF + BM                 HSSP + UNICEF (2000-
2005
104



Future Donors' Interventions by Health District and Type of Intervention
(N.B. Only geographically limited interventions are included)
Donors planning   Prefecture       Health Districts        Type of Support
to intervene in
the future
8th EDF         Batha          Ati, Oum-Hadjer         Operating costs,
training,Rehabilitation,
Drugs
Biltine       Biltine, Guereda, Iriba
BET           Faya, Fada
Ouaddai       Abech6, Adre, Goz-beida
Salamat       Am-Timan, Abou-Daya
Guera         Mongo. Bitkine, Melf,
Magalme
HSSP            Kanem          Mao, Moussoro, Nokou,    Operating costs,
Rig Rig                 Construction/Rehabilitation,
Lac           Bol, Ngouri et Liwa     Equipment, Training, Drugs
Moyen-Chari  Sarh, Danamadji, Goundi,
Koumra, Kyabe, Moissala
Tandjile      Lai, Kilo et Bere
Chari-        Bousso, Dourbali, Bokoro,
Baguirmi      Massakory, N'djamena
centre, Est, Nord et Sud*
AfBD            Batha          Ati                     Construction/Rehabilitation/
Equipment
Biltine       Biltine
Salamat       Am-Timan, Abou-Daya
Agence Francaise Lac           Bol, Ngouri et Liwa     Construction/Rehabilitation/
de                                                     Equipment
Developpement
Kanem         Nokou et Rig Rig
Cooperation     Log.Occidental                         Technical Assistance, Drugs
Francaise
Chari-
Baguirmi
105



Donors planning   Prefecture        Health Districts         Type of Support
to intervene in
the future
Doctors without  Mayo-Kebbi                              Operating costs,
Borders/Belgium                                          Construction/Rehabilitation,
Equipment, Drugs
Log.Oriental
Coop6ration      Moyen-Chari  Danamadji, Kyabe           Operating costs,
Suisse                                                   Construction/Rehabilitation,
Equipment and Drugs
Chari-         Bokoro, Massakory
Baguirmi
BELACD           Logone         Beb&djia                 Operating costs,
Oriental                               Construction/Rehabilitation,
Drugs
Moyen chari   Moissala
UNICEF           Guera          Mongo, Bitkine, Melfi,   Operating costs, Equipment
Magalme                 and Drugs
Tandjile       Kilo, Lai, Bere
Batha         Ati, Oum-Hadjer
MSFAL            Moyen- Chari Koumra                     Technical assistance
GTZ              Moyen - Chari Sarh                      Technical assistance
UNDP             Lac            Bol                      Technical assistance
provided by UNV
Logone Occ.   Moundou
Guera          Melfi, Bitkine
Tandjile       Kilo
UNFPA            12 prefectures  All the districts in these    Reproductive health training
prefectures              and technical assistance,
contraceptives
*     These districts are mentioned bin priority order. HSSP will support as many as its
resources will allow: If savings are made thanks to other donors 'interventions, the
HSSP will be able to support a greater number.
106



MAP SECTION









i



IBRD 30840
16                                             20-                                              24'
CHAD / TCHAD
-    -                                         HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
'  Xi    .PROJET D'APPUI AU SECTEUR DE LA SANTE
I X         ao         AazoA  t                                                 0          100         200         300
*f Barda,*                                                                       KILOMETERS
\ ,   a        tar-dt>, '                                                        PROJECT REGIONS
REGIONS DU PROJET
U.   Zoac~r      --                                                               A     HOSPITALS TO BE REHABILITATED
\ Zoual,    ,,                    ->                              N         m     HOPITAL A REHABILITER
1 '  \  {  t   \                        _      CENTRAL HOSPITAL
20'                                     /                 )      /                   B                                       U     HOPITAL CENTRAL
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~~~EXISTING REGIONAL HOSPITALS  20'
\ s t   189    '_  ',~                     *     HOPITAL DE PREFECTURE EXISTANTS
N   | ;    tt.    1/     u 1                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[   EXISTING DISTRICT HOSPITALS
:  f  i  u;   a      '*                                          HOPITAL DE DISTRICT EXISTANTS
|          1J              / t~11                                                  '*-'2O   MAIN ROADS
NIGER  I                                   OaOuingo-Khbir                  ROUTES PRINCIPALES
N    I G    E  R                                                    ;                                                       F ts  SECONDARY ROADS
1 X ' 3      Or,9u,           ,                                     ROUTES SECONDAIRES
RIVERS
jK     4 s BBORKOU  - EN EDI - TIBESTI                               RVEES
Yqn 'Kirdimi   "I-o                                          PREFECTURE CAPITALS
A/n Gala kal3Y'  -  FQy-La rgeau                                    CAPITALES DES PREFECTURES
-                               *    ~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE NATIONALE
|                                                                                        ~..  .PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
Fado              LIMITES DES PREFECTURES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'   o\, ,?   . 7,                                                  FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
6                     .................                     1>               oa........ ',-                     5     t <4-                   -      <1
AN ~~               ~              ~              ~             ~UA 
'1sL2    'S,                  4'                               - ourbali N .            ,boa
Ard", B I   ,I N E       /
iEstine  Garda1,
@dT,c~JTLI ~     ~          BATHA                                >Amo
HarozD1omho          Aelt 
~BirkotISoEro        UD          
t'~~Dedoa      I       ~       Adre                     S    DA
tCERI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ap jen g 'sn GUERA o~\ _f ; T ,he W:rdansu judce, k.I
~~~~                            QU~ J~    ,    ADIDAI  -
$   anl "ba  ~ ~ rT i                     Ai OetHOThisc                                                       map sca Produed by the
4  Dierinciya  Boko                                                                         Map Design UniM of The Worldrooi,k
-12'                           jMPam~I                                 Blen,                                              'Th. bo.... rien,clondoriai
I G  IA   CHARI~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'AGUIRMI   G 111'E                   I ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~PRL 00
*     ',pourbal~~~~~UIRM             G     RfY    A     bou Dee,                                         T6 World Bank G-op, any jedg,nenn
(  Mossenya   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nthe legalisto us of any territory, or
~~~~'B~~~~~~~~~  1       N ~~~~~~~~~~~~ny endorsement or acceptance of
MeIh')            ASIN Ti mci    I                    no~~~~~~~~~~~ch boendorieno.
Gn~~Ieng~~~en~~                                SALNAAT\                                         4
-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
r"""'~~~~~~~~~~H..ARAB REP
ToGo,o,o I  / ,E                                                   Horane  ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,/"  -~~~~~     LIBYA          'OFEYP
Mon9nei9o6%~~~(    ALGERIA   .                     L          i
N   9 A Y a ' 6 Y                                                                                                                         Kf
7'CHAD/
"~~'~N'Djonnnno          SUJDAN
8'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~ ~~~Botog                                                  e      NIGERIA 7r-
CAMEROON           -I-                      TR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4  AFRII 4AFRICAN REPUBLIC
T. NdIo                   CR    U IC.CAMREROON' 
16   ToBosson9oo   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  20   I"""                                 O~~~~~~~~~EM. REFPFCG G'
APRIL 2000



