Page  1
July 2, 2001
His Excellency Mahamat Ali Hassan 
Ministre de la Promotion Economique et 
  du Développement 
B.P. 1159
N’ Djamena, Republic of Chad
CHAD:
Health Sector Support Project (Cr. 3342 CD)
Second Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") for the Health 
Sector Support Project, dated May 10, 2000, between the Republic of Chad (the 
"Borrower") and the International Development Association (the "Association"), as 
amended by an Amendment Letter dated February 28, 2001 between the Borrower and the 
Association.
Further to the discussions held with the representatives of the Borrower, we are 
pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees to the following amendments 
to the Agreement:
1.
Section 3.04 (b) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(b)  By December 31, 2001, at the latest, the Borrower shall enter into 
two contracts, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, with: 
(i)  a technical support agency for the provision of assistance in the 
delivery of health services (under Part B of the Project); and (ii) a social 
communication firm for the design and implementation of IEC activities (under 
Part D 
of the Project), respectively."
2.
Paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (b) of Part B (Strengthening District Health Services in 
Certain Underserved Areas) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement are amended to read as 
follows:
"(a)   strengthening the delivery of quality MPA through: (i) 
implementation of a community-based-strategy designed for immunization 
coverage and pre-natal care; (ii) introduction of standardized protocols for 
essential activities in MPA; (iii) acquisition of materials for nutrition 
activities and vehicles and equipment for mobile teams; (iv) construction and 
equipment of about three health centers and provision of essential drugs and 
medical consumables to such health centers; and (v) completion of the 
construction of three other health centers;
(b)
strengthening the delivery of CPA through: (i)  the introduction 
of standardized protocols for essential activities in CPA; (ii) the provision 
of technical advisory services for the training of personnel for the 
introduction of an autonomous management of the hospitals (budgeting system 
and establishment of operational and management entities); (iii) the 
acquisition of equipment and essential drugs for district hospitals, vehicles 
and 
shelters for referral and counter-referral procedures of patients; (iv) 
the 
construction of housing for selected health workers; and (v) the 
completion of the construction of the Laï hospital; and"
3.
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended by adding the following Part F:
"Part F:           Support to Project Implementation
1.
Support to PCT through the construction of office space.
2.
Carrying out financial audits of the Project, through the provision of 
technical advisory services."
4.
Paragraph (a) of Section I, Part C.1 of Schedule 3 to the Agreement is amended 
Page  2
to read as follows:
"(a)  Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,465,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines."
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by 
countersigning and dating the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this 
letter provided and returning one original, as countersigned, to us.  
Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this letter countersigned by you, 
this amendment shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this 
letter by you.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Robert Calderisi
Country Director for Chad
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Hassan
Authorized Representative
Date:
July 10, 2001
