Report No. PID9429
Project Name                     Slovak Republic-Enterprise and Financial...
Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Private and Financial Sectors
Project ID                       SKPE64542
Borrower                         Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Coordination Unit for Bank and
Enterprise Privatization
Stefanovicova 5
P.O. Box 82
81742, Bratislava, Slovakia
Tel: (421-7) 5958-2033
Fax: (421-7) 5958-2032
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           August 7, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 27, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 25, 2001
Country and Sector Background
The Government of Slovakia that took office in October 1998 inherited an
economy in critical conditions, as a result of four years of poor economic
management. Macroeconomic imbalances were very large, as indicated by
current account deficits of more then 10% of GDP, and structural reforms were
largely unfinished, as indicated by large enterprise losses (more then 9% of
GDP), and extremely large volumes of non-performing loans in the major banks
(around 28% of GDP). The economy had grown by 6% p.a. in the mid-1990s, but
these growth rates were not sustainable, as they were achieved through
massive foreign borrowings and were not underpinned by deep structural
reforms. There is a risk that economy will enter a phase of stagnation.
The new Government has demonstrated its willingness to take the challenge of
restoring macroeconomic stability and preventing a balance of payments
crisis, while also sustaining growth in the long-run. In May 1999, the
Government introduced a package of stabilization measures that was able to
reduce macroeconomic imbalances and stabilize Slovak koruna. The new
Government started to implement an agenda of structural reforms, which is
concentrated in a comprehensive program of bank and enterprise reforms, and
that also includes a program of pension and health reforms, public
administration reforms, and an anti-corruption program.
In early 1999, the Government requested support from the Bank in designing
and implementing its ambitious reform program through an Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL).
The objective of the program is to establish sound microeconomic foundations



for the Slovak economy and open room for a resumption of sustained growth in
the near future. The restructuring program would contain three broad
components: (i) restructuring and privatization of three large troubled
banks; (ii) designing and implementation of a strategy to workout the large
stock of classified claims; and (iii) the improvement in the legal framework,
including improvement of judicial infrastructure.
The Proposed Loan
The EFSAL plays a central role in the World Bank's program in Slovakia. The
Government and the Bank have tentatively agreed on a loan amount of US$350
million which would help the Government finance the fiscal costs of bank
restructuring in the first two years of the program implementation.
Conditions for Board presentation would include: (i) the recapitalization of
the three banks, designed to restore stability in the financial sector and
reduce the risk of a banking crisis. This would be accompanied by the
Government's decision to privatize the three banks, and substantial progress
in implementing the bank privatization program; (ii) the approval by the
Government of a full and coherent strategy for the workout of bad loans, and
the establishment of an agency designed to coordinate the various workout
components; (iii) substantial progress in legal reforms, including passage by
Parliament of improvements in the liquidation track, improvements in the
relevant tax laws, and improvements in the commercial code, as well as
substantial progress in designing a fast restructuring track; (iv) joint
assessment of the status of the banking law, and agreement on an
institutional development program for bank supervision.
Conditions for second tranche release would include: (i) successful
privatization of the three troubled banks; (ii) progress in working out a
significant share of the stock of bad loans; (iii) passage by Parliament of a
new provision to the bankruptcy law containing a fast restructuring track;
implementation of an efficient regulatory framework for bankruptcy
activities, and implementation of a plan for the institutional development of
the court system; (iv) passage by Parliament of agreed upon improvements in
the banking law; and (v) satisfactory progress in implementing an
institutional development program for bank supervision.
Implementation
The proposed EFSAL, financed by the IBRD, would be implemented by the
Ministry of Finance of Slovakia. The tentative Loan amount is US$350
million. The Loan funds will be released in four equal tranches of US$87.5
million each following Board presentation and upon fulfillment of specific
tranche release conditions thereafter. The State Secretary of Finance has
been appointed chairman and an advisor to the Minister of Finance has been
appointed as the EFSAL Program Manager who will ensure overall project
coordination among all agencies involved in the design and implementation of
the reform program.
The program is coordinated with other donors and international organizations,
particularly IMF, EU-PHARE, DIFID and USAID. MoF officials and donors meet
regularly to ensure appropriate coordination.
Poverty Category
-2-



Not Applicable
Environmental Aspects
Category C.
Project Benefits and Risks
The reform actions sought under EFSAL would encourage private and financial
sector development by accelerating reform in key structural areas. The
Government's reform action will help improve business environment, strengthen
judicial and regulatory systems, attract foreign investment and deepen
financial sector reforms.
The risks to the proposed EFSAL arise mostly from the macroeconomic
situation. Insufficient budget provided for bank restructuring and delays in
preparing a strategy for the workout of bad loans could delay the program.
Implementation could also be undermined by weak institutional and governance
capacity.
Contact Points:
Hormoz Aghdaey, ECSPF                            Roberto Rocha, ECCO7
The World Bank                                   The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.                               1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433                             Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2688                   (202) 473-7040
Fax No.:         (202) 522-0005                   (202) 522-2566
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 18, 2000.
- 3 -



