From: The President                                                October 30,2003



     SLOVAKIA -Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan SK-70720

                    Release of the Second Tranche -Full Compliance

1. The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to the Slovak
Republic (the Borrower) was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on August 2,
2001, and became effective on November 8,2001. The EFSAL was designed to support
the Government's enterprise and financial sector reform program (the Program). The
objectives of the Government's reform program in these two sectors were to improve the
stability and efficiency of the banking system, to promote enterprise restructuring through
the workout of bad assets and improvements in the legal framework, to attract foreign
direct investment, and ultimately to facilitate the growth of output and employment in the
longer run.

2. The Loan of EUR 200 million was designed to be released in three tranches. The first
tranche of EUR 58 million was made available to the Borrower upon Board presentation
in August 2001, and was disbursed on December 21, 2001. The arrangements for
withdrawal of the Loan proceeds are described in the Loan Agreement dated September
25, 2001. The conditions for the release of the second and third tranches are described in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.

3. The purpose of this memorandum is to inform the Board that all conditions for release
of the second tranche of the Loan have been met, and that the Borrower is being informed
accordingly. In accordance with Section 2.02 (d) (I) of Article I1of the Loan Agreement,
discussions were held with the Government and the National Bank of the Slovak
Republic (NBS) in May and September 2003 to review the overall progress in
implementing the reform program and progress achieved in fulfilling the conditions for
release of the second tranche. This memorandum summarizes the results of the review
and concludes that the general macroeconomic conditions and the twenty-two conditions
for release of the second tranche have been met.


                                                      James D. Wolfensohn
                                                      President



                                                      By Shengman Zhang

                   Vice President: Shgeo Katsu, ECAVP
                CountryDirector: Roger Grawe, ECCU7
                  Sector Director: Ani1 Sood, ECSPF
                    Team Leader: Marie-Renee Bakker, ECSPF


          SLOVAKIA Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan SK-70720
                         -
                         Release of the Second Tranche -Full Compliance

                                      I.      BACKGROUND

 1.      In the initial period after independence in early 1993, Slovakia achieved impressive
economic results, and seemed poised to become a star performer among transition countries.
However, in the mid-1990s the country experienced severe internal and external imbalances, and
its economic performance deteriorated sharply under an isolationist and dirigiste Government.
During the period 1994-98 Slovakia privatized a large number of enterprises, but the
privatization program was fraught with problems, favoring politically connected parties and
practically excluding foreign investors. The pervasive presence of the State in the banking
system opened room for extensive political interference in lending decisions. The legal
framework for banking, enterprises and capital market activities remained weak, depriving
supervisors, creditors and small shareholders of essential rights. The outcome of these policies
was devastating with large enterprise losses, insolvency in the banking system, large contingent
fiscal liabilities, and the incapacity of the economy to generate growth and employment despite
large investment outlays.

2.      A new reform minded Government came to power in September 1998 and immediately
announced its intention to undertake a comprehensive enterprise and financial sector reform
program to address the above referenced problems, and requested Bank support in the form of an
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. The Government's enterprise and financial
sector reform program comprised four components: (i) restructuring and privatization of the
banking system, centered on the privatization of the three large state banks, but also including
resolution of all troubled medium-sized banks; (ii) substantial strengthening of banking
regulation and supervision; (iii) implementation of a strategy to resolve the large stock of
problem loans taken off the books of the state banks; and (iv) improving the legal framework,
centered on the bankruptcy and collateral regime, and laws dealing with corporate governance.

3.      Several other Bank activities were undertaken in conjunction with the EFSAL to provide
further support to the Government for implementation of the enterprise and financial sector
reform program, including (in that order) an IDF Grant for Bankruptcy Reform, an Accounting
& Auditing ROSC (Report on Observance of Standards and Codes), a Financial Sector
Assessment (FSAP), an IDF Grant for Accounting & Auditing Reform and a Corporate
Governance ROSC. These activities were intended to deepen the understanding and buy-in of the
reforms needed, and to help build institutional capacity to implement new laws and regulations.

4.      During the initial period after Loan effectiveness, rapid progress was made with
implementation of the first two components (bank restructuring & privatization and
strengthening bank supervision). However, as a result of elections held in 2002 and also because
it took longer than expected to design more creditor-oriented legislation, selected reforms
supporting implementation of the last two components (bad loan workout and strengthening

                                                - 2 -


 collateral and bankruptcy laws) were noticeably slower to materialize. Therefore, release of the
 second tranche slipped from its original target date of early 2002 to well into 2003. The new
 Government that came to power in the autumn of 2002 is even more reform minded than its
 predecessor, however, and was able to break through any remaining resistance to reform, and as
 a result the pace of reform implementation accelerated noticeably during late 2002 and early
 2003, also due to Slovakia's pending EU accession in May 2004. Consequently, it now appears
 likely that the third tranche of the Loan can be released in early 2004, ahead of Slovakia's EU
 accession and the original Loan closing date of June 30,2004.

                        11.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

 5 .     Recent m acro-fiscal d evelopments and prospects are broadly favorable and provide an
 adequate basis for further disbursement of Bank adjustment lending. The latest economic
indicators suggest that strong growth is continuing, macroeconomic balances are narrowing,
unemployment is declining, and core inflation remains low. The Fund staff visit in October 2003
gave a strong vote of confidence in the Slovak economy by lauding planned tax changes and
fiscal consolidation and backing the central bank's current monetary stance.

6.       Slovakia has emerged as one of the fastest growing European Union accession countries.
On the background of improved macroeconomic management and a strengthening of structural
reforms since the late 199Os, real GDP growth strengthened gradually from 2000 and reached
over 4 percent in 2002. The curtailment of quasi-fiscal activities and improvement in fiscal
transparency and control, reduction in inflation, restructuring and privatization of public sector
enterprises, lowering of trade barriers, substantial foreign direct investment, and financial sector
reform were all conducive to a more stable and growth-oriented environment.

7.      Despite significant progress, the Slovak economy continued to be hampered by structural
weaknesses and related macroeconomic imbalances. The unemployment rate remained
stubbornly high through end-2002 (both absolutely and by regional standards), reflecting mainly
structural factors including skills mismatches, regional disparities, high social contribution rates,
and a benefit system giving disincentives to work. Fiscal targets were overshot in 2001-02, with
the deficit (ESA9.5 basis) exceeding 7 percent of GDP in both years, and external imbalances
remained high with the current account deficit more than 8 percent of GDP in 2002 (this was
more than financed by record-high foreign direct investment, owing largely to the sale of the
state gas monopoly). Also, growth in 2002 was led by private consumption fueled by strong real
wage and credit growth.

8.      Having won a second term in the September 2002 elections, the Government declared its
intention to address these weaknesses through accelerated fiscal consolidation and structural
reforms covering the tax system, the benefits system, pensions, labor markets, and the judiciary.
A set of new laws is currently in Parliament for this purpose and expected to be largely in place
as o f January 1, 2004. The Government and the National Bank o f S lovakia (NBS) h ave also
announced their intention to meet the requirements for euro adoption in 2006.

9.      Developments so far in 2003 and prospects for next year are encouraging. Output growth
is expected to slow only slightly to around 4 percent in both years, driven in 2003 by a surge in

 exports (especially from the automotive sector) despite the slowdown in Europe, but with
 investment expected to pick-up in 2004. Price deregulation and indirect tax hikes have curtailed
 household consumption and fueled a rise in headline inflation to 8%percent at end-June, but core
 inflation has remained subdued at 3 percent. The unemployment rate fell by 3 percentage points
 in the first six months of 2003 to less than 15 percent reflecting both buoyant economic activity
 and a tightening of eligibility requirements. The targeted strengthening of the fiscal position by 2
percentage points of GDP in 2003 should be within reach assuming continued expenditure
restraint (a shortfall in revenues is being offset by interest savings and cuts in primary spending).
The 2004 budget represents a decisive and welcome step toward further fiscal consolidation,
with a target deficit of just under 4 percent of GDP and including ambitious tax and spending
reforms. On the extemal side, the current account deficit is projected to narrow to under 4
percent of GDP in 2003-04.

 10.     However, important risks remain. On the fiscal side, several legislative changes relating
to the spending reforms still need Parliament approval, and outside the state budget better control
over municipalities and the health sector is needed to avoid further slippages. Monetary policy
continues to face a difficult balance between reducing inflation and containing speculative
capital inflows. The NBS has resorted to foreign exchange market intervention-most recently in
May 2003-and cut interest rates by 150basis points in November 2002 and a further 25 basis
points in September 2003. While core inflation is projected to fall in 2004, inflationary pressures
could re-emerge if wage moderation is not forthcoming or there are second-round effects fiom
ongoing administered price and tax increases.

        111.     PROGRESS AGAINST SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA

LA, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (A)

         Progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program.

The Slovak authorities have largely completed the implementation of their financial and
enterprise sector reform program, as evidenced by the successful restructuring and privatization
of all three state banks, closure of all smaller insolvent private banks, strengthening of bank
supervision, and enactment of new, modem legislation in the areas of banking, insurance and
securities markets, commercial law and secured lending. Additionally, satisfactory progress has
been made towards resolving public sector arrears and bad loans taken off the books of the state
banks. Additional reforms underway in the latter area and steps currently being taken towards
preparation of a new bankruptcy law suggest the program will be fully implemented, and the
third tranche of the Loan released, within the next 3-4 months.

These reforms have contributed to higher economic growth, a reduction in unemployment and
substantial foreign direct investment inflows. The IMF Staff Monitored Program (SMP), on the
basis of which compliance with macro-economic targets and policies was to be judged at the
time of second tranche release was completed in March 2002, and hence is no longer available as

2003 confirmed that the current macro-economic framework is satisfactory. On this basis, and
a reference. However, the IMF Article IVconsultation in August 2003 and staff visit in October

                                                  - 4 -


also taking into account that all second tranche release conditions specified in the Loan
Agreement have been met, it isjustified to release the second tranche of the Loan.

LA, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (B)

     0   Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework, as measured on the
         basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

The 2001 CAS for Slovakia defined the macro-trigger for disbursement of adjustment lending as
satisfactory macroeconomic performance, including fiscal developments in line with medium-
term projections that envisaged a reduction in the primary deficit and containment of the debt-
GDP ratio. In particular, the fiscal deficit in 2001 was to be limited to the 2000 level, with a
further reduction of 0.5 percent of GDP per year in 2002-03. While there were some fiscal
slippages in 2001-02, with a shortfall in the targeted deficit reduction of about 1.5 percentage
points of GDP, the fiscal program was brought back on track in 2003 with an expected
adjustment of 2 percentage points of GDP relative to the outcome for 2002. The budget for 2004
targets a further reduction in the deficit of about 1 p ercentage p oint o f GDP while including
desirable tax and expenditure reforms. This should make it feasible for Slovakia to achieve the
Maastricht criteria deficit limit of 3 percent of GDP by 2006.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (1)

    0   Sale of not less than 67% of the InvestiEna a Rozvojova Banka of the Borrower (IRE3)
        shares to strategic investor or investors, or initiation of alternative resolution procedures,
        satisfactory to the Bank.

The IRB was restructured through a combination of replacement of non-performing loans
(NPLs) with Government bonds and cash capital injection, and subsequently sold to Orszagos
TakarCk PCnzthr Bank (OTP Bank)of Hungary. The sale was consummated in April 2002. The
percentage sold to OTP was 69.56 %.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (2)

    0   Divestiture of state equity holdings in the Vieobecni Uverova Banka of the Borrower
        (VUB), including sale of at least 67% of VUB's shares to private strategic investors.

The VUB was restructured through a combination of r eplacement of N PLs with Govemment
bonds and cash capital injection, and subsequently sold to Intesa of Italy. The sale was
consummated in late 2001. The percentage sold to Intesa was 84.54 %.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (3)

    0   Full compliance of all banks with NEE'S prudential regulations and initiation of
        conservatorship or liquidation for non-compliant banks.

                                                  - 5 -


 Four insolvent problem banks were put into liquidation under bankruptcy proceedings by NBS,
 and their insured depositors paid off by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). For all other banks
 with major prudential ratio violations, corrective actions required by the NBS have resulted in
 general compliance with all applicable prudential rules. A compliance matrix for the whole
banking system, with bank-by-bank prudential ratio compliance information, has been prepared
 and submitted to the Bank by the NBS on a quarterly basis since early2002. These matrices
 confirm that only sporadic ratio violations still occur from time to time in different banks, but
these are mostly related to some impracticalities in selected prudential rules rather than
indicative of any remaining problems or weaknesses in the banks concerned.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (4)

     0   Enactment of a Banking Law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank.

A new modern banking law (No. 483/2001) was enacted by Parliament and came into effect on
January 1,2002.The new law brings the legal framework for banking in line with the EU Acquis
Communautaire.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (5)

     0   Enactment of NBS decree, satisfactory to the Bank, directing the banks to mark to
         market t he v alue of t heir securities in their quarterly statements w henever the m arket
         value falls below the book value.

An amendment to the Accounting Law No. 431/2002 giving the Ministry of Finance the power
to set accounting standards for banks was enacted by Parliament in the autumn of 2002. On
November 13, 2002 the Ministry of Finance issued an implementing regulation (Measure
70/2002), effective January 1, 2003, containing the accounting standards applicable to banks,
including a requirement to mark Government securities to market As under the Accounting Law
as amended only the Ministry of Finance, rather than the National Bank of Slovakia, is
authorized to issue implementing regulations specifying the accounting standards for banks, the
issuance by the Ministry of Finance of the aforementioned implementing regulation meets the
second tranche release condition.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (6)

        Completion of draft amendments to the Accounting Law and other relevant legislation,
        satisfactory to the Bank, introducing non-accrual of interest on assets past due 90 days or
        more.

The implementing regulation (Measure 70/2002) referred to in the preceding paragraph included
a requirement for banks to suspend interest accruals beyond 90 days. However, banks initially
interpreted the suspension requirement to be voluntary rather than mandatory. The Ministry of
Finance therefore amended the regulation effective July 1, 2003 to clarify that suspensions are
mandatory. To further improve the transparency of banks' financial statements, the NBS has
agreed to require banks to fully disclose interest income amounts overdue for less than 90 days

                                                - 6 -


 that are not subject to the reversal requirement, so that financial statement users can adjust
 income data and indicators based thereon.


LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I (C)), Para (7)

     0   Completion of draft amendments to the Auditing Law, satisfactory to the Bank.

 A new audit law (No. 466/2002) enacted by Parliament in June 2002 properly addresses the
 issues related to auditors' independence and ethics code. Article 28 (1) of the new law states that
the Chamber of Auditors will publish a Code of Ethics in conformity with the Code of Ethics
issued by the Intemational Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The Chamber of Auditors in its
 October 2003 annual meeting intends to formally adopt the IFAC Ethics Code, and also to
mandate the use of Intemational Standards of Auditing for all its members.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (8)

     0   Enactment of decrees and regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation
         of the Banking Law.

The process of issuing new NBS decrees to operationalize the new banking law has been
completed, with sixteen regulations requested by the Bank already issued. However, several key
decrees are substantively weak, overly complex or not w ell t ailored t o b anks' actual business
practices. At the Bank's request, the NBS Bank Supervision Division has therefore undertaken a
review of the full set of regulations to determine what can be done to remedy these weaknesses
(for example, issuance of methodological guidelines for regulations already passed that lack
sufficient depth; in other cases revision will be necessary) and in May 2003 submitted an
acceptable remedial action plan to the Bank to be implemented over the course of the next 12-15
months. This action plan has been strictly adhered to by the Borrower, with the revision of
existing NBS Decrees and the issuance of new NBS Decrees, Methodological Guidelines and
Recommendations in line with the time table specified in the remedial action plan creating an
improved framework, and thus, this condition can be considered fulfilled.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (9)

     0   Adoption by the DIF of a satisfactory financing plan.

After pay-off of insured depositors in the four banks put into liquidation by the NBS, the DIF
(Deposit Insurance Fund) became technically insolvent (with an emergency loan provided by the
NBS to finance the depositor pay-offs exceeding its assets), and its liquidity also fell to
dangerously low levels. In response, the Slovak authorities adopted a plan to improve the
financial condition of the DIF comprising the following three elements: (i) raising deposit
insurance premiums levied on banks to the maximum amount allowed under the law, (ii)
proactively pursuing completion o f 1iquidation under b ankruptcy p roceedings o f failed b anks,
with a view to accelerate payouts from the estates of these banks to the DIF, and (iii) submitting
an amendment to the Deposit Insurance Act to Parliament introducing a backstop financing

                                                   - 7 -


 mechanism for the DIF by allowing it to borrow unconditionally from the Ministry of Finance in
 case of need (rather than having to seek borrowing on the market or from Slovak commercial
 banks). The latter amendment has already been enacted (in the summer of 2003). As evidence
 that the plan is being implemented in a satisfactory manner (a third tranche release condition),
 the NBS and the Ministry of Finance will enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
 outlining that any future NBS loans to the DIF will be of a temporary bridge loan nature, to give
 the Ministry of Finance time to go to Parliament to request an amendment to the budget law
 allowing it to raise the requisite cash to lend to the DIF. The MOU will be made public.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (10)

         Submission to the Borrower's Parliament of amendments to the Deposit Insurance Act,
         satisfactory to the Bank.

 See above condition.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (11)

     0   Adoption by the NBS Board of guidelines for conservatorship, satisfactory to the Bank.

The Methodological Handbook adopted by the NBS Board in December 2002 meets this second
tranche condition.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (12)

         Adoption of NBS Board of a Supervisory Development Plan (SDP), satisfactory to the
         Bank.

An SDP was prepared in cooperation with the Bank and formally adopted by the NBS Board in
early 2002.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (13)

         Satisfactory progress in designing policies and procedures for a proactive approach to
        bank supervision.

Satisfactory progress has been made in this area, as evidenced by the adoption by the NBS Board
of a detailed strategy (business plan) for improving bank supervision in May 2002,
operationalization of a new system to rate Capital adequacy, Asset quality, Management,
Earnings and Liquidity (CAMEL) of all banks, stepped up frequency and depth of onsite
examinations, and a reorganization of the Bank Supervision Division in March 2003 that
improves alignment of staff resources with supervisory needs and allows a risk-based approach
to supervision.

                                                - 8 -


LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (14)

    0   Removal of the banking license of the Consolidation Bank of the Borrower (KOB) and
        transfer of KOB's distressed assets to the Slovak Consolidation Agency (SKA)..

The banking license of KOB was removed in early January 2002. KOB's assets and liabilities
were transferred to the -SKA during the latter part of January and February 2002.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (15)

    0   Sale to the private sector or outsourcing to the private sector, through open tenders, or
        writing off of assets after satisfactory due diligence of not less than 30 percent of the
        nominal value of SKA assets.

Resolution actions concerning a nominal value of Sk 39.9 billion worth of claims (exceeding the
30 percent of Sk 128.7 = Sk 38.6 billion threshold) were completed as of September 23, 2003,
comprising asset sales (Sk 21. 3 billion), debt-equity swaps (1.8 billion), repayments (0.7 billion)
and legal write-offs (16.1 billion).

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (16)

    0   Submission to the Borrower's Parliament of a law, satisfactory to the Bank, providing
        for: (a) changes in the tax rules allowing proper tax treatment of debt write-offs and
       debt/equity swaps; and (b) resolution of tax and public fund arrears and including
       provisions allowing forgiveness, compromise, third party management of claims, and
       sale at a discount.

       (a)     An amendment to the corporate tax law was passed in early 2003 allowing full
              provisioning of (non-bank) claims falling due after January 1, 2003 and overdue
               for more than 24 months, and for which there are no bankruptcy or execution
              proceedings (100% provisioning was already allowed for claims on debtors in
              bankruptcy or execution proceedings). The amendment also added debt relief
              provided by creditors in an out-of-court restructuring to the debtor's income, but
              only to the extent the creditor can take a write-off (for claims falling due after
              January 1, 2003 this occurs after 24 months, but for claims falling due before
              January 1, 2003 the creditor can take a write-off of 25%, 50%, 75% or 100%
              respectively after the claim has been overdue for 18, 24, 36 or 48 months). This
              amendment still fell short of what was needed to encourage out-of-court
              restructuring, however, and therefore the Ministry of Finance included in the new
              corporate income tax law currently considered by Parliament a more conducive
              provisioning regime for claims falling due after January 1, 2004 (the new law is
              scheduled to come into effect on January 1, 2004). This regime envisages tax
              deductible provisions of 25% for claims overdue for more than 90 days, 50% for
              claims overdue for more than 180 days, 75% for claims overdue for more than
              270 days and 100% for claims overdue for more than 360 days. As the existing
              bankruptcy law does not allow debt equity swaps, the new corporate income tax

                                                 - 9 -


               law does not include rules for the tax treatment of such swaps. The new
               bankruptcy law currently under preparation will allow for such swaps, however,
               and the Ministry of Finance has agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank a
               policy note on the tax treatment of such swaps, to be introduced through an
               amendment to the corporate income tax law once the new bankruptcy law
               becomes effective (planned for early 2004).

        (b)    Amendments were enacted during 2002 allowing more flexibility (including sale
               at a discount) in the resolution of social security and health insurance arrears.
               However, insufficient measures were taken until recently to operationalize these
               amendments, and new legal obstacles to public sector arrears resolution became
               apparent when selected resolution attempts were undertaken (e.g., tax secrecy
               provisions in the existing corporate income tax law turned out to preclude the
               transfer of tax arrears to third parties, and a 10%of nominal value minimum sales
               price to be received for sale of health system arrears at a discount resulted in the
               failure of a tender offering such claims for sale, as all bids came in below this
               threshold). A series of new laws now in the Parliament will overcome remaining
               obstacles to public sector arrears resolution (e.g., a new law on the health
               insurance system envisages transfonnation of state-run health insurance funds
               into joint stock companies operating under private law, and transfer of all health
               sector arrears to a new workout agency whose sole aim is to collect on these
               arrears, a new tax administration law will allow the transfer of tax and customs
               arrears to the SKA for workout, a new law on the social security system will
               introduce greater flexibility in resolving social security arrears, including arrears
               previously held by the National Labor Office which was recently abolished and
               whose claims were transferred to the Social SecurityAdministration).

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (17)

    0   Elaboration by the Inter-Agency Commission of an assessment of the effectiveness of
        recent amendments to the Bankruptcy Law.

An English translation of a Slovak language report on the impact of the August 1999 amendment
to the bankruptcy law, prepared by a consultant hired by the Ministry of Justice to advise the
Commission, has been received and is considered evidence that this condition has been met.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (18)


    0   (a) Completion of an insolvency report by the Inter-Agency Commission, satisfactory to
       the Bank, including identification of core principles for modernizing the insolvency law
        and for strengthening institutional capacity; and (b) establishment of a drafting team for
       preparation of insolvency legislation.

       (a)    A consultant hired by the Ministry of Justice has prepared a set of principles that
              will form the basis for a new bankruptcy law, using the principles elaborated in
              the Bank's Insolvency and Creditor Rights ROSC (Report on Observance of

                                                -10-


                Standards and Codes) as guidance. The principles were formally approved by the
                Legislative Council of the Government in the summer of 2003 and were
                subsequently posted on the Ministry of Justice's website.

        (b)     The earlier approach under which a Committee comprising representatives of the
                deputy Prime Minister's Office, the Ministries of Finance and Justice and
                bankruptcy judges (the so-called Interagency Committee for Bankruptcy Reform)
                was tasked with preparing a new bankruptcy law has been overtaken by the
                appointment of a reform-minded Minister and deputy Minister of Justice at the
                Ministry of Justice. The deputy Minister has taken active charge of the task to
                prepare a new bankruptcy law, as evidenced by the hiring of a qualified consultant
                to assist with the preparation of a set of principles for the new law, as well as with
                preparation of the new law itself (see also comment on condition 1sa)

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C), Para (19)

         Enactment of decree introducing improvements to the regulation of liquidators and
         trustees, satisfactory to the Bank.

Issuance of Decree 389 of the Ministry of Justice of the Slovak Republic dated September 26th,
2001 meets this condition.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (20)

         Completion of draft amendments to the law regulating collateral, satisfactory to the
         Bank.

A package of amendments to the Civil Code reforming the collateral regime, prepared with
EBRD assistance, was enacted in late summer 2002 and is in effect as of January 1, 2003. A
new modem movable collateral registry is also functional as of the same date.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I), Para (21)

         Submission to the Borrower's Parliament of securities law, satisfactory to the Bank.

A new modem securities law satisfactory to the Bank is in effect as of January 1, 2002. The law
brings the legislative framework for capital markets activity in line with the EU Acquis
Communautaire. In selected areas, further improvement is still possible as outlined in the
International Organization of Governmental Securities Commissions IOSCO) Assessment
undertaken in the context of the Slovak FSAP undertaken in FebruaryMarch 2002, and in the
Corporate Governance Assessment undertaken on a stand-alone basis in the summer of 2003.
LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02 (d) (I) (C),Para (22)

        Submission to the Borrower's Parliament of amendments to the Commercial Code,
        satisfactory to the Bank.

                                              - 11 -

A major overhaul of the Commercial Code was enacted in late 2001. The Bank was of the view
that, although the overhaul resulted in a satisfactory legal fi-amework for corporate sector
activities, in selected areas further improvements were to be considered, and therefore requested
the Government to agree to undertake a stand-alone Corporate Governance ROSC, to identify
and allow further policy dialogue on remaining weaknesses in the corporate governance regime.
The Corporate Governance ROSC was undertaken during the spring of 2003 its findings were
formally endorsed by the Government in July 2003. A seminar is planned for January 2004 to
disseminate the findings of the ROSC.

                                       IV.   CONCLUSION

11.     In view of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the Program
supported by the Loan, and in compliance with the specific conditions of release as described in
Schedule 3, Section I of the Loan Agreement, the Bank has informed the Borrower of the
availabilityof the second tranche of EURO 70 million.

