From: The President                                                       April 21,2004




          SLOVAK REPUBLIC            - Enterprise   and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
                                              (Loan 7072)

                         Release of the Third Tranche -Full Compliance

1.      The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to the Slovak Republic (the
Borrower) was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on August 2, 2001, and became effective on
November 8, 2001. The EFSAL was designed to support the Government's enterprise and financial
sector reform program (the Program). The objectives of the Government's reform program in these two
sectors were to improve the stability and efficiency of the banlung system, to promote enterprise
restructuring through the workout of bad assets and improvements in the legal framework, to attract
foreign direct investment, and ultimately to facilitate the growth of output and employment in the longer
run.

2.      The Loan of EUR 200 million was designed to be released in three tranches. The arrangements
for withdrawal of the Loan proceeds are described in the Loan Agreement, dated September 25, 2001.
The conditions for the release of the second and third tranches are described in Schedule 3 to the Loan
Agreement. The first tranche of EUR 58 million (of the EUR 60 million first tranche allocation, EUR 2
million was paid out upon effectiveness for the fiont-end fee in accordance with the Loan Agreement
stipulation) was made available to the Borrower upon Board presentation in August 2001, and was
disbursed on December 21, 2001. The second tranche, in the amount of EUR 70 million, on a full
compliance basis, was released on November 5,2003 and disbursed on November 10,2003.

3.      The purpose of this memorandum is to inform the Board that all conditions for release of the
EUR 70 million third tranche of the Loan have been met, and that the Borrower is being informed
accordingly. In accordance with Section 2.02 (d) (11) of Article I1 of the Loan Agreement, discussions
were held with the Borrower and the National Bank of the Slovak Republic (NBS) in January and April
2004 to review the overall progress in implementing the Program and progress achieved in fulfilling the
conditions for release of the third tranche. This memorandum summarizes the results of the review and
concludes that the general macroeconomic conditions and the sixteen conditions for release of the third
tranche have been met.

                                                          James D. Wolfensohn
                                                          President


                                                          by Shengman Zhang



                         Vice President: Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                       CountryDirector: Roger Grawe, ECCU7
                        SectorDirector: Fernando Montes-Negret,ECSPF
                           Team Leader: Marie-Renee Bakker, ECSPF

          SLOVAK REPUBLIC-Enterprise and Financial SectorAdjustment Loan
                                            (Loan -7072)

                         Release of the Third Tranche -Full Compliance

 I.      BACKGROUND

 1.      In the initial period after independence in early 1993, Slovakia achieved impressive
 economic results, and seemed poised to become a star performer among transition countries.
However, in the mid-1990s the country experienced severe internal and external imbalances, and
its economic performance deteriorated sharply under an isolationist and dirigiste Government.
During the period 1994-98 Slovakia privatized a large number of enterprises, but the
privatization program was fraught with problems, favoring politically connected parties and
practically excluding foreign investors. The pervasive presence of the State in the banking
system opened room for extensive political interference in lending decisions. The legal
framework for banking, enterprises and capital market activities remained weak, depriving
supervisors, creditors and small shareholders of essential rights. The outcome of these policies
was devastatingwith large enterprise losses, insolvency in the banking system, large contingent
fiscal liabilities, and the incapacity of the economy to generate growth and employment despite
large investment outlays.

2.      A new reform minded Government came to power in September 1998 and immediately
announced its intention to undertake a comprehensive enterprise and financial sector reform
program to address the above referenced problems, and requested Bank support in the form of an
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. The Government's enterprise and financial
sector reform program comprised four components: (i) restructuring and privatization of the
banking system, centered on the privatization of the three large state banks, but also including
resolution of all troubled medium-sized banks; (ii) substantial strengthening of banking
regulation and supervision; (iii) implementation of a strategy to resolve the large stock of
problem loans taken off the books of the state banks; and (iv) improving the legal framework,
centered on the bankruptcy and collateralregime, and laws dealingwith corporategovernance.

3.      Several other Bank activitieswere undertaken in conjunction with the EFSAL to provide
further support to the Government for implementation of the enterprise and financial sector
reform program, including (in that order) an IDF Grant for Bankruptcy Reform, an Accounting
& Auditing Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC), a Financial Sector
Assessment (FSAP), FSAP follow-up Technical Assistance for the creation of an integrated
financial sector regulatory and supervisory agency, an IDF Grant for Accounting & Auditing
Reform, a Corporate Governance ROSC, a Corporate Governance Assessment of Private
Pension Funds, and a GDLN-based training program on private sector accounting & auditing.
These activities were intended to deepen the understanding and buy-in of the reforms needed,
and to help build institutional capacityto implementnew laws and regulations.

4.     During the initial period after Loan effectiveness, rapid progress was made with
implementation of the first two components (bank restructuring & privatization and
strengtheningbank supervision). However, as a result of electionsheld in 2002 and also because

 it took longer than expected to design more credit-oriented legislation, selected reforms
 supporting implementation of the last two components (bad loan workout and strengthening
 creditor rights) were noticeably slower to materialize. Therefore, release of the second tranche
 slipped from its original target date of early 2002 well into 2003. The new Government that
 came to power in the autumn of 2002 has proven to be even more reform minded than its
 predecessor,however, and was able to break through any remaining resistance to reform, and as
 a result the pace of reform implementation accelerated noticeably during late 2002 and early
 2003, also due to Slovakia's pending EU accession in May 2004. Consequently, the second
 tranche of the loan was released on November 5, 2003 and the conditions for the release of the
 third tranche were met as of April 21, 2004, ahead of Slovakia's EU accession on May 1, 2004
 and the original Loan closing date of end June 2004.

 11.     RECENT ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

 5.      Slovakia has emerged as one of the leading reformers and fastest growing European
 Union accession countriesover the past two years. The Government elected for a second term in
 September2002 embarked on an ambitious program of enhancing macroeconomic stability and
accelerating structural reforms. The positive results are clearly emerging in terms of solid and
balanced growth and reduced macroeconomic imbalances. Nevertheless, high unemployment is
easing only slowly, and social instability and general dissatisfaction among voters appears to be
on the rise. This could slow the reform momentumgoing ahead.

6.
direct investment and exports as well as robust domestic demand. The fiscal deficit has been
         Output is growing steadily at around 4 percent per year, supported by strong foreign
reduced from more than 7 percent of GDP in 2002 to less than 4 percent of GDP currently              -
against a backdrop of buoyant tax revenues and compression of expenditures, and the
Government's target of reducing the deficit to 3 percent of GDP by 2006 looks feasible. This
would pave the way for Euro adoption in 2008-09. Meanwhile, the external current account
deficit has contracted sharply to a sustainable level, and core inflation remains low at around 3
percent (although consumer price inflation is significantly higher owing to large administered
price adjustments and increases in indirect taxes). Monetary policy continues to balance a fine
linebetween containing inflationarypressures and upward pressures on the currency arising from
the strong balance of payments. The only dark cloud on the horizon at this time is persistently
high unemployment,with only a weak response so far to the rapid output expansion.A large part
of this is structural in nature, reflecting skills mismatches, high social contribution rates, and a
benefit systemthat creates disincentivesto work.

7.      Significantprogress has been made on structuralreforms in general and fiscal reforms in
particular. A comprehensivetax reform was implemented in the context of the 2004 budget, with
a loweringand harmonization of tax rates (including a flat income tax) and broadening of the tax
base. The pension system is also being reformed, with increases in and equalization of retirement
ages for men and women, a strengtheningof the link between contributionsand benefits, and the
introduction of a fully-funded pillar from 2005. At the same time, the social welfare system is
being overhauled. Health and educationreforms are also being introduced,but remain at an early
stage. Broad public sector reforms are needed to enhance efficiency and service delivery. In
parallel, measures are being implementedto stimulatelabor demand through reforms to the labor

                                                 - 3 -


 code and targeted employment subsidies for long-termunemployed. Smallbusiness development
 is alsobeing encouragedthrough legal and regulatory reforms.

 111.    PROGRESS AGAINST THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA

 LA, Section 2.02(d)(Io(A).

      0  Progress achievedby the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program.

 The Slovak authorities have completed the implementation of the Program, as evidenced by the
 successful restructuring and privatizationof the three large former state-owned banks, resolution
 through sale, closure or corrective action of all smaller problem banks, strengthening of bank
 supervision, and enactment of new, modem legislation in the areas of banking, insurance and
 securities markets, commercial law and secured lending. Additionally, satisfactoryprogress has
been made towards resolving public sector arrears and bad loans taken off the books of the state
banks, and preparationof new laws on bankruptcyand regulation of bankruptcytrustees.

These reforms have contributed to higher economic growth, a reduction in unemployment and

basis of which compliance with macro-economic targets and policies was to be judged at the
substantial foreign direct investment inflows. The IMF Staff Monitored Program (SMP), on the
time of third tranche release was completed in March 2002, and hence is no longer availableas a
reference. However, the IMF Article IVconsultation in August 2003 and staff visit in October
2003 confirmed that the current macro-economic framework is satisfactory. This assessment
remains valid as of now. On this basis, and also taking into account that all third tranche release
conditions specified in the Loan Agreement have been met, it is justified to release the third
tranche of the Loan.

LA, Section 2,02(d)(II)(B):

     0   Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework, as measured on the
         basis of indicatorsagreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

The 2001 CAS for Slovakiadefined the macro-triggerfor disbursement of adjustment lending as
satisfactorymacroeconomic performance, including fiscal developments in line with medium-
term projections that envisaged a reduction in the primary deficit and containment of the debt-
GDP ratio. In particular, the fiscal deficit in 2001 was to be limited to the 2000 level, with a
further reduction of 0.5 percent of GDP per year in 2002-03. While there were some fiscal
slippages in 2001-02, with a shortfall in the targeted deficit reduction of about 1.5percent points
of GDP, the fiscalprogram was brought back on track in 2003 with an adjustment of 2.4 percent
points of GDP relative to the outcome for 2002. Major tax reforms aimed at lowering the tax
burden as well as expenditurereforms (focused on rationalizing the social securitysystem) were
introduced in the context of the 2004 budget. In addition to major reforms of the health care
system, a pension reform with the introduction of a second, fully-funded pillar is being
implemented. The Government targets a fiscal deficit of 3.9 percent of GDP in 2004 and is on
track for meeting its objective of reducingthe deficit to 3 percent of GDP by 2006.

                                               -4-

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (1):

    0   Sale of at least 67percent of Banka Slovakia'sshares to private strategicinvestors.

A stake of 65.06 percent in the bank held directly by the Governmentwas sold to Meinl Bank of
Austria on July 4, 2003. A stake of 6.61 percent in the bank held by the formerly state-owned
Slovenska Sporitelna (Slovak Savings Bank) was transferred earlier into private hands through
the privatization of Slovenska Sporitelnaitself in 2001. Together,these two transactionsmeet the
condition. On April 7, 2004 Slovenska Sporitelna sold its 6.61 percent stake in Banka Slovakia
to Meinl Bank.


LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(I.(C), Section II, Para (2):

        Full complianceof all banks with NBS's prudentialregulations.


compliance information, prepared and submitted to the Bank by the NBS on a quarterly basis
Compliance matrices for the whole banking system, with bank-by-bank prudential ratio

(the latest such matrix being dated end December 2003), confirmthat as a result of the successful
implementation of the bank restructuring and privatization program banks now routinely comply
with applicableNBS regulations.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (3):

    0   Enactment of amendmentsto the AccountingLaw, in substancesatisfactoryto the Bank.

An amendment to the Accounting Law No. 431/2002 giving the Ministry of Finance the power
to set accounting standardsfor banks was enacted in the autumn of 2002. In November 2002, the
Ministry of Finance issued an implementing regulation (Measure 70/2002), effective January 1,
2003, containing the standards applicable to banks. These standardsare very close to IFRS and
as such satisfactory to the Bank. However, the regulation did not require reversal of accruals
already booked as interest income, resulting in income overstatement. Also, banks initially
interpreted the suspension requirement to be voluntary rather than mandatory. The Ministry of
Finance therefore amended the regulation effective July 1, 2003 to clarify that suspensions are
mandatory. Additionally, on March 12, 2004, the NBS disclosure rule for banks (NBS Decree
No. 5/2004) was amended to require banks, with effect of March 31,2004 to fully disclose non-
reversed interest income amounts in their published financial statements, so that financial
statement users can adjust income data and indicators based thereon. Further reforms to the
accounting standards setting process are envisaged to allow Slovakia to comply with the
requirements of the EU Acquis Communautairein this area, and are currently prepared by the
Ministry of Finance with assistance provided by the IDF Grant for Accounting & Auditing
Reform.

                                                - 5 -

 LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II,Para (4):

        Enactmentof amendments to the AuditingLaw, in substancesatisfactoryto the Bank.

 A new audit law (No. 466/2002) enacted in June 2002 properly addresses the issues related to
 auditors'independence and ethics code. Article 28 (1) of the new law states that the Chamber of
 Auditors will publish a Code of Ethics in conformity with the Code of Ethics issued by the
 International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The Chamber of Auditors during its October
 2003 Annual Meeting formally issued the IFAC Ethics Code, and also mandated the use of
 International Standardson Auditingby all its members.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II,Para (5):

     m  Satisfactoryprogress in implementingthe Deposit Insurance Fund financingplan.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (6):

        Enactment of amendmentsto the Deposit InsuranceAct, satisfactoryto the Bank.

As the core measure of its plan to strengthenthe finances of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF),
the Government prepared and Parliament enacted an amendment to the Deposit Insurance Act
(Law No. 118/1996)effective as of December 1, 2001 allowing the DIF to permanently raise
deposit insurance premiums collected from banks, and also extended the existing NBSMnistry
of Finance (MOF) majority on the DIF Board beyond Slovakia's EU accession. The resulting
increasein depositpremium income,coupled with steady growth in the banking system'sinsured
deposit base, has allowed the DIF to reduce its outstanding loan balance to the NBS from its
peak of around 16 Sk billion in late 2001 to 8.75 Sk billion (approximately US260 million
equivalent) as of April 20, 2004. The loan from the NBS is expected to be repaid by the DIF in
full by the end of 2005. Additionally, to clarify that any new NBS loans to the DIF in futurewill

DIF in case of an unexpected new financing need arising, the NBS and the MOF have entered
be of a temporarybridge loan nature and that the MOF will provide long term loan fundingto the

into a Memorandumof Understandingdated April 20,2004 and published on the MOF's website
on April 21, 2004 outlining this distribution of labor between the two institutions. Together,
these steps constitutesatisfactoryprogress in implementingthe DIF financingplan and creatinga
sustainablefinancialbasis for the DIF.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C), Section II, Para (7):

       Completionof a study for structural reform of the DE, satisfactoryto the Bank.

After the above referenced amendment to the Deposit Insurance Act (No. 118/1996) was
enacted, a working group was created comprisingrepresentatives of the NBS, the MOF and the
DIF to study the need for, and the feasibility of, a capital injection by the MOF in the DIF. The
working group concludedthat the DIF does not need a capital injection at this stage of Slovakia's
banking system development, given the dominanceof foreign bank ownership in the sector after
the completion of the bank restructuring and privatization program. Nevertheless, the working

                                                - 6 -


group decided that the DIF should build up its capital base to healthy levels once it has
completed repayment of the NBS loan by keeping deposit insurance premiums at an elevated
level for some time to come, using the rapid ongoing growth of the banking system's insured
deposit base.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),SectionII, Para (8):

     0  Satisfactoryimplementationof the SupervisoryDevelopment Plan (SDP).

Satisfactoryprogress has been made in this area, as evidencedby the adoptionby the NBS Board
of a detailed strategy (business plan) for improving bank supervision in May 2002,
operationalization of a new Capital/Assets/Management/Earnings/Liquidity(CAMEL) rating
system for all banks, stepped up frequency and depth of onsite examinations, and a
reorganization of the Bank Supervision Division in March 2003 that improvesalignmentof staff
resources with supervisoryneeds and allows a risk-based approach to supervision. Additionally,
the NBS has adhered in a satisfactorymanner to the action plan submittedto the Bank to remedy
remaining weaknesses in the new prudential regulations issued after January 1, 2002 to
operationalize the new banking law (No. 483/2001).

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),SectionII, Para (9a).

    0   Sale to the private sector or outsourcing to the private sector, through open tenders or
        writing-off of assets after satisfactory due diligence of not less than 50 percent of the
        nominal value of Slovak ConsolidationAgency (SKA) assets.

The sale by SKA in December 2003 of Sk 42.3 billion worth of NpLs (non-performing loans
taken off the books of the former state banks) to a third party, in combination with legal
resolution actions undertaken by the SKA, brought the total of SKA assets resolved over the 50
percent of Sk 128.7billion threshold set as a third tranche condition.As of end March 2004 total
resolutions had reached 86.48 billion Sk (67.2 percent).

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),SectionII, Para (9b):

    0  Satisfactoryprogress in preparing transactions to dispose of a further 20 percent of the
       nominal value of SKA assetsby December 31,2002.

The actual resolution of 17.2 percent of assets over and above the 50 percent threshold required
under the precedent condition specified in Para (9a), Section I1 of Schedule 3 of the Loan
Agreement, coupled with the submission to the Bank of a satisfactory strategy document dated
November 7, 2003 outlining resolution actions for all remaining assets constitutes satisfactory
fulfillment of this condition.

                                                 - 7 -


LA, Schedule 3, SectionZ.O2(d)(II)(C),SectionII, Para (1Oa):

    0   Enactment of a law, in substance satisfactoryto the Bank, providing for changes in the
        tax rules allowingproper tax treatment of debt write-offs and debt/equityswaps.

The new corporateincome tax law (No. 595/2003) in effect as of January 1,2004has introduced
a favorable provisioning and debt write-off regime for non-bank claims falling due after 1-1-
2004. The new law does not contain any wording on the tax treatment of debt-equity swaps,
because legally such swaps are not yet possible under existing bankruptcy legislation. The new
draft bankruptcy law, submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government on April 15,2004
as a precedent condition specified in Para (1l), Section I1of Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement,
formally introduces debt-equity swaps as a debt resolution mechanism, and the Government
plans to amend the corporate income tax law as soon as the new bankruptcy law comes into
effect to introduceproper tax treatment of such swaps.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),SectionII, Para (1Ob):

    0   Enactment of a law, in substance satisfactoryto the Bank, providing for resolution of tax
        and public fimd arrears and includingprovisions allowing forgiveness,compromise,third
        party management of claims, and sale at a discount.

Amendments were enacted during 2002 allowing more flexibility (including sale at a discount)
in the resolution of social security and health insurance premium arrears. However, insufficient
measures were taken until recently to operationalizethese amendments, and new legal obstacles
to public sector arrears resolution became apparent when selected resolution attempts were
undertaken (e.g., tax secrecy provisions in the previous corporate income tax law turned out to
preclude the transfer of tax arrears to third parties, and a 10percent of nominal value minimum
sales price to be received for sale of health insurance premium arrears at a discount resulted in
the failure of a tender offering such claims for sale, as all bids came in below this threshold).
Enactment of amendments to existing laws (Law No. 461/2003 on Social Insurance as amended
with effect as of February 1, 2004 and Law No. 511/1992on the Administration of Taxes and
Fees as amended with effect as of January 1, 2004) have eliminated remaining obstacles to
public sector arrearsresolution.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),SectionII,Para (1I):

    0   Completionof initial draft of insolvencylegislation,satisfactoryto the Bank.

A new draft bankruptcy law based on the Bank's Insolvency and CreditorRights Principles,was
submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government on April 15,2004.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (12):

   0   Adoption by the Borrower of a concept of a regulatory framework for an effective
       insolvency system, satisfactoryto the Bank.

                                               - 8 -


 A new draft law outlining a regulatory framework for bankruptcy trustees was submitted to the
 LegislativeCouncil of the Government on April 15,2004.

 LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),SectionII, Para (13):

    0   Enactment of satisfactoryamendmentsto the laws regulating collateral.

 A package of amendments to the Civil Code reforming the collateral regime, prepared with
 EBRD assistance,was enacted in late summer2002 and is in effect as of January 1,2003. A new
 modem movable collateralregistryis also fbnctional as of the same date.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (14):

    0   Enactment of a SecuritiesLaw, in substance satisfactoryto the Bank.

A new modern securitieslaw satisfactoryto the Bank is in effect as of January 1, 2002. The law
brings the legislative framework for capital markets activity in line with the EU Acquis
 Communautaire. In selected areas, further improvement is still possible as outlined in the
International Organization of Governmental Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Assessment
undertaken in the context of the Slovak FSAP undertaken in FebruaryMarch 2002, and in the
Corporate GovernanceAssessment undertaken on a stand-alonebasis in the summerof 2003.

LA, Schedule 3, 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (15):

       Enactment of amendments to the Commercial Code, in substance satisfactory to the
       Bank.

A major overhaul of the Commercial Code, satisfactoryto the Bank, was enacted in late 2001.
Notwithstanding the fact that the overhaulmet the condition, the Bank communicated its view to
the Government that in selected areas further improvements could usefully be considered to
bring Slovakia's corporate governance regime fully in line with emerging international best
practice standards, and for this purpose suggested to undertake a stand-alone Corporate
Governance ROSC. The Government agreed to this suggestion and a Corporate Governance
ROSC was undertaken during the spring of 2003. Its findings were formally endorsed by the
Governmentin July 2003 and a seminarwas held in February2004 to disseminatethe findingsof
the ROSC.

LA, Schedule 3, Section 2.02(d)(II)(C),Section II, Para (I 6):

    0  Enactment of a law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank, strengthening the legal,
       budgetary and operationalautonomyof the securitiesand insurancemarket regulator.

Met through Act 9612002 on the Supervision over the Financial Market and on the Change and
the Amendment of Certain Acts, effective as of April 1, 2002. Ideally, the Financial Markets
Authority (FMA) should also have the power to issue regulations (this power now rests with the
MOF). This will be possible afterthe planned merger of the FMA with the NBS by 2006. Further

                                                - 9 -


improvements could also be made in salary levels for FMA staff to allow it to attract and retain
sufficiently qualified people. This issue also likely will be resolved through the planned merger
of the FMA with the NBS.


IV.    CONCLUSION

8.     In view of the overall performance and progresswith the implementationof the Program
supportedby the Loan, and in compliancewith the specific conditions of release as described in
Schedule3, Section I1of the Loan Agreement,the Bank has informed the Borrowerof the
availabilityof the third tranche of EUR 70 million.

