                   Document of
                 The World Bank




                                               Report No: 31073

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (TF-25813 FSLT-70720)

                       ON A

                      LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 200 MILLION

                     TO THE

                SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                     FOR AN

ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                 December 30, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Slovak Crown (SKK)
                           1 SKK = US$ 0.035
                           US$ 1 = 28.572 SKK

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
            AAA - Analytical and Advisory Activities
            CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
            DPF - Deposit Protection Fund
            EFSAL - Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
            FMA - Financial Market Authority
            FSAP - Financial Sector Assessment Program
            IDF - Institutional Development Fund
            IFAC - International Federation of Accountants
            IFRS - International Financial Reporting Standards
            IMF - International Monetary Fund
            IRB - Investicna Rozvojova Banka
            ISA - International Standards of Auditing
            KBB - Konsolidacna Banka Bratislava
            MOF - Ministry of Finance
            MOJ - Ministry of Justice
            NBS - National Bank of Slovakia
            NPL - Non-Performing Loan
            ROSC - Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
            SKA - Slovenska Konsolidacna (Agency)
            SLSP - Slovenska Sporitelna
            SMP - Staff Monitored Program
            SBS - Strategy of Banking Supervision
            SDP - Supervisory Development Program
            VUB - Vseobecnna Uverova Banka
            QAG - Quality Assurance Group

                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director       Roger Grawe
                Sector Director      Fernando Montes-Negret
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Marie H.R. Bakker

                                   SLOVAK REPUBLIC
           ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P064542                                                  Project Name: EFSAL
Team Leader: Marie H. R. Bakker                                      TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 4, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: EFSAL                                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-25813; FSLT-70720
   Country/Department: SLOVAK REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (57%); General industry and trade sector (32%); Capital
                            markets (6%); Other industry (3%); General finance sector (2%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Standards
                            and financial reporting (P); Regulation and competition policy (P);
                            International financial architecture (S); Tax policy and
                            administration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/21/2000                                     Effective: 11/08/2001                11/08/2001
     Appraisal: 03/19/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/02/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance (MOF)/National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) and deputy Prime
                                           Minister's Office
                      Other Partners:      IMF, EU, bilateral agencies

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Roger W. Grawe                                 Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Marie H.R. Bakker                              Roberto Rocha and Hormoz Aghdaey
ICR Primary Author:             Marie H.R. Bakker and Irena
                                Tchoukleva


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
While the EFSAL was not reviewed for Quality at Entry or Quality of Supervision, the Bank's
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did undertake a Country AAA Assessment for Slovakia in late

2003/early 2004. This assessment, rated Higly Satisfactory, highlighted how well the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy, lending and AAA programs for Slovakia were designed and
integrated, and commented extensively on the strategic importance of the EFSAL and the linkages
between this operation and other Bank program components.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the loan was to support the comprehensive program of financial and
enterprise sector reforms of the new Slovak Government that came into office in 1998. Under the
previous Government, the country's economic performance had weakened sharply as a result of
dirigiste and nationalistic policies. The lending activities of the state banks were subject to
political interference and the enterprise privatization program favored politically connected
parties, practically excluding foreign investors. The resulting deterioration in Slovakia's fiscal and
current account balances and insolvency of the banking system, coupled with low levels of FDI
and lack of progress in modernizing the legal system for private and financial sector activity,
threatened to derail the country's accession to the OECD and the EU. Under these circumstances,
the new Government embarked on the ambitious financial and enterprise sector reform program
supported by the EFSAL. With this program the Government sought to: restore the banking
system to financial and operational health and efficiency; improve bank supervisory capacity;
promote restructuring of the enterprise sector through workout of bad assets; modernize the legal
and regulatory framework for the financial and enterprise sectors; attract foreign investment; and
ultimately contribute to sustained macro-economic stability and growth of output and employment
in the longer run.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The Government's financial and enterprise sector reform program contained four main
components:
(i) restructuring and privatization of the banking system, centered on the three large state banks,
but also including the resolution of all troubled small- and medium-sized banks;
(ii) substantial strengthening of bank regulation and supervision;
(iii) full implementation of a strategy to work out the large stock of non-performing loans (NPLs)
taken off the books of the state banks; and
(iv) substantial improvements in the laws and regulations for financial and private sector activity,
centered on financial market legislation, bankruptcy and secured lending, accounting & auditing
and corporate governance.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The EFSAL was identified in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Slovakia (CAS,
discussed by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on February 6, 2001), as the linchpin
adjustment operation in support of the Government's efforts to put Slovakia back on a path



                                                  - 2 -

towards macro-economic stability and sustainable economic growth, and timely EU accession
after the country's economically and politically problematic performance in the late 1990s.

Simultaneously with the EFSAL being appraised and negotiated, and to create a suitable
macro-economic environment for reform implementation, the Government agreed to enter into a
Staff Monitored Program (SMP) with the IMF. The SMP assisted the Government in the
promotion of sound macroeconomic policies, and also provided additional international support
for its financial and enterprise sector reform efforts (the IMF's SMP included several structural
benchmarks in these two sectors that mirrored EFSAL tranche release conditions). Importantly,
the PHRD Grant for preparation of the EFSAL allowed the Government to hire several external
advisors to provide advice in specific policy areas. Other agencies (among others DFID and EU
PHARE) also made important contributions in this respect by financing advisors dedicated to
work on the restructuring of state banks and bad asset resolution by the Konsolidacna Banka
Bratislava (KBB) and the SKA (Slovenska Konsolidacna (Agency). One of the advisors also
served as a permanent member of the Steering Committee created by the Government for
program implementation. The advisors provided strong technical input for the implementation of
the reforms.

The IMF also financed the placement of a Resident Banking Supervision Advisor in the Bank
Supervision Department of the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS), to ensure expeditious and high
quality implementation of measures to bring bank regulation and supervision up to EU and
international best practice standards. Intensive joint implementation review missions by the Bank
and the Fund, reinforced by further diagnostic work and analysis undertaken in the context of the
2002 FSAP (Financial Sector Assessment Program), simultaneously ensured maximum
international support and attention to program implementation. The SMP formally ended in June
2002, and as the macro-economic framework had largely been stabilized by that time, the program
was not renewed. The IMF nevertheless continued to stay involved until the end of the EFSAL
implementation period (June 2004) through frequent economic consultations, Article IV
consultation missions and the continued presence of the Banking Supervision Advisor in the NBS
until the end of 2003.

Additionally, at the outset of program implementation, the Bank provided Slovakia with an IDF
Grant for Bankruptcy Reform which financed the hiring of outside advisors to assist the Ministry
of Justice (MOJ) with preparation of new bankruptcy legislation and design of a regulatory
framework for bankruptcy trustees. This grant allowed the Ministry to access world-class
expertise in this area and prepare new legislation in line with international best practice standards.

Also, approximately six months into the EFSAL implementation period, the Bank provided a
second IDF Grant, for Accounting & Auditing Reform, to assist with the implementation of the
recommendations contained in the November 2001 Accounting & Auditing ROSC (Report on
Observance of Standards and Codes) and to underpin the reform efforts in this area undertaken as
part of the EFSAL program and in preparation for EU accession.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:



                                                  - 3 -

The EFSAL fully achieved all of its core objectives. The three dominant state banks were
restructured and successfully privatized, all smaller problem banks were resolved through either
closure, capital injections/sales to strategic foreign partners or prompt corrective action programs,
the bank supervision function of the NBS was substantially strengthened, the KBB was merged
into the SKA and the SKA successfully resolved nearly all of the non-performing loans (NPLs) it
inherited from the state banks -- an impressive achievement compared with the track record of
asset management companies in most other countries that have experienced financial crises -- and
the key laws affecting financial and enterprise sector activity were modernized (e.g., the banking
and securities laws, the commercial code, the accounting and auditing laws and the collateral law)
or developed to the point were they could be submitted to Parliament (the bankruptcy law and the
law on regulation of bankruptcy trustees - which were both subsequently approved by Parliament
on December 9, 2004).

In several areas, the Government's reform efforts went beyond the actions required under the
EFSAL which by itself already contained quite a large number of conditions for tranche release at
the Government's explicit request, with a view to use the EFSAL as a vehicle to support the
domestic reform momentum. Examples include: the creation of a new, modern infrastructure for
secured lending (centralized, electronic collateral registry developed in parallel with the new
collateral law and fully supportive of its implementation); overhaul of the company registration
law and cleaning up of the company registry to ensure registration information is current and
accurate; the adoption of new, modern insurance legislation; the recapitalization and privatization
of the former monopoly state insurer, Slovenska Poistovna; the adoption of a new, simplified
corporate tax regime which introduced a flat 19 percent corporate and personal income tax and
greatly simplified and strengthened tax administration; implementation of a comprehensive
pension reform effort that introduced a funded second pillar private pension system and
strengthened oversight over the voluntary third pillar; and reform of social benefits legislation and
modernization of the Labor Code that made hiring and firing of workers more flexible and better
adapted to the current economic needs.

It is evident that both the sectoral objective of restoring the financial sector to health (Table 1)
and the ultimate macro-economic objectives of restoring macro-economic stablity and economic
growth (Table 2) have been achieved. In the aftermath of the bank restructuring effort, confidence
in the banking system and in the money markets was re-established as evidenced by increased
monetization (M2 and M3 growth), and bank profitability improved sharply (with both return on
equity and return on assets moving from negative into positive territory and reaching levels
customarily seen in more developed financial systems). Bank intermediation margins also
decreased sharply from 4.5% in 2000 to 2.5% in 2003 and are now broadly in line with EU levels,
and the ratio of non-performing loans (NPLs) as percent of total loans continues to improve.
Domestic bank lending to the private sector is recovering quickly from a low base (after NPL
removal) and has displayed healthy growth during the last two years (22.2 % and 10.3% in 2002
and 2003 respectively). While capital markets remain small in Slovakia due to the small size of the
economy, there has been noticeably more activity during the last few years. As concerns the
business climate also, it is clear that the EFSAL's objective of modernizing the legal and
regulatory framework for private sector activity has been accomplished - with the Bank's Doing
Business Report 2005 ranking Slovakia as the leading reformer and among the top 20 economies



                                                  - 4 -

worldwide in terms of ease of doing business.

SLOVAKIA
Table 1 - Financial Sector/Flows Indicators
                                                     1998          1999         2000       2001    2002     2003
1. Money and quasi money (M2) as % of GDP             58.5          58.6         60.2       63.1   62.7      62.7
2. Liquid liabilities (M3) as % of GDP                59.9          61.9         64.4       66.7   63.9      65.6
3. Bank Credit to pvt sector in mln US$           11,963.0      11,143.0    10,418.0     7,859.0 9,606.0 10,595.0
4. Bank Credit to pvt sector in % of GDP              53.9          54.7         51.5       37.6   39.7      32.6
5. Bank Credit to pvt sector growth (in %)               ...         -6.9        -6.5      -24.6   22.2      10.3
6. Return on equity of banking sector (%)            -13.4         -36.5         25.2       22.7   29.4      22.7
7. Return on assets of banking sector (%)             -0.5           -2.3         1.5        1.0    1.2      1.0
8. Deposit interest rates (%)                         17.5          13.8          6.2        5.9    4.5      4.6
9. Lending interest rates (%)                         18.9          16.4         10.7        8.8    7.5      7.2
10. Spread btwn lndg and dpst rates                    1.4           2.6          4.5        3.0    3.0      2.5
11. NPLs as a % of total loans                        44.3          32.9         26.2       24.3   11.2      9.6
12. Stock mkt capitalization mnl US$                 965.0         723.0        742.0      538.0 1,900.0 2,779.0
13. New bond issues on domestic                    1,954.6       1,482.7      2,329.5    4,435.4 1,357.4 2,861.1
    market in mln US$
14. Corporate equity raised on domestic              256.1          47.6        175.4      208.5   121.1   153.2
    market in mln US$


Notes:
8) SKK deposits, n 30-days, Dec 31
9) Credits, S-T new loans, n, Dec 31


Source: IMF, World Bank, ECB, Eurostat, National Bank of Slovakia, Bratislava Stock Exchange




Slovakia's macroeconomic performance clearly also has been improving considerably during and
since EFSAL implemementation, indicating that the benefits of the financial and enterprise sector
reform efforts extend beyond their more narrowly defined sectoral impact. This is evident in a
sharp improvement in Slovakia's sovereign credit ratings (which improved by multiple notches for
both foreign and local currency denominated debt) and decline in Euro interest rate spreads (from
over 250 basis points in 2000 to less than 10 basis points in late 2004). Nominal GDP growth
accelerated from 1.5% in 1999 to over 4 % annually in 2002-2003. Beginning in 2001 the
unemployment rate started falling from 19.2 % to 17.1 % in 2003. While this is not by itself a
sharp decline, it is probable that without the substantial restructuring of the enterprise sector
undertaken in the context of the EFSAL the unemployment rate would have increased further. In
fact, in recent years Slovakia has become one of the top destinations for foreign direct investment
in Eastern Europe and has been very successful in creating new jobs through green field
investments by foreign investors especially in the car manufacturing industry (FDI inflows reached
almost 17% of GDP in 2002 and did not come only from privatization). After reaching a low of
3.3% in 2002, the inflation rate increased to around 8.5% in 2003 as a consequence of one time
adjustments to administered prices and higher indirect taxes, while core inflation remains low.
Although the current account balance remains negative, it improved sharply in 2003 as a result of
rapid growth in exports. The impressive export performance is the result of the earlier FDI
inflows. The fiscal balance (as per ESA 95) improved sharply from ­12.3% in 2000 to -3.6% in



                                                            - 5 -

2003. This is an impressive turnaround by any means. General Government debt decreased from
48.7% of GDP in 2001 to 42.8 % of GDP in 2003 ­ also reflecting the use of privatization
receipts to retire government debt.

SLOVAKIA
Table 2 - Macroeconomic Indicators


                                               1998       1999       2000     2001     2002     2003  2004* 2005* 2006* 2007*
1. GDP (in mln Current US$)                22,179.1   20,380.7    20,218.2 20,887.3 24,184.1 32,518.8
2. GDP per capita (US$)                     4,114.1    3,777.7     3,750.4  3,883.1  4,496.0  6,043.3
3. GDP growth (annual %)                        4.2         1.5        2.0     3.8      4.4      4.2    4.7   4.5   5.1
4. Exchange Rate (SKK to US$)                  35.2       41.4       46.2     48.3     45.3     36.8
5. Unemployment Rate (LFS)                     12.5       16.2       18.6     19.2     18.5     17.1   17.2  16.6  16.2
6. Exports Growth                              12.8         5.0      13.7      6.3      5.5     22.6   13.3   7.8  12.1
7. Fiscal Balance (ESA95), % of GDP             -3.8       -7.1      -12.3     -6.0     -5.7     -3.6
8. Inflation Rate (CPI)                         6.7       10.6       12.0      7.3      3.3      8.5    7.8   3.3   2.8
9. Current Account Balance (mln US$)        -1,982.0    -979.7     -701.6  -1,746.4 -1,924.1  -279.8
10. Current Acct Balance (% of GDP)             -8.9       -4.8       -3.5     -8.4     -8.0     -0.9  -1.1  -1.6  -0.3
11. General Government Debt (US$)           7,540.9    9,619.7    10,088.9 10,172.1 10,471.7 13,917.0
12. General Gvernment Debt (% of GDP)          34.0       47.2       49.9     48.7     43.3     42.8
13. S&P Foreign Currency Rating                 BB+       BB+         BB+     BBB-     BBB      BBB   BBB+
14. S&P Domestic Currency Rating              BBB+       BBB+       BBB+        A-       A-       A-     A-
15. Eurospread                                   ...         ...     252.3    118.7    56.5      8.9   7.57
16. FDI Net Inflows (US$ mln)                 537.4      761.3     1,904.4  1,549.2  4,118.4    549.2


Notes:
6) Real growth from national accounts
*Forecasts
13) End November
14) Early December


Source: National Bank of Slovakia, IMF, World Bank, Eurostat, Bloomberg




The intensive and highly successful reform efforts in the financial and enterprise sectors have also
resulted in Slovakia being ranked as the top reformer, and one of the 20 most business friendly
countries in the world in the Bank's Doing Business 2005 Report. Also, with the formal opening
of EU accession negotiations (on October 13, 1999) and entry into the OECD (on December 14,
2000), Slovakia restored its credibility with the international community and subsequently
achieved its objective of being among the first wave of Eastern European transition economies to
achieve EU member status.

4.2 Outputs by components:
I . Bank Restructuring and Privatization

           A. Three Large State Banks

The three dominant former state banks - Vseobecnna Uverova Banka (VUB-the former state
industrial bank), Investicna Rozvojova Banka (IRB-the former state investment and development
bank) and Slovenska Sporitelna (SLSP-the former state savings bank) were successfully



                                                            - 6 -

restructured and privatized. As a first step, the Government increased the equity capital of the
three banks (VUB-8.9 billion SKK, IRB-5.7 billion SKK and SLSP-4.3 billion SKK). The
majority of the non-performing loans (NPLs) of the banks were subsequently taken off their
books and replaced by marketable Government securities (two classes of securities were
issued-one with a fixed coupon and one with a variable rate tied to BRIBOR). The NPLs were
transferred in two stages to the KBB (another state bank dating from former Czechoslovak times)
and the SKA (a new asset management company created to assume KBB operations and resolve
all NPLs in a predominantly decentralized, market-based manner). In a first round, VUB
transferred loans with a nominal value of 45 billion SKK, IRB-6.5 billion SKK and SLSP-22.8
billion SKK. Later the state assumed more NPLs of VUB and SLSP with a nominal value of 21.3
and 9.6 billion SKK, respectively. In total, the cost of the large state bank restructuring effort was
around US$2.6 billion equivalent, representing approximately 12% of 2001 GDP - in line with or
less than the comparable cost in other transition economies.

The transfer of bad loans was followed by a search for strategic investors, which would buy
majority stakes in the state banks. J.P. Morgan acted as the Government's adviser for the sale of
VUB and SLSP, while IB Austria advised on the privatization of IRB. In a first step, IFC and
EBRD bought stakes in VUB and SLSP, respectively, in an effort to facilitate the subsequent sale
to strategic investors. In mid 2001, after winning a competitive tender, Banca Intesa of Italy
acquired VUB (94.47%). In late 2001, after a competitive tender the Government approved the
sale of IRB to OTP Bank of Hungary (92.26%). SLSP was also privatized in late 2001 through a
competitive tender won by Erste Bank of Austria (87.18%).

KBB's banking license was removed and KBB was merged into the SKA during late 2001/early
2002. SKA has since resolved around 90 percent of its NPL portfolio, and plans to sell the rest of
bad assets it acquired during the bank restructuring process in the near future.

        B. Smaller Banks

In 2000, four insolvent banks were closed and put into liquidation (AG Banka, Slovenska
Kreditna Banka, Dopravna Banka and Devin Banka). The insured depositors in these banks were
paid off by the Deposit Protection Fund (DPF), the entity tasked with administering the deposit
insurance scheme. Five other banks took measures to strengthen their financial condition and
management either through corrective action (Postova Banka) or sale to new strategic owners
(Unicredito Italiano of Italy acquired Polno Banka (51.23%), Dexia of France acquired PKB
(78.4%), the Bank fur Arbeit und Wirtschaft Aktiengesellschaft Wien (BAWAG) of Austria
acquired Istro Banka (82%), and Meinl Bank AG of Austria acquired Banka Slovakia (60.07%)).

As a result of the restructuring of both the dominant state banks and troubled smaller banks,
Slovakia's banking system now is predominantly owned by reputable foreign banks, with all banks
meeting minimum capital adequacy and other prudential requirements.

        C. Deposit Insurance

The financing required to pay the insured depositors in the four failed banks substantially



                                                  - 7 -

exceeded the funds of the DPF, rendering it technically insolvent (as well as illiquid), and the DPF
had to take a non-interest bearing loan from the NBS with unlimited maturity to enable the
pay-off. As the core measure of its plan to strengthen the DPF's finances, the Government
prepared and Parliament enacted an amendment to the Deposit Insurance Act effective as of
December 2001. This amendment allowed the DPF to permanently raise deposit insurance
premiums collected from banks. Furthermore, the amendment extended the existing NBS/MOF
majority on the DPF Board beyond Slovakia's EU accession, precluding banks to vote for a
premium reduction before the DPF's finances are restored to health and a cushion of 1% of
insured deposits is build up. To clarify that future NBS loans to the DPF will be of a temporary
bridge loan nature and that the MOF will provide funding from the budget to meet unexpected
new financing needs, the NBS and the MOF also entered into a Memorandum of Understanding in
April 2004 describing their respective responsibilities in this area. The memorandum has been
published on the MOF and NBS websites.

As a result of vibrant growth of the insured deposit base in the aftermath of the bank restructuring
effort, the DPF had already paid off a large part of its NBS loan by the EFSAL closing date (full
payoff is expected by end 2007, and the build-up of the cushion is expected to be completed by
end 2008).

II. Substantial Strengthening of Bank Regulation and Supervision

        A. Overhaul of Banking Legislation

A new Banking Law came into effect on January 1, 2002. This law significantly expanded the
regulatory and supervisory powers of the NBS, introduced clear definitions of allowable activities
and prudential regulations for banks in line with EU banking sector directives and Basle capital
rules, strengthened bank corporate governance and introduced efficient problem bank and bank
failure resolution mechanisms.

The Banking Law was assessed as satisfactory by the 2002 FSAP. In addition, based on the FSAP
recommendations and practical experience gained during the first years of use (as explained
below), the law was subsequently amended to further strengthen the legal foundation for
regulation and supervision of banks and achieve full harmonization with the EU Acquis
Communautaire.

In the period after enactment, the NBS issued sixteen new decrees (prudential regulations) to
operationalize the new law. Upon review, however, several of these decrees were found to be too
legalistic and impractical. With the help of the resident Bank Supervision Advisor and the World
Bank, the NBS prepared a plan with a defined time table to address these weaknesses. The plan
also identified new decrees to be drafted and issued to ensure risk-based supervision and to
address additional topics not initially referenced in the banking law (e.g., consolidated supervision,
interest rate risk management). The plan proposed using four different methods to correct the
weaknesses: namely, issuing methodological guidelines and recommendations to clarify the
subject matter, amendments to existing decrees, amendments to the banking law, and issuing new
decrees once the banking law amendment has been passed. Most of the methodological guidelines



                                                 - 8 -

and recommendations, amendments to existing decrees, and banking law amendments were
completed during 2003 and became effective on January 1, 2004. The new decrees required by
the Banking Law amendment were drafted during 2004 and come into effect on January 1, 2005.

        B. Management Changes in NBS

Key management and staff changes were made at the NBS at the outset of EFSAL
implementation; a new Vice Governor responsible for bank supervision, coming from the private
banking sector, and a new head of bank supervision, formerly the head of the Deposit Protection
Fund (DPF), were appointed. A resident Bank Supervision Advisor, funded by the IMF, was
made available to assist the new leadership team in its task of strengthening the overall quality of
bank regulation and supervision. A major reorganization of the Banking Supervision Division was
completed in March 2003. The new organization, with more focused departments and task
oriented groups, has made significant progress, not only in implementing the Supervisory
Development Plan (SDP-see below), but also in ensuring that all banks are supervised
pro-actively.

        C. Supervisory Development Plan (SDP)

With the assistance of the World Bank, a multi-year Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) was
developed and approved by the NBS Board in late 2001. The SDP aimed to ensure that the NBS's
Bank Supervision Department envisions its role as a global financial sector participant, committed
to raising its standards and procedures to an international, best practice level. Subsequently, as a
result of the enactment of the new banking law and drawing on the findings of the FSAP and the
World Bank's February 2002 EFSAL implementation review, a revised and improved SDP was
submitted and approved by the NBS Board in March 2002. The quality of the SDP was further
enhanced by the preparation and issuance of a companion document ­ the Strategy of Banking
Supervision (SBS) - in May 2002. The SBS addressed different areas of banking supervision,
including licensing requirements, planning the examination of banks, training, management
information systems, risk rating systems, troubled bank resolution, communication strategy with
stakeholders, etc. To monitor and enable judgement of the quality of SDP/SBS implementation,
the Banking Supervision Division prepared, with the assistance of its resident advisor, regular
implementation status reports as well as a chart-based summary overview, showing percentage
completion of all tasks, remaining work to be done, and tentative time tables for completion. Most
of the tasks identified in the SDP and the SBS have been successfully completed.

        D. Regulatory Compliance

To monitor the impact of the bank restructuring efforts and the ensuing improvements in
regulatory compliance, the NBS prepared quarterly compliance matrices and details of ratio
violations (if any) on a bank-by-bank basis. Trend analysis of these compliance matrices confirmed
continuous improvements in regulatory compliance since the first quarter of 2002. Remaining
violations were minor and to some extent reflected weaknesses in the prudential rules themselves
(as outlined above).




                                                 - 9 -

III. Resolution of NPLs and Public Sector Arrears

        A. NPLs

After a relatively slow start due to management and financial weaknesses and the failure of the
EU PHARE tender for foreign advisors for initial portfolio due diligence, the SKA moved very
rapidly and effectively to resolve the NPLs acquired from the large former state banks (including
those held by the KBB, whose assets and liabilities were transferred to the SKA in early 2002). In
January 2003 SKA management was changed, with a former deputy Finance Minister being
appointed as the new Chief Executive. Additional changes at the SKA since December 2002
included appointment of a new Board, implementation of a new organizational structure and
tighter internal controls. The SKA's NPL resolution efforts were also advanced by amendments to
the income tax law and the law on budgetary rules allowing a recapitalization of the SKA,
effective June 1, 2003. These amendments facilitated the swap of outstanding SKA debt to the
MOF (created to finance the purchase of NPLs from the former state banks at face value) into
equity, and also provided a cash capital injection. The capital increase allowed the SKA to absorb
large losses when selling at a discount or legally writing off assets bought at face value. The SKA
also prepared a strategy document dated November 7, 2003 outlining resolution actions for all its
remaining assets.

The tender-based sale by SKA in December 2003 of 42.3 billion SKK worth of NPLs to a third
party, in combination with legal write-offs and legal resolution actions, brought the total of SKA
assets resolved over the 50% of 128.7 SKK billion threshold set as an EFSAL third tranche
release condition. By end March 2004, total resolutions had reached 86.48 billion SKK (67.2%)
and at the time of the EFSAL dissemination seminar held in November 2004, the amount of
claims resolved had reportedly reached 90%. This is a very impressive achievement when
compared with the track record of similar bad loan workout agencies in other countries that have
experienced financial distress, even more so when considering that Slovakia started its bank
restructuring effort relatively late, as a result of which the NPLs transferred to it from the state
banks had already lost most of their value.

        B. Public Sector Arrears




                                                   - 10 -

Throughout the EFSAL implementation period, the Government proactively pursued the
resolution of public sector arrears. Amendments to social insurance and health sector legislation
were enacted during 2002 allowing more flexibility in the resolution of social security and health
insurance premium arrears. However, new legal obstacles became apparent during 2003 when
actual resolution attempts were undertaken. A tender for the sale of health insurance premium
arrears at a discount to third parties was not successful, as all bids came in below a 10% of
nominal value minimum sales price specified in the law. It should be noted that even attempting to
sell such arrears at a discount was a very innovative and progressive step for the Slovak
Government to take, as few if any governments anywhere have used such techniques for arrears
resolution - hence the failure of the tender should in no way be seen as a lack of effort in this
respect. Tax secrecy provisions in the corporate income tax law precluded the transfer of tax
arrears to third parties. Another round of amendments to social insurance and tax administration
legislation in late 2003/early 2004 eliminated these remaining obstacles. Additionally, all health
insurance premiums were transferred to a new collection agency created as part of a
comprehensive health sector reform effort (supported by the Bank through a package of
adjustment and TA lending). This agency is using a menu of options for resolving these arrears,
including sale at a discount to third parties. Remaining public sector arrears already have been/will
be transferred to the SKA in the near future for resolution. Even with this new responsibility, it is
expected that the SKA will wrap up its operations within the next 1-2 years.

IV. Substantial improvements in the legal framework for financial and private sector
activity

The complete legal framework of the financial and corporate sector was overhauled in the context
of the EFSAL. In this area, Slovakia went beyond what was required by the loan conditionalities.
The impetus came in part from the requirement to harmonize the legal framework with the EU
Acquis, but more importantly from the high priority the Government attached to creating a very
conducive environment for financial sector development and private sector growth. Areas where
additional actions were taken over and above the EFSAL requirements include comprehensive
overhaul of the corporate tax, insurance and accounting & auditing laws and creation of a new
secured lending registry, as also highlighted below.

        A. Financial Market Legislation

Banking Law - See section II above on strengthening bank regulation and supervision.

Securities Market Law - A new modern securities law came into force on January 1, 2002. The
new law called for a complete relicensing of the brokerage industry to more narrowly define the
activities allowed by brokerage firms and to ensure that all firms met the new minimum capital
requirements. The re-licensing process was completed by the end of 2002. The new Law also
brought the legislative framework for capital markets activity in line with the requirements of the
Acquis in this area. Together with the adoption of a new law on collective investments and the
establishment of the Financial Markets Authority (FMA) in 2000 as the supervisory agency, the
new securities law completed the creation of a conducive framework for the development of the
Slovak capital markets. The FSAP undertaken in February/March 2002 (in particular the



                                                 - 11 -

assessment of compliance with the IOSCO securities market regulation principles) nevertheless
did identify some remaining weaknesses in the law (for example, the definition of securities did
not capture all products that should be subject to the regulatory regime) that were addressed
through subsequent amendments. Additionally, to build momentum for resolving some remaining
corporate governance weaknesses also identified by the IOSCO assessment, the Government
agreed to undertake, jointly with the Bank, a Corporate Governance ROSC (Report on
Observance of Standards and Codes) on a stand-alone basis in the summer of 2003. The findings
of this ROSC were disseminated through a workshop held in February 2004 and active follow-up
on the ROSC recommendations is provided by several externally financed technical assistance
projects the Government subsequently requested (for example, training of directors, development
and adoption on a comply-or-explain basis of a corporate governance code by the Bratislava
Stock Exchange as part of its listing rules).

Law on the Financial Markets Authority (FMA) - The law "On the Supervision over the
Financial Market And on the Change and the Amendment of Certain Acts", effective as of April
2002, strengthened the FMA's legal, budgetary and operational autonomy. The law allows the
FMA to levy fees on insurance companies and capital markets intermediaries to finance its
operations, and also specifies the supervision powers of the FMA and supports a more
independent organizational structure. A remaining weakness is the lack of regulatory authority for
the FMA (this authority still remains with the MOF and would require an amendment to the
Constitution to be transferred to the FMA), but this issue will be resolved with the planned
merger of the FMA into the NBS (scheduled for the end of 2005) - given that the NBS already
has such regulatory authority.

Insurance Law - With effect as of March 1, 2002 a new "Act on the Insurance Industry and
Amending Some Laws" went into effect. The new law significantly strengthened the regulatory
and supervisory framework for the sector as also confirmed by the assessment of compliance with
IAIS insurance supervision principles undertaken in the context of the FSAP and also harmonized
the legislation with the requirements of the Acquis in the insurance area. Insurance companies
were given a transition period of one year to conform their operations to the requirements of the
new law. Remaining weaknesses relate primarily to corporate governance provisions
(fit-and-proper tests of shareholders and responsibilities of members of the boards of directors of
insurance companies). The authorities have agreed to further discuss and address these issues
through an upcoming assessment of governance of the insurance sector to be undertaken jointly
with the Bank.

Bankruptcy Law - After an initial period of relative inaction, a newly appointed deputy Minister
of Justice (MOJ) moved rapidly and effectively to prepare a new draft Bankruptcy Law with the
assistance of a reputable local law firm (funded under the Bank's IDF Grant for Bankruptcy
Reform). The new draft law was submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government in April
2004 and approved by Parliament in early December 2004. The law will come into effect on
January 1, 2006 enabling the MOJ to implement the necessary changes within the courts and the
regulatory framework, and to train judges, trustees and practitioners in its use. The new law
replaces the old "Act on Bankruptcy and Composition", which was amended 14 times in 10 years
and establishes a modern insolvency system that includes features substantially in line with the



                                               - 12 -

recommendations and principles of best practice contained in the World Bank's Principles and
Guidelines on Effective Insolvency and Creditor Rights Systems. The law enables enterprises or
their viable parts to continue operating even after the start of bankruptcy proceedings, and also
establishes more efficient liquidation procedures and a more modern procedure to promote
enterprise reorganization.

Law on Bankruptcy Trustees - A new law on the bankruptcy trustee profession was drafted
simultaneously with the new bankruptcy law and also approved by Parliament on December 9,
2004. The new law was prepared on the basis of a study and recommendations by a reputable
locally based consulting firm, financed by the IDF Grant for Bankruptcy Reform, and will become
effective at the same time as the new bankruptcy law. The new law establishes a modern
regulatory framework for bankruptcy trustees, addressing a long standing problem of lack of
qualifications and proper ethics in the trustee profession, and vests supervisory authority over the
profession in the MOJ.

Tax Treatment of Debt Restructuring.- In order to enable both bank and non-bank creditors to
more flexibly resolve their problematic claims, the tax regime for debt restructuring was
revamped. In a first step, existing tax legislation and regulations were amended to introduce more
favorable tax treatment for bank loan loss-provisions and a new provisioning regime for non-bank
claims. Specifically, the tax treatment for non-bank creditors was switched from an ex-post to an
ex-ante regime, allowing the restructuring or sale of problematic claims before completion of
oftentimes lengthy legal proceedings (e.g., bankruptcy) against the debtors concerned. A
completely new, market-oriented corporate income tax law introducing a flat 19% corporate and
personal income tax regime was subsequently enacted (effective as of January 1, 2004)
incorporating these provisions. The new law does not contain provisions regarding the tax
treatment of debt equity swaps, because legally such swaps are not yet possible under the existing
bankruptcy legislation. The new draft bankruptcy law currently in Parliament will formally
introduce such swaps as a debt resolution mechanism, and the Government plans to amend the
corporate income tax law to specify their tax treatment once it comes into effect.

Secured lending - A package of amendments to the Civil Code and related legislation reforming
the collateral regime, prepared with EBRD assistance, was enacted in late summer 2002 and has
been in effect as of January 1, 2003. The amendments substantially strengthened creditor rights,
eased execution of secured claims, and broadened the range of usable collateral to include
movable assets. As noted earlier, over and above the EFSAL conditionality in this area and with a
view to quickly operationalize the new legislation, the Government with the help of local banks
and EBRD also created a new modern electronic and centralized collateral registry for both
movable and immovable assets. A pilot central database was launched in September 2002 and the
registry itself began operations on January 1, 2003. The collateral registry is starting to have a
noticeable impact on bank lending. As a result, after an initial decline due to the bad loan transfer
from the banks' books to the SKA, bank credit to the private sector has started to grow again (by
over 22% in 2002 and over 10% in 2003). Anecdotal evidence indicates that especially small
businesses are benefitting from the increased availability of credit, with larger enterprises
increasingly tapping cross border financial markets (i.e., there may be substitution of credit from
large to small firms-implying that access to finance for small firms has increased more than the



                                                 - 13 -

absolute growth numbers in total credit suggest).

Accounting Law - The EFSAL contained conditionality for changes to accounting rules for
banks in two areas (mark-to-market of Government securities and suspension of interest accruals
on non-performing loans). These changes were adopted, as explained below, but followed by a
much more comprehensive reform of the acccounting regime for public interest entities to comply
with the EU's IFRS reporting requirement as of January 1, 2005. Additionally, measures are
underway, with the support of the IDF Grant for Accounting & Auditing Reform, to create the
institutional and enforcement capacity necessary for successful IFRS application.

An amendment to the accounting law giving the MOF the power to set accounting standards for
banks was enacted in the fall of 2002. In November 2002 the MOF issued an implementing
regulation, effective January 2003, containing the two new accounting standards for banks.
However, the regulation did not provide for reversal of interest accruals on delinquent loans that
had already been booked as interest income, resulting in income overstatement. Also, banks
initially interpreted the suspension of interest accrual for delinquent accounts where payments had
not been received for 90 days to be voluntary rather than mandatory. The MOF therefore
amended the regulation effective July 1, 2003 to clarify that suspensions are mandatory.
Additionally, in March, 2004 the NBS disclosure rules for banks was amended to require all banks
to fully disclose non-reversed interest income booked in their published financial statements, so
that financial statements users could adjust income data and indicators based thereon.

Auditing Law - A new Audit Law enacted in June 2002 addressed issues related to auditors'
independence and ethical requirements. The law required the Slovak Chamber of Auditors to
publish a Code of Ethics in conformity with the Code issued by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). In a pragmatic approach to the issue, and following the Bank's
recommendation, the Chamber during its October 2003 Annual Meeting formally adopted the
actual IFAC Ethics Code (including any future changes to it), and also mandated the use of
International Standards on Auditing (ISA) by all its members as of January 1, 2004. Further
reforms to accommodate pending changes in the Acquis (e.g., the new 8th Company Law
Directive requiring public oversight of the audit profession) are underway with financing from the
IDF Grant for Accounting and Auditing Reform.

Commercial Law - A major overhaul of the Commercial Code was enacted in late 2001. The
Commercial Code amendment defined more clearly and expanded directors' and officers' liability;
expanded disclosure obligations of companies, and improved the protection of shareholders,
including minority shareholders. The amendment also provided for changes to the regulation of
the commercial register increasing the transparency of commercial relations. With the enactment
of the aforementioned amendments the Slovak legal framework for corporate governance
approximated that of other OECD countries. Nevertheless, as mentioned earlier, some
weaknesses remained, and the Government agreed to undertake a Corporate Governance ROSC
jointly with the Bank in the spring of 2003 to build the momentum for further changes, which are
currently under consideration and/or already under implementation through non-legal action
supported by externally funded TA (e.g., adoption of a corporate governance code as part of the
Bratislava Stock Exchange listing rules).



                                                 - 14 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The EFSAL's institutional development impact is assessed as substantial. The loan, supported by
externally funded TA, two IDF grants and analytical work, assisted in capacity building in all
institutions involved in the financial and enterprise sector reform program's preparation and
implementation. The loan also contributed substantially to the creation of capacity in these
institutions, setting the stage for further successful development of the financial and private
sectors and ultimately sustainable economic growth.

As discussed earlier, during the EFSAL life cycle the banking supervision activities of the NBS
were substantially restructured and upgraded. The NBS considerably increased it supervision
capacity not only due to management changes and the help of its external advisor, but also
because of visiting World Bank (and IMF) missions providing the NBS staff with advice on
specific issues on a regular basis. Furthermore, the ongoing dialogue between the Bank and senior
management of the NBS during the EFSAL life cycle ensured senior management support for the
reforms and created a healthy environment for NBS staff input.

In addition, the MOJ notably increased its capacity with regard to the protection of creditors
rights. The IDF Grant for Bankruptcy Reform and EBRD support for secured lending reform
allowed the Ministry to access world-class expertise in this area and to prepare new legislation in
line with international best practice standards. The support provided under the IDF Grant also has
given the MOJ the tools to modernize bankruptcy legislation and to establish a proper regulatory
regime for the bankruptcy trustee profession.

During EFSAL implementation, the new supervisory agency for the capital markets - the FMA -
implemented all suggested reforms with energy and enthusiasm. Although not required by the
EFSAL, the Bank worked together with DFID-funded external advisors to strenghten the FMA's
institutional capacity. At the end of the EFSAL program, the FMA was noticeably stronger and
more capable. EFSAL conditionality also enhanced its independence.

The EFSAL conditionalities with regard to Accounting and Auditing, in combination with the IDF
Grant for Accounting and Auditing Reform and the Accounting and Auditing ROSC resulted in
enhancing the capacity of the Slovak Chamber of Auditors, which now operates at a much higher
level of professional excellence. In addition, a new Financial Reporting Council and a new public
oversight body for the audit profession are currently being created as a follow-up to the reform
agenda under the EFSAL and supported by the IDF grant.

Several other institutions have also been created or strengthened under the auspices of the EFSAL
program including the electronic collateral registry, the SKA (whose capacity to successfully deal
with NPLs has been proven and will likely be given the additional task of resolving remaining



                                                  - 15 -

public sector arrears) and the DPF.

Moreover, in addition to the new strengthened institutions, a new modern legal and regulatory
framework for financial and private sector development has been put in place. As mentioned
earlier, this includes new laws for banking, securities markets and insurance, new accounting &
auditing laws, amendments to the Commercial Code and company registration legislation,
amendments to secured transactions legislation and new laws on bankruptcy and regulation of the
bankruptcy trustee profession. The impact of this legal overhaul is already evident in Slovakia's
success in attracting foreign direct investment and the positive branding effects of Slovakia being
identified as the leading reformer and among the top 20 economies in the world in terms of the
ease of doing business in the Bank's Doing Business Report 2005.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the life of the project there were no major disruptive events.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Slovak authorities remained strongly committed to the banking and enterprise sector reforms
throughout the EFSAL implementation period. With a new Government coming into office after
the September 2002 parliamentary elections, the reform commitment was reaffirmed. The
prospect of EU accession further underpinned the reform drive.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A key factor contributing to the EFSAL's success was its governance structure. The Government
set up a two-tier structure consisting of a high level inter-agency Steering Committee (responsible
for policy level decisions) and an implementation unit at the working level. The MOF, the NBS
and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister were the core implementing agencies. In addition, the
MOJ, the Chamber of Auditors, the SKA and the DPF also all had discreet reform responsibilities.
On the World Bank's recommendation, the MOF also appointed a high level Program Manager
for the EFSAL to coordinate and report on program implementation. Interaction with the Bank's
EFSAL team was smooth despite counterpart agency staff turnover in the wake of the election of
a new Government in September 2002.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The funding provided by the EFSAL (EURO 200 million) helped the Government to finance the
costs of the reform effort (especially the restructuring of the state banks). While early
disbursement of all loan funds was envisaged (reflecting the Government's desire to complete the
reform effort before the September 2002 elections), the loan was designed with a sufficiently long
implementation period to allow the release of the second and third tranche before the original
EFSAL closing date. There were no changes in financing during implementation, and
disbursements were made as soon as tranche release conditions were met.

Funding for technical assistance to help the Slovak authorities with reform preparation and
implementation was provided by several bilateral (e.g., PHRD, DFID) and multilateral (e.g., EU
PHARE, IMF, Bank IDF grant facility) agencies.




                                                     - 16 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The financial and enterprise sector reforms supported by the EFSAL have been far reaching and
very comprehensive. With the banking system now under new reputable ownership and
management and stronger creditor rights, the banks are likely to continue to expand their lending
to the private sector in the years ahead. Additionally, the dramatic improvements in the business
climate resulting from the reform effort (confirmed independently by the Doing Business Report
2005 and numerous other studies) are likely to continue to attract foreign investors to Slovakia
and encourage locally accumulated capital to be invested at home, favorably positioning Slovakia
to bridge the wealth gap with older EU member states. The multi-tick upgrades in Slovakia's
sovereign foreign and local currency debt ratings triggered by the EFSAL reforms also are
contributing to sustained improvements in Slovakia's fiscal and central government debt positions.
The sustainability of the reforms is further supported by the Government's recent focus on next
generation initiatives necessary to allow Slovakia to become a knowledge-based economy and
meet the so-called Lisbon 2010 competitiveness goals. Slovakia's membership in the OECD and
the EU and concomitant ongoing integration of its financial markets and private sector into the
wider EU single market also contribute to reform sustainability, and are clearly irreversible.

In summary, the reforms supported by the EFSAL are highly likely (HL) to be sustainable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Although Slovakia enjoys excellent access to market-based finance at this point in time, it wishes
to remain engaged with the Bank in recognition of the remaining complex development challenges
ahead (e.g., effective implementation of the Acquis, the Lisbon agenda, and the need for further
reform and capacity building in areas such as education and health care, the general judiciary
system, etc.). As outlined in the Country Partnership Strategy (May 6, 2004) for Slovakia, the
Bank will align its support with Slovakia/EU priorities consistent with Bank corporate priorities.
Future Bank assistance is likely to focus on: (i) macro- and fiscal measures to support prudent and
sustainable fiscal management; (ii) further structural reforms to enhance competitiveness; and (iii)
poverty reduction and social inclusion, especially with respect to the sizeable Roma population.
The Government also places a high value on the advisory services it can get from the Bank.

Concerning the financial and enterprise sectors specifically, areas of cooperation are likely to
include accounting & auditing (supported by an IDF grant assisting Slovakia with capacity
building necessary to implement the requirements of the Acquis), corporate governance, financial
market development and the knowledge economy.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The EFSAL was fully consistent with, and a core component of, the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Slovakia. The Bank incorporated the lessons learned from similar
multi-sector adjustment operations into the EFSAL's design, and appropriately mitigated both the
macro-economic risks (by working closely with the IMF in the design of the SMP) and the
sectoral risks (by designing the operation as a three tranche loan with a sufficiently long



                                                  - 17 -

implementation period and arranging upfront sufficient technical assistance for reform
implementation). The EFSAL's objectives were also fully consistent with the Government's own
overall economic and political (e.g., timely EU accession) objectives.

7.2 Supervision:
With sufficient resources being provided by the Country Unit, the Bank's EFSAL team provided
intensive implementation support for loan. To maximize synergies and minimize the burden on
the Slovak authorities, the Bank's first EFSAL implementation review coincided with the February
2002 FSAP. Thereafter, multiple Bank visits provided extensive policy advice and implementation
guidance, and conducted regular reviews of progress in achieving benchmarks defined as triggers
for second and third tranche release. Bank missions visiting Slovakia for analytical work
assignments and IDF grant supervision were also used to provide active support and maintain a
continuous dialogue with the authorities on reform implemention. In the first two years of
implementation, most of the Bank missions were undertaken in conjunction with IMF missions to
ensure maximum coordination between EFSAL and SMP implementation. The high quality,
continuous and open dialogue conducted with the authorities, which was also maintained between
visiting missions through frequent E-mail contact and submission of quarterly EFSAL progress
reports prepared by the EFSAL Program Manager, has been a critical success factor in achieving
successful project implementation.

Additionally, to assist the authorities in enhancing the understanding among the Slovak public at
large of the EFSAL's reform rationale and achievements, the Bank participated in an EFSAL
dissemination seminar in Bratislava in November 2004.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Both the loan's design and the Bank's
supervision effort were appropriately tailored to the Slovak circumstances and the challenge
posed by the magnitude of the financial and enterprise sector reforms required to ensure
Slovakia's accession to the OECD and the EU. The EFSAL was also appropriately supported by
the IMF's SMP, external agency and Bank-funded technical assistance and indepth Bank analytical
work, and properly embedded in the CAS.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory. The Government
discussed its reform priorities in the context of the CAS discussions leading up to the EFSAL, and
the core of the Government's reform agenda in the enterprise and financial sectors became key
components of the EFSAL program. The main counterparts from the MOF and NBS were closely
involved in the discussions and identification of the reform program components.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Slovak authorities remained committed to the financial and enterprise sector reform effort
throughout the EFSAL implementation period, and effectively used the Bank loan and associated
activities (IDF grants, analytical work) to focus their own sectoral reform agenda. The EFSAL's
governance structure (policy level steering committee, working level implementation unit and
EFSAL Program Manager arrangement) enabled effective coordination of the work of all
agencies involved. While not all reforms were implemented as quickly as initially envisaged (e.g.,


                                                 - 18 -

SKA asset resolution, preparation of new insolvency legislation), all EFSAL conditions were
successfully met and in several areas the reform effort went beyond the loan's requirements.
Therefore, the overall performance of the Borrower during implementation is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
See above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance during project preparation and implementation is rated
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Loan Design in Line with Complexity and Riskiness of the Reforms. The loan was
appropriately designed in conjunction with the IMF SMP and as a multi-tranche operation with a
sufficiently long implementation period, in line with the complexity and broad span of activities
envisaged under the operation. Drawing on the lessons learned from similar enterprise and
financial sector adjustment operations undertaken earlier in other transition economies (e.g.,
Poland, Hungary), the Slovakia EFSAL was also underpinned by sufficient technical assistance,
and supported by comprehensive Bank analytical work throughout its implementation period.
These features all contributed to the success of the operation.

At the same time, an unusually large number of conditions for both second and third tranche
release were included in the EFSAL loan agreement at the specific request of the Government,
unnecessarily complicating the loan's design. Having only core conditions specified for tranche
release in the loan agreement, with other conditions specified in the Letter of Development Policy
and Policy Matrix would have provided more flexibility in implementing the reforms.
Nevertheless, the EFSAL was successful due to the Government's continued commitment to the
reforms, and the Bank's strong implementation support.

Commitment to Reform as a Key Success Factor. Both the Slovak authorities and the Bank
recognized from the very beginning that obtaining real commitment and ownership for the
substance of the reforms was key to the success of the enterprise and financial sector reform
program. To create and sustain reform buy-in, the Bank engaged in an open and continuous
dialogue with the Slovak counterparts to enhance understanding of the reform objectives and the
specific requirements of each of the loan components. The Slovak counterparts on their part
created a dual level program management structure and also appointed a high level Program
Manager, both of which were instrumental in providing support to EFSAL implementation and
the ongoing reform efforts during the EFSAL life cycle. Counterpart commitment both at the
central government (deputy Prime Minister's office and MOF) and individual government agency
(NBS, MOJ, SKA) level has been strong throughout EFSAL implementation, and where it
temporarily waivered (such as initially at the SKA) the Government quickly appointed new people
in key positions to carry the reform effort forward. In this operation, the Slovak side effectively
used the World Bank to create a domestic "buy-in" for the reforms and thus implemented these
with less controversy than might otherwise have been the case.

Project coherence with the Bank's Slovakia AAA Program. The 2004 QAG assessment rated


                                                - 19 -

the Bank's Slovakia AAA Program Highly Satisfactory (HS) in terms of Strategic Relevance,
Coherence and Integration. The EFSAL was part of this assessment and the loan's objectives and
design were complementary to other Bank activities in the country. The HS rating reflects both
the specific reform recommendations in the financial and enterprise sectors and the contribution of
the Bank to the overall reform dialogue. The EFSAL conditionalities, the FSAP's supporting
analysis, technical assistance (the two IDF grants mentioned earlier), and the two ROSC
assessments helped to define the pace and direction of the reforms. In addition, these Bank
activities deepened the understanding and buy-in of the reforms needed, and helped build
institutional capacity to implement laws and regulations.

The project is a good example for other countries. The EFSAL has demonstrated that a
challenging and complex multi-sector adjustment loan can be successfully implemented in a very
short time period under the right circumstances (e.g., strong Government ownership and
commitment combined with pressures arising from external events such as OECD and EU
accession, coupled with strong Bank implementation support). Drawing on the lessons learned
from the EFSAL, the Bank could implement similar adjustment operations/programs in other
countries facing similar circumstances.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This section has been contributed by the Slovak Ministry of Finance

The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) financed by the World Bank in
the Slovak Republic has been drawn in the amount of EUR 200 million. It was a specific
adjustment loan conditioned on the fulfilment of a restructuring program centered on the financial
and enterprise sectors.

The EFSAL condition matrix was implemented and has achieved a satisfactory macro-economic
framework in line with assessments presented by the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. At present, Slovakia has a standard banking sector which has arisen after the successful
privatization of selected banks and the restructuring of big banks. Bank regulation and supervision
were also improved.

During the bank privatization process, the following originally state-owned banks were sold: a)
VUB, a.s. to Intesa BCI, b) Slovenská Sporitelna, a.s. to Erste Bank, c) IRB, a.s. to OTP, d)
Banka Slovakia, a.s. to Meinl Bank. All of the afore mentioned investors have converted these
banks into reputable institutions.

The banking sector and its supervision were stabilized and improved through setting up of a
proper regulatory environment, financial injection into bank assets and tighter supervision.

Parallel reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors gained very positive results. It was hard and
difficult to break the magic circle of overdue payments. Restructuring of the enterprise sector
decreased inter-company indebtedness and stopped the creation of additional inter-company
claims.



                                                 - 20 -

Another positive impact of the EFSAL Loan expressed itself in creating the effective conditions in
the process of settling the claims of Slovenská Konsolidacná, a.s.

The combination of new tax instruments and restatement of bankruptcy legislation has brought
effectiveness to the collection actions of creditors and a possibility to settle irrecoverable claims
in the enterprise sector. Arrears of public institutions have been improved globally (especially tax,
social and health arrears).

The goal of improving the bankruptcy procedures was to strengthen creditors' rights and also to
create a more effective system of solving the insolvency problems. The EFSAL has helped to
establish one of the most progressive registers for pledges of movable assets in the world.

The costs of the reforms were enormous (especially bank restructuring) but have returned benefits
sooner than expected (consolidated banking sector increased availability of loans, has accelerated
growth, decreased debt re-financing, etc.). Relations between the beneficiary and the World Bank,
respectively IMF were correct; missions visited often leading to increase of well-informed
cooperation on both sides.

The Loan design answered the purpose, although the matrix range was too extensive and it
proved difficult to fulfill all the matrix conditions (however the loan was drawn without
sanctions). In the future we would like to recommend to determine only the frame (core)
conditions and the details could be covered in the implementation phase (otherwise, there is a risk
of getting lost in details). Various governmental authorities were also participating leading to a
higher demand on the (reform) management process, which finally succeeded very well. Very
important will be the follow-up, monitoring of enterprises efficiency, identification of weak spots
and strengthening the objectives of capital market and its transparency.

The EFSAL Loan was completed and all conditions were successfully fulfilled with little delay.
We appreciate that the EFSAL has made a very positive contribution and significantly advanced
the Slovak economy through stronger financial and enterprise sectors.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
This section has been contributed by the IMF

IMF-World Bank Cooperation on the EFSAL/SMP was positive and fruitful. The strong
cooperation delivered notable results in some areas of mutual interest. A case in point is the
restructuring and privatization of the banking sector, and banking supervision. From the very start
of the design of the EFSAL operation, there was close cooperation between the two institutions'
teams in order to identify the problems and come up with common solutions. In the case of
banking supervision, this culminated in the preparation of the Supervisory Development Plan
(SDP) by the World Bank and the NBS, and its implementation through the provision of
long-term TA by the Fund. To help implementation of the SDP, the SMP included conditionality
from the EFSAL regarding banking supervision (since by the time the SMP was put together, the


                                                  - 21 -

restructuring/privatization of banks was completed). The joint Bank/Fund solutions were
particularly helpful in strengthening the supervisory agency because it allowed the NBS to focus
on common themes rather than conflicting suggestions from the two international organizations.
The participation of a Bank financial sector expert in some Fund missions helped the monitoring
of, and shaped recommendations on, financial sector supervision. At the same time, the EFSAL
included conditionality on Slovakia maintaining a good macro-economic performance. The
cooperation between the two institutions also included participation of the World Bank country
economist in IMF missions; this was particularly helpful as the Bank economist acted as an
interlocutor in areas where the Fund has little expertise (e.g., health, education). All this
cooperation proved to be very useful for the work of both institutions in Slovakia.

10. Additional Information




                                                - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Not applicable




                                        - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable

Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              01/24/2001                8    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); LEAD/
                                             SENIOR FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (2); ENTERPRISE
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (2);
                                             SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                                             BANKING CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              03/19/2001                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             LEAD/SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (2);
                                             ENTERPRISE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                                             COUNSEL (1)

 Supervision

              03/01/2002                5    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (2); SENIOR
                                             COUNSEL (1); FM PROGRAM
                                             COORDINATOR (1)
              07/15/2002                2    TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR          S               S
                                             COUNSEL (1)
              12/09/2002                5    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEAD
                                             COUNSEL (1); ADVISER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/05/2003                6    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEAD
                                             COUNSEL (1); ADVISER (1);
                                             SENIOR PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              09/24/2003                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              04/06/2004                2    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD            S               S
                                             COUNSEL (1)

 ICR

              11/09/2004                1     TEAM LEADER (1)                 S               S


                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        863,107
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                             162,116
  Supervision                                                       242,674
  ICR                                                                53,550
  Total                                                           1,321,447




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Documents: President's Report, Loan Agreement, Aide Memoires, PSRs, Tranche
Release Documents
 2. Slovakia IDF Grant for Bankruptcy Reform (IF-P071241-CAH) Grant Agreement,
TFSTARs
 3. Slovakia IDF Grant for Accounting and Auditing Reform (IF-P082065-CAH) Grant
Agreement, TFSTARs
 4. Accounting & Auditing ROSC, November 2001
 5. FSAP Report, September 2002
 6. Corporate Governance ROSC, October 2003
 7. Slovak Republic: QAG Assessment of the Bank's AAA Program for Slovakia, February 2004
 8. IMF Country Report No 02/198, September 2002: Slovak Republic: Financial System
Stability Assessment
 9. IMF Country Report No 03/234, August 2003: Slovak Republic: 2003 Article IV
Consultation Staff Report; Public Information Notice on the Executive Board Decision; and
Statement by the Executive Director for the Slovak Republic
 10. IMF Statement on Economic Policies of the Slovak Republic May 9, 2001
 11. Comprehensive Monitoring Report of the European Commission on the State of Slovakia's
preparedness for EU membership, 2003
 12. The Strategy of Activities of Slovenska Konsolidacna, a.s., August 2003
 13. Postova Banka History, issue 2003
 14. Slovenska Sporitelna Banka Annual Report 2003
 15. OTP Bank Slovakia Annual Report 2003
 16. Vseobecna Uverova Banka (VUB) Annual Report 2003




                                              - 30 -

- 31 -

