LO,AL) &54o-AI$*
FILE       ¢COPY                     RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-662a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MALAYSIA
August 20, 1968
Projects Department



. CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =     M$3. 00
M$l               =     US$0. 33
M$1, 000,Q00      =     US$333,333
FISCAL YEAR
Fiscal Year ends December 31



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                            i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                1
II.   THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF XALAYSIA               1
Functions and Responsibilities                           1
Organization and Management                               2
Staffing and Training                                     2
Expert Assistance                                         3
III.   FINANCIAL POSITION                                          4
Tariffs                                                   4
Accounting and Audit                                      5
Present Financial Position                                6
Past Earnings                                             7
IV.   EXISTING FACILITIES                                         8
Local Telephone                                           9
Radio Telephone Services                                  9
Long Distance System                                     10
Telegraph and Telex                                      10
International Telephone                                  11
Television                                               11
V.   THE PROGRAM                                                11
Cost and Financing of the Program                       13
VI.   THE PROPOSED LOAN                                          15
The Project                                              15
Procurement and Disbursement                             16
This report is based on the findings of missions to Malaysia
of which the latest was in November/December 1967 and was
composed of Messrs. M.V. Scoffier, S.S. Scales, and J.P. Vigie
of the Bank.



Page No.
VII.     JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                             16
Demand for Telecommunication Services                  16
Local Telephone Service                                17
Long Distance Service                                  17
Telegraph and Telex                                    19
International Telephone Service                        19
Television and Other Services                          19
Economic Aspects                                       20
VIII.    FUTURE FINANCES                                          20
Financing Plan                                         20
Future Operating Results                               22
Future Financial Position                              22
IX.      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          23



List of Annexes
1. List of Principal Functions Exercised by the TDM and Significant
Data on its Activities as of 1967 and for the 1966-1970
Development Program
2. Organization Chart
3. Basic Representative Tariffs
4. Terms of Reference for a study on the System of Financial Management
and Related Matters for the Telecommunicatior Department
5. Outline of Principal Items of TDM's Expansion Program under the
First Malaysia Plan (1966-1970)
6. Estimated cost of expansion program (1966-1970) East and West Malaysia
(consolidated), West Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak
7. Estimated costs of the works financed by the Bank (1968-1970)
8. Predicted growth of demand for telephone service in the States
of West Malaysia
9. Predicted growth of demand for telephone service in Sabah
10. Predicted growth of demand for telephone service in Sarawak
11. Costs Benefits Analysis
12.  Consolidated Notional Balance Sheets 1964-72 (Milaysia)
13. Consolidated Statement of Income (1964-67) and Forecast Income
(1968-72) (Malaysia)
14.  Statement of Income 1964-67 and Forecast Income 1968-72 (TWest Malaysia)
15. Statement of Income 1964-67 and Forecast Income 1968-72 (Sabah)
16.  Statement of Income 1964-67 and Forecast Income 1968-72 (Sarawak)
17.  Consolidated Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds (Malaysia)
18.  Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds (West Malaysia)
19.  Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds (Sabah)
20. Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds (Sarawak)
MAPS
IBRD 2232R   Microwave and VHF Schemes - West Malaysia
IBRD 2233    Long Distance Network and Numbering Plan - West Malaysia
IBRD 2234    Trunk and Junction Telephone Network - Sabah and Sarawak



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Malaysia has asked the Bank for a loan to
finance part of the foreign exchange cost of its program to expand and
improve the public telecommunications services of Malaysia under the
First Malaysia  Plan (1966-1970).   Total costs of the remaining portion
of the program over the period 1968 to 1970 are estimated at US$h9 million
equivalent of which the Bank loan would cover US$4.4 million.
ii.       The Borrower is the Government of Malaysia.    The work would
be carried out by the Telecommunications Department (TDM) of the Ministry
of Works, Posts and Telecommunications.
iii.      TDM exercises the telecommunications monopoly within Malaysia.
It establishes, maintains and operates telephone, telegraph and telex
facilities and also provides specialized telecommunication services in
several government departments and civil organizations.    In addition to
the services provided in Malaya (now West Malaysia) since 1964, TDM
has operated the telecommunication services in Sabah and Sarawak since
early 1968.
iv.       The proposed program consists of the installation of facilities
urgently needed to meet the principal requirements of Malaysia for
domestic and international telecommunications and allows for improve-
ment and modernization of the services throughout the Federation.    The
program is technically sound and economically justified.    The estimated
costs are reasonable, procurement procedures and arrangements for the
execution of the program as well as the financing proposals are
satisfactory.
v.        Principal items of the program under the First Malaysia Plan
are:
(a) the installation of 70,000 lines of automatic telephone
switching equipment at 41 existing and new main exchanges
and at 63 minor and rural telephone exchanges; 2,800
lines of existing equipment will be relocated in 100
exchanges and about 9,000 lines of obsolete equipment would
be retired from service;
(b) the extensions of the outside line plant and subscribers'
installations associated with above;
(c)  expansion and modernization of the main long-distance
telecommunication system, including substantial replace-
ment of existing overhead and high frequency radio links
by modern high capacity microwave and very high frequency
equipment.



- ii -
(d) addition to and redistribution of existing facilities
for medium distance interurban and junction networks and
for servicing new areas;
(e) addition to and improvement of overseas radio and cable
facilities providing international communications;  and
(f) expansion and improvement of telegraph and telex services
and of network facilities required by several government
departments and civil organizations.
Construction works under the proposed Bank loan are principally in
connection with the above items (b), (c), (d) and (f).    All of the
equipment to be financed under the loan would be purchased through
international competitive bidding.
vi.       The existing facilities are satisfactorily operated by TDM
staff which is capable and experienced.   Expansion plans and equipment
specifications have been or are being prepared with adequate outside
assistance and TDM is able to carry out the expansion program.
vii.      While the existing Telecommunications Department is well
administered, the present system of accounting and financial procedures
does not provide adequate financial information and meaningful financial
data essential to more efficient management of a revenue earning
utility.   This lack of financial information emphasizes a need for TDM
to be reorganized on a commercial basis.
viii.     The financial analysis prepared by the Bank mission shows
that the overall financial results of operations of the TDM in recent
years has been satisfactory.   The revenues of the branches of the
TDM in Sabah and Sarawak in East Malaysia represent only 10% of the total
overall revenues of the TDM and produce low returns mainly because of
the low capital investment during the last few years which has hindered
development and hampered growth.   Forecasts which provide for more
adequate investment in the period 1968-70 show improvement in these
regions and an improved overall financial position.   During this
period earnings would finance about 60% of the capital requirements,
bilateral loans would finance 32% and the proposed Bank loan 8%.
The financing plan is satisfactory.
ix.       The program is suitable for a Bank loan of US$4.4 million
equivalent, for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of three
and a half years, for specific projects to be executed between October
1968 and the end of 1970.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia's program for the expansion and
improvement of the telecommunication services of Malaysia is included
in the First Malaysia Plan (1966-70).   The total construction costs un-
der this Five Year Plan are estimated at US$69 million equivalent.   The
Government has asked for a loan to cover part of the foreign currency
required to finance the work of the remaining three- year period 1968-1970
of the Plan.   The total cost of construction during this period is
estimated at US$h9 million of which the proposed loan of US$4.4 million
and existing and proposed bilateral loans and grants of US$16.5 million
would finance most of the foreign currency requirements while internally
generated funds would finance the balance of funds required.    The
proposed loan would be the first one for telecomrmunications in Malaysia.
1.02      The Borrower would be the Government of Malaysia.    The
Telecommunicatiom Department (TDM) of the Ministry of Works, Posts and
Telecommunications, which operates the telecommunications monopoly in
Malaysia, would execute the work.
1.03      This report is based on information provided by the TDM and
on the results of appraisal missions composed of Messrs. M.V. Scoffier,
S.S. Scales and B. Kavalsky of the Bank wIhich visited West Malaysia in
May 1967, and of Messrs. M.V. Scoffier, S.S. Scales and J.P. Vigie of
the Bank which visited West Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak in December 1967.
Wrhile the first mission confined its appraisal mainly to West Malaysia,
the second extended the appraisal to incorporate TDM's enlarged
responsibilities in Sabah and Sarawak.    Additional aspects concerning
financial management were discussed by Messrs. A.D. Knox and S.S. Scales
during a visit to Malaysia in May 1968.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF MALAYSIA
Fhnetions and Responsibilities
2.01      With the formation of Malaysia in September 1963, all tele-
communication matters became the responsibility of the Minister of Works,
Posts and Telecommunications under the revised Telecommunication
Ordinance No. 28 of 1950.   The telecommunications services of the states
of Malaya (now West Malaysia) were formed into the TDM which is headed
by the Director General of Telecommunications (DGT).    The former Posts
and Telegraphs Departments of the Governments of North Borneo (now
Sabah) and Sarawak were formed into one region and administered by a
Regional Director of Posts and Telegraphs directly responsible to the
Secretary of the Ministry of Works, Posts and Telecommunications.
September 1965 saw the separation of Singapore from Malaysia and tele-
communications on the island became the responsibility of the Government



- 2 -
of Singapore.   In 1966, a Departmental Committee embracing all tele-
communication functions was formed to complete the integration of all
telecommunication services in Malaysia.   In 1967, responsibility for
the development of telecommunications in Sabah and Sarawak was trans-
ferred to the DGT, and in January 1968 postal and telecomm.unications
services in the two states w-ere separated which enabled the telecommuni-
cation services to be brought under the direct control of the DGT.
2.02      The TDM will be the beneficiary of the proposed loan.    Its
principal task is to provide local and long-distance telephone, tele-
graph and telex services within Malaysia as well as international
services.   In addition, it provides Government departments, local
authorities estates, and other organizations with specialized tele-
communication services such as fixed and mobile radio-communications,
private telecommunication services, television (TV) broadcasting and
TV program transmission for the Information Department.    Details of
TDM's functions and significant data on the present responsibilities
and activities of the Department and on their expansion under the
1966/70 development program are given in Annex 1.
Organization and Management
2.03      TDM's organization chart is shown in Annex 2.    The Director
General is the Chief Executive Officer.    The present incumbent has been
with the Department for about twenty years.    He is well qualified and
capable and with his senior executive staff is competent to manage and
operate the existing services and proposed extended facilities.
2.04      Existing telecommrunication services are well run technically,
but the department lacks adequate financial information necessary to
more efficient management.   The Government is reforming its national
budget and a study to provide an effective system of modern accounting
and financial management for the TDIM is being undertaken in accordance
with terms of reference and with a schedule agreed upon during negotiations
(paragraph 3.07).
Staffing and Training
2.05      At the end of 1967 the Department had about 9,000 employees.
The annual growth of staff during the construction period 1968-1970,
including employees under instruction and retraining, is estimated at
4%.   This is considerably less than the proposed rate of increase in
number of telephones and in traffic under the program and is due to the
emphasis on automatic facilities.   TDM's forecast in this respect and
the number of staff employed are reasonable.
2.06      The Government has followed a policy of Malayanization which
involves the replacement of senior foreign staff with suitably qualified
local staff.   Since 1963 out of a total senior staff of 103, 16
foreign officers have left the service. VWhile this transition went
reasonably smoothly in West Malaysia, the staffing position will become
difficult in East Malaysia by the end of 1968 with the expiration of



-3-
the short-term contracts of six foreign officers and with the departure
of the last two long-term officers in Sabah and Sarawak who are due
to leave the service.   During negotiations assurances were obtained
that the TDM would make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to
obtain engineering staff to execute the project and to train local staff
in the operation of the new facilities in Sabah and Sarawak.
2.07      The TDN maintains a Training Center (TTC) with residential
facilities for specialized vocational training for engineering and
operational personnel in telecommunications.   The Center was set up in
Kuala Lumpur as a joint United Nations-Government venture, for which
assistance in the form of equipment, expert instructors and fellowships
for Departmental staff is provided by the U.N. Special Fund.    It has
a staff of eight ITU/UNDP experts assisted by their counterparts from
the TDM and several part-time instructors.    The Center's maximum
capacity is 200 students and during 1967 had an average weekly attendance
of 175.   UNDP's initial participation was for six years to 1968 but
this has been recently extended until 1970.    From 1968, vocational
courses will be available in Sabah and Sarawak.   TWhen this extension
phase is completed, the TTC will have a maximum capacity of 300 students.
Satisfactory results have already been achieved by the Training Center
which is providing a pool of trained men available to the TDM.    Recruit-
ment of suitable students for training presents no problem in lWest
M,alaysia, but in East Malaysia the limitation of education of local
staff may present difficulties.
Expert Assistance
2.08      In the past TDM has engaged experts to assist in the planning
and engineering design of systems and to advise on operational aspects.
In 1964 two experts participated in the work of the National Telephone
System Planning Connittee.   They assisted in establishing a unified
numbering plan covering West Malaysia, specifying equipment and choosing
the switching system for future automatic operation of the domestic
long-distance telephone network, and in preparing a more uniform
charging plan.   In 1965 three ITU experts surveyed telecommunication
needs in East Malaysia and tariffs are being studied with the assistance
of an ITU expert with a view to modifying the tariff schedules in line
with the recent changes in West Malaysia and for application when the
systems are improved.
2.09      Recruitment of local engineering staff since independence
has been made from newly qualified applicants who were lacking in
experience.   With the program of works envisaged this might therefore
leave gaps which cannot easily be filled by the few available experienced
engineers.   During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the TDM
will, where required, continue to utilize specialized experts for
planning and implementing specific projects and operating new systems,
and to retain senior advisers for recommending and preparing future
developments until its own senior staff has gained adequate experience.



III. FINANCIAL POSITION
Tariffs
3.01      TDM derives the bulk of its revenues (about 85%) from telephone
services mainly from domestic and international telephone traffic and
rental of telephone lines. The remaining revenue comes from telex and
telegraph services, and charges for providing specialized services and
maintaining plant on behalf of other organizations.
3.02      Tariffs for domestic traffic are set by regulations approved
by the Minister of Works, Posts and Telecommunications subject to Parlia-
ment's approval. Revenues collected from domestic traffic between the
three Malaysian territories are paid into the Government Consolidated
Fund.
3.03      For international services, the tariffs and the participation
in revenues are established by international agreement between the
Malaysian Government and the overseas connecting entities. Arrangements
exist whereby revenues from traffic using the commonwealth cable system
is paid to the Commonwealth Cable Management Committee for meeting ex-
penses, and the surpluses shared in proportion to the use of the partic-
ular section of the cable system. Traffic between Malaysia and Singapore
is classified as international for tariff purposes. An agreement provides
that each country will pay the revenue collections from traffic from the
originating country to the other country into a common pool, which, after
deduction of mutually agreed expenses, is then shared in the proportion
of 77.5% to Malaysia and 22.5% to Singapore. This apportionment was
negotiated between the two Governments.
3.04      Basic tariffs are set out in Annex 3.   Telephone rentals vary
between business and residential and between the three regions. Tariffs
have been maintained at a relatively high level in West M4alaysia, and
were further increased in July 1966 by an additional charge of MO1 cents
per local call in excess of the first 100 calls per month and M10 cents
per call unit according to a national trunk call metering and charging
plan for subscribers using the subscriber trunk dialing system. East
Malaysian tariffs which are generally lower are presently under review
with the object of gradually establishing an improved charging plan
similar to that for West Malaysia. This review should be completed in
time to enable its introduction in East Malaysia as the telecommunication
system is improved. Apart from these tariff adjustments and until
the accounting reorganization has been completed, TDM agreed not to vary
the tariff schedule without prior consultation with the Bank. Thereafter
the schedule of tariffs would be adjusted to provide revenue sufficient
to produce a rate of return of at least 8% of the average net assets
in operation. As an interim measure TDM shall prepare pro forma financial
statements annually as part of the Bank's reporting requirements to
enable some interim judgment to be made on the results of financial
operations.



Accounting and Audit
3.05      The Government system of accounting is used to record the
financial transactions of TDM. Payments are made against annual legis-
lative appropriations, the date of payment governing the date of charge
in the accounts. Cash collections are paid to the Government Consolidated
Fund, the date of receipt being the date when the revenue is shown in
the books. This system, designed to control cash, does not provide the
cost and revenue data necessary to determine the adequacy of tariffs or
to control expenditure, and in general is not conducive to the efficient
management of a revenue earning undertaking.
3.06      In an attempt to overcome these shortcomings the West Malaysian
department maintains some records which are not an integral part of the
official government accounting system. These estimated commercial
accounts are prepared by the statistics and cost section reporting to
the Deputy Director General of TDM. No similar records are available in
East Malaysia where the Government has only recently separated the
postal and telecommunication functions. The lack of reliable financial
information emphasizes the need for a reorganization of the accounting
and financial functions, to provide an effective system of financial
management for TDM to be run on a commercial basis.
3.07      Since the appraisal mission in December 1967, the Government
has commenced a reform of its national budget and is introducing "Program
and Performance" budgeting. It has obtained the services of an official
of the U.S.A. General Services Administration as a Budget Adviser, and
of an Accounting Adviser from Canada to work with the Budget Adviser.
The proposed system of budgeting is based on three interrelated consider-
ations, (a) clarification of the functions to show clearly the work
objectives of the departments(b) the system of accounting and financial
management will be brought into line with budgetary classification and
(c) action will be taken by each department to study, design, and
establish methods of measuring work performed which would be useful in
evaluating performance. The two Advisers, together with the assistance
from the Government's Costing and Mqanagement Unit, and certain of the
Accountant General's staff should be able to undertake a study to provide
an effective system of accounting and financial management for the Tele-
communication Department.
3.08      While requiring that the TDM remain a Government Department,
the Government agreed during the negotiations to undertake the study in
accordance with the terms of reference elaborated in Annex 4 employing
on a full time basis the two experts and appropriate other staff. An
undertaking was also given that the new commercial accounting system
would become effective not later than the end of December 1972.
3.09      The Government Auditor General is responsible for the audit of
the Government accounts which includes those relating to the TDM. As
TDM will continue as a government department the audit will continue to
be undertaken by the Auditor General or by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, appointed by the Auditor General.   This
procedure would be acceptable to the Bank.



- 6-
Present Financial Position
3.10      An attempt has been made by the appraisal mission to make a
pro forma presentation of TDM's earnings, the flow of funds, and financial
situation, assuming the departments in W4est Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak
had been paying all their expenses and collecting all their revenues.
The revenues in West Malaysia in 1964 through 1967 have been reconstructed
to represent income accruals as distinct from receipts, and expenses to
represent exDenditure incurred for goods received, or work done, as
distinct from payments made. In the East Malayan Territories, receipts
and payments during the same Deriod were assumed to represent "revenue"
and "expendit-ure". Other assumptions are referred to in more detail in
the notes to Annexes 12 and 13.
3.11      Consolidated notional Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1964,
through 1967 in Annex 12 show the combined financial position of the
three regions of liest Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak. The value of net
fixed plant in service has been based on historical cost values of
capital expenditure of previous years and an assumed annual composite
rate of 5% for depreciation (paragraph 2 Annex 12). These values could
be considerably understated because (a) no adjustment has been made
prior to 1964 to reflect salaries of employees engaged on capital con-
struction which have been charged as annually recurrent charges and not
apportioned to capital and (b) historical cost may no longer reflect
current values. Estimates of accounts receivable, inventories, and
accounts payable were prepared.   Cash was omitted since the TDN does
not control its own funds. Ihe value of inventories at the end of 1966
is the book value of unallocated stores. Further details are given in
the notes to Annex 12.
3.12      The estimated capitalization of the Department at December 31,
1967, is shown below; these figures are still subject to audit:
Equity                              014$ millions  US$ millions   %
Capital reserve                       164.7          54.9       70
Retained earnings                      66.6          22.2       28
Total equity              231.3           77.1       98
Long-term debt
4-3/8   7% UK/Malaya loan        )
1963/70        3.3)
6-3/4%- Svenska Handel Bank      )      4.3           1.4        2
1967/78        1.0)      --
Total capitalization       235.6          78.5      100



- 7 -
3.13       The total equity is a balancing figure between the sum of fixed
and current assets, and the sum of long term indebtedness and current
liabilities.   It is divided between retained earnings, representing the
sum of the net profits for the four years 1964 to 1967 shown in Annex 13
and capital reserve.   An increase of M$4.6 miulion in capital reserves since
1964 represents the net notional Government contribution to equity for
assisting the financing of the capital construction costs plus the adjust-
ment in the UK/Malaya loan following the 1967 devaluation of sterling.
3.14       The lcng term debts are the several amounts totalling M$3.3
million equivalent drawn under a UK/Yalayan Credit agreement and M$1.0
million drawn on a Svenska Handel Bank 1967/78 loan.    The former sterling
loan was authorized by the Government by Act No. 7 of 1959 which sanctioned
borrowing up to £2.25 million.    The Svenska loan of March 1967 provides for
borrowings up to US$10 million equivalent for imports from Sweden.
3.15       It should be emphasized that only after a modern system of
accounting and financial control has been introduced, would the various
items in the balance sheets attain their full significance.
Past Earnings
3.16       The consolidated Statement of Income covering the combined
Malaysian operations for the four fiscal years ended December 31, 1967
is shown in Annex 13.   Separate statements for West Malaysia, Sabah
and Sarawak are shown in Annexes 14, 15 and 16 respectively.
3.17       The combined operating revenues ranged from M$55 million
in 1964 to M$79 million in 1967.   The distribution of total revenue
between East and West Malaysia is in the approximate ratio of 1:9.    The
rates of return calculated on average net assets in operation including
the SEACOM investment varied between 8% and 11.1%.    In West Malaysia
(Annex 14) and Sabah (Annex 15) returns were higher than the combined
average while the returns in Sarawak (Annex 16) were lower than in the
other regions.   The return of 11.7% in West Malaysia for 1967 was
mainly due to an increase in tariffs.    The exceptional rate of return
of 8.6% in Sarawak during 1966 reflected the introduction of the tele-
printer service, but this return was not maintained in 1967 owing to
increased operating expenses.   In Sabah (Annex 15) the revenue from
international traffic following the connection of the SEACOM cable
at Jesselton helped to maintain an acceptable level of return of over
9% and therefore tended to obscure what uould have been a poor return.
Tariffs are presently under review in East Malaysia and improved charging
plans are to be introduced with improvements in the service provided.
3.18       The following table shows how earnings have helped to
finance construction and working capital requirements during the
period 1964-1967.



-8 -
Expressed in M$ millions
West Malaysia  Sarawak  Sabah    Total  %
Internally generated funds            112.3       4.8     5.0     122.1  105
Less debt service                     (13.1)       -        -     (13.1) (11)
Net internal cash generation         99.2        4.8     5.0    109.0   94
Borroiings                              3.6         -       -       3.6    3
Government contribution                 (8.1)      5.1     6.8      3.8    3
Cost of construction and in-
crease in working capital            94.7       9.9    11.8    116.4   100
3.19      The internally generated funds (net of debt service) provided
94% of the capital construction cost, 3% was met from loans and 3% was
contributed by Government. The high proportion of self financing of ex-
pansion is due in part to the negligible amounts of debt service, and to
the conservative expansion carried out in these years. Closer examination
of the distribution in the three regions shows that after allowing for
contributions to the Government 96% of the West Malaysian requirements
were financed from internally generated funds (net of debt service) and 4%
from borrowings. In Sabah, internally generated funds financed 42% of its
construction program while in Sarawak, internal funds financed 46% of its
program. These percentages, however, are somewhat misleading since they
are in part due to the low levels of capital expenditures in these years.
Development has been hampered by the lack of capital due to limitations
on Government budget appropriations and delays in obtaining Treasury
approval for purchases requiring foreign currency. Development has not
kept pace with the demand for services as evidenced by the backlog in
West Malaysia alone of about 9,600 telephone applications and the con-
gestion and poor quality of the service in Sabah and Sarawak.
IV. EXISTING FACILITIES
4.01      The pattern and kind of existing telecommunication facilities
closely reflect the geographical pattern of economic and administrative
activity in the country. The attached maps show that the existing
networks are more developed and sophisticated along the basic infra-
structural axis Penang-Ipoh-Kuala Lumpur-Singapore in the Western portion



- 9 -
of West Malaysia where more than 80% of the population and about 90% of
the industrial, mining and trade activities are located.    This part of
the peninsula is essential in the economy and demography of the country,
and it is serviced accordingly.   In East Malaysia facilities are
principally installed in cities and ports along the coasts where
population, production, trade and public administration are concentrated.
The lack of roads hampered interconnection in the Eastern part of West
Malaysia in Sabah and Sarawak.   Due to the backlog of unsatisfied
demand, principal use of the systems is still for business and admini-
stration in both local and long-distance services.    Increasing congestion
in traffic is observed principally in the most sophisticated autornatic
systems servicing the main cities and between them in W4est Malaysia.
The following gives an outline of the existing systems.
Local Telephone
4.02      The local telephone service in the main centers of population
in Malaysia is based upon step-by-step automatic exchange equipment.
The first automatic exchange in Malaya went into service in 1930 in
Kuala Lumpur and was replaced in 1951.    Manually operated exchanges
still exist in the smaller towns and rural areas in West Malaysia and
in Sarawak but these represent less than 10% of the total installed
capacity.   Equipment is normally installed by TDM staff with technical
advice on new type units.   About 30% of all automatic exchange equip-
ment in service is new and equipment is generally in good condition and
maintenance is satisfactory.
4.03      The Department operates a total of 374 automatic and manual
telephone exchanges with an installed capacity of about 116,000 lines,
of which 105,000 are automatic.   In December 1967, 86,100 main sub-
scriberst lines were in service of which 90% were connected to auto-
matic installations mainly in the larger towns.    The remaining manual
exchanges are being converted to automatic, which should improve traffic
conditions and reduce operating costs by the elimination of operators.
4.o4      The distribution system is normally by underground cable in
the larger towns and by aerial cable and openwire line in smaller towns
and rural areas.   Overhead line plant materials and small capacity
plastic insulated cables are manufactured locally.    Local line plants
are generally adequately constructed and maintained in good condition.
Radio Telephone Services
4.05      Outlying telephone subscribers in remote areas not served
with telephone exchanges are served by high frequency (HF) radio or
very high frequency (VHF) radio service.   The service provided is most
frequently based on VHF stations working through master centers on
hilltop sites or at the main microwave and VHF stations on the long-
distance network.   About 1,200 fixed and 650 mobile terminal stations
are connected through approximately 60 master centers.    This extensive
network is providing communication facilities to isolated communities
and estates and to essential Government and non-government organizations



- 10 -
or services  (see Annex 1).   The installations are satisfactorily
operated and maintained.
Long-distance System
4.o6      The long-distance network mainly consists of openwire, audio
cable, carrier on overhead lines and cable, VHF and microwave radio
systems.   The principal trunk and junction routes as at December 1967
are shown in thg maps following Annex 21, The network had an extension
of 155,300 circuit miles. A total of 3,072 long-distance and junction
circuits, 2,900 of them in West ailaysia, were carried cn some 400
different routes.
4.07      In West Malaysia, the large capacity microwave system links the
principal towns along the West Coast.    Small capacity VHF radio systems
link the larger population areas on the East Coast and up country towns
by means of repeater stations established on high points in the central
mountain range.   These schemes were built from 1954 through 1964.
Equipment for TV channel transmission both-way between Kuala Lumpur
and Singapore and one-way from Kuala Lumpur to Penang was added in 1966.
Telephone subscribers' trunk dialing (STD) was developed on the main
traffic routes during recent years.   Some 70% of the subscribers now
have access to STD facilities and about 60% of the domestic and inter-
national telephone traffic is handled through subscribers' or operators'
dialing.   Facilities, however, are at times overloaded.    Equipment is
generally in good condition.
4.o8      In East Malaysia, most of the interurban circuits are provided
by VHF radio systems.   Some overhead lines and carrier equipment are
used along the West Coast of Sabah.    Some HF radio equipment is used in
Sarawak.   Trunk facilities are generally insufficient and the quality
is poor.   This is principally due to path lengths of up to 150 miles
on VHF links where installation of intermediate repeaters was not
possible in sparsely populated areas of jungle covered mountainous
terrain.   Network facilities for long-distance circuits are at a very
early stage of development in East Malaysia where poor quality of the
service has suppressed the normal build up of long-distance traffic.
Telegraph and Telex
4.09      In December 1967, there were 293 public telegraph offices.
Telegraph circuits numbered 225 and voice frequency telegraph channels
totalled 66,250 circuit miles.   The telegraph service is provided on
teleprinter with the exception of minor offices in the small towns and
villages where telegrams are telephoned by the operators.    Some manual
Morse circuits continue in service in East Malaysia where telegraph
traffic is fairly heavy due to the insufficient trunk network.    Telex
is available to subscribers in Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh, Penang and Kota
Kinabalu and the switching is performed manually.    About 174 telex
stations are at present in service -hich compares favorably with the
service rendered in more developed countries.



International Telephone
4.10      International traffic is mainly routed through circuits in
the SEACOM cable.   This was brought into service in 1965 linking
Singapore with Hong Kong via Sabah.   The Kuala Lumpur-Singapore micro-
wave link connects Kuala Lumpur to the cable in Singapore.    The cable
also provides Sabah with overseas circuits.    The SEACOM cable is now
extended to Australia to link with the Commonwealth Pacific Cable to
New Zealand, Canada and England.    In December 1967, there were 21
telephone, 18 telex and 11 telegraph circuits in service on the SEACOM
cable for handling overseas traffic to and from Kuala Lumpur.    An
international automatic telephone switching exchange using the most
modern technique was opened for service in October 1967 at Kuala Lumpur.
International operators are now able to dial directly to subscribers in
Britain, Canada, United States, Hong Kong and Australia.   Similar
facilities are being extended to Japan and New Zealand.    During 1967,
international telephone traffic obtained with available CEACOM circuits
exceeded six times the traffic in 1964 when HF radio telephone was used.
4.11      HF radio circuits to neighboring Asian countries are also in
operation via the overseas radio station of the Singapore Telephone
Board, and also a land line and a short-haul VHF link to Thailand.
These systems suffer from poor quality due to atmospheric noise, fading
and interference from stations on adjacent frequencies.
Television
4.12      The TDM is also responsible for the transmission aspects of
the television (TV) which includes transmitter stations and microwave
links to give nation-wide TV coverage.    Six high power (6 kw) main
transmitters are presently operated in Malaya and cover the more populated
urban areas.   Two low power (100/300 W) minor transmitters receive the
TV signal off-the-air for rebroadcast to local areas on the East Coast.
The two main TV program centers at Kuala Lumpur and Singapore are
interconnected for two-way exchange of programs.    TV transmitters and
equipment for TV bearer circuits are generally located on the same
sites as the microwave stations of the TDM network.    As at December 31,
1967, total length of one-way TV circuit in service was 1,400 miles.
No TV installations are operated in East lMalaysia.
V.   THE PROGRAJ"
5.01      The TDM's expansion program under the First Malaysia Plan
(1966-1970) has been approved by the Govermnent at an expenditure level
for total development capital of M$206 million (US$69 million equivalen).
The foreign exchange componentwas estimated at about M$99.3 million
(US$33.1 million equivalent).
5.02      The program was prepared by the National Telephone System
Planning Committee (see paragraph 7.01) with the advice of experts fron
the ITU who assisted in planning the systems and specifying detailed



- 12 -
projects.   It is a continuation of the Second Malaya Plan (1961-1965) and
of the development plans carried out in Sabah and Sarawak during the
same period.   Its size was determiined after assessing:  (a) short and
long-terim demands;  (b) the quality standards of methods and techniques
to be adopted; (c) the Department's installation and operating experience
with the existing facilities; (d) staff and training requirements;
(e) and the need for coordinating the planning and phasing of complex
systems whose development is made up of deeply interrelated projects.
5.03      The program aims at meeting the essential outstanding demand
for telephone, telegraph and telex service and at providing good
communications throughout and between the States of Malaysia which are
necessary for trade, transportation and industry as well as for
Government requirements.
5.04      The following are the main items in the TDM program under the
First Malaysia Plan (see Annex 5 and attached maps):
(1) Local telephone switching equipment - the installation of
70,000 new line units in automatic telephone exchanges, of
which 58,700 would be in West Malaysia, 7,200 in Sabah and
4,100 in Sarawak.   About 8,900 manual lines would be
retired from service in West Malaysia, making a net
increase of 61,100 new lines;
(2) Outside Plant - the installation of local cable and overhead
line networks to the subscribers, subscribers' stations and
private branch telephone installations.   It is planned
that about 45,000 new main subscribers will be served and
about 60,000 telephone sets installed over the five-year
period;
(3) Long-distance Systems - the installation of the following
main facilities: two main microwave routes with a maximum
capacity of 960 circuits over 600 miles and twelve medium
capacity spur routes up to 600 circuits in West Malaysia;
two microwave routes with a maximum capacity up to 300
circuits in East Malaysia (300 miles in Sabah and 140 miles
in Sarawak); one 60 circuit scatter system between West
Malaysia and Sarawak; trunk and junction cables, overhead
line carrier systems, multiplexing equipment, trunk tele-
phone automatic switching equipment, VHF and UHF radio
links;
(4)  International Service - the construction of transmitting
and receiving HF radio stations near Kuala Lumpur equipped
with modern facilities for international telephone and
telegraph services, international trunk telephone and
telegraph exchanges at Kuala Lumpur and Kota Kinabalu;
(5)  Telegraph and Telex - the installation of about 200 tele-
printers, voice frequency telegraph systems, switching
equipment for telegraph and telex centers;



- 13 -
(6) Other developments and works - routine works to expand and
improve existing services, rearrangement and redistribution
of existing facilities, expansion of specialized services
to public or private organizations, works carried over from
Second Malaya Plan, land and building acquisition, extension
of TDM's headquarters, general services such as stores and
workshops, transport tools and mechanical aids, accounting
and billing project, investments in SEACOM and INTELSAT
partnerships, training schemes, engineering and consultant
services and miscellaneous other development works.
5.05      The program prepared by TDM is technically sound and expert
assistance is being used for its preparation and execution.    The TDM
management is capable of executing it effectively.    TDM's staff is
capable of installing most of the equipment under the various schemes.
New buildings will be constructed by the Public Works Department.
Qualified experts will assist in the installation of the new automatic
trunk exchanges for national and international long-distance circuits,
the tropospheric scatter link, and the testing and operating of ths new
facilities.   The Plan is thus considered a suitable basis for the
proposed Project.
Cost and Financing of the Program
5.o6     The cost of the five-year program (1566-1970) is summarized
as follows (see Annex 6):
in millions of M$     in millions of US$  % of
ITEMS                         Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total Total
1. Local telephone switching
equipment                19.3    26.o   45.3    6.4      8.7  15.1   22
2.  Outside plant              32.3    18.7  51.0    10.5      6.2  17.0   25
3. Long-distance systems       25.8    32-1 57.9       8.6    10.7  19.3   28
4. International service        7.7    15.0   22.7     2.6     5.0   7.6   11
5. Telegraph and telex          1.8     2.8    4.6     o.6     0.9   1.5    2
6.  Other works                20.1      4.7  24.8     6.7     1.6   8.3   12
TOTAL       107.0    99.3 206.1    35.7     33.1  68.8  100
These estimates are based on actual experience of the TDM and are con-
sidered to be reasonable.



- 14 -
5.07      While local financing is provided in its entirety from TDM's
cash generation, foreign exchange financing of the five year program
1966-1970 is estimated as follows:
Source of Funds to Finance Foreign Exchange           US$ millions
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank (under Ericsson's
contract for switching equipment) 1967-1978              7.1
Existing bilateral loans:
7% UK/Malaya loan 1963/70                               0.2
5-3/4% Japanese loan - 1967/84                           0.5
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968           6.1
Future bilateral financing                              3.2
Proposed Bank loan                                         4.4
TDM's cash generation                                    11.6
Total     33.1
5.08      Part of the foreign exchange financing has already been obtained
(see paragraph 3.14).  Under the Swedish bank loan a contract for
US$7.1 million equivalent was signed with L.M. Ericsson in March 1967 for
switching equipment.   From the UK/Malaya loan US$0.2 million equivalent
would be used for the First Malaysia Plan as well as the recent Japanese
loan of US$0.5 million for the purchase of transmission and microwave
installations.   All these arrangements are concluded on the basis of
international competitive tenders, a procedure which TDM has to follow
under Government procurement instructions.   In 1968 additional bilateral
financing and suppliers' credits were obtained, or are being negotiated,
for the proposed project from countries participating in the Consultative
Group for Aid to Malaysia, in particular for the local cable networks, for
the construction of the main microwave routes, for telex and telegraph,
and for the scatter link, at a total cost of approximately US$6.1 million.
The terms of this financing as far as determined so far range between 10
to 18 years of repayment and 5-3/4% to 6-3/4% interest.   Future bilateral
financing is expected to be arranged in 1969 and 1970 for other similar
works under the program, at a total cost of about US$3.2 million.   In
case of any difficulty to obtain these loans, the Government will make
available required funds for timely execution of the works.
5.09      The amrount of US$11.6 million equivalent taken from TDM's cash
generation is converted into foreign currency by the Government Treasury
for expenditures such as TDM's participations in SEACOM, INTELSAT and ITU,
and purchase of equipment for extending existing installations and for
works in stores and workshops.   In 1966 and 1967 US$7.6 million were
spent for such developments leaving a balance of US$4 million to be
secured by the Government Treasury during the remaining three-year period
of the program from 1968 to 1970.   The remaining foreign currency require-
ments of US$4.4 million to complete the First Malaysia Plan would be
financed from the proposed loan.



- 15 -
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
The Project
6.01      The project consists of that portion of the TDM's program which
would be executed during the last three-year period (1968-1970) of the
First M4alaysia Plan.  The estimated costs of this remaining portion of
the Plan amount to about M$147 million (US$49 million equivalent) with
a foreign exchange component of about US$25 million equivalent.    (For
details see Annex 6 and paragraph 8.02).
6.02      Foreign exchange financing of the works during the three-year
period of the project is proposed as follows: (a) existing and future bi-
lateral credits from suppliers and banks totalling US$16.5 million equivalent
(b) TDM's cash generation US$4.0 million equivalent and (c) the proposed
Bank loan.US$4.4 million.
6.03      TDM's requirements under the loan would principally cover:
local telephone subscribers network equipment, part of the long-distance
domestic network, telegraph and telex equipment, and miscellaneous
accessories and equipment for installations and structural works as
follows (see Annex 7 for details):
M$ million
in dollar equivalents
I. Local telephone subscribers network and
outside equipment (overhead line
materials, private automatic and
manual branch exchanges and special
telephone sets)                                    1.6
II. Long-distance network equipment (trunk
overhead lines and wire junctions,
Sarawak microwave link)                           1.4
III. Telegraph and telex equipment (Kuala
Lumpur automatic exchange and accessories)         0.3
IV. Miscellaneous (transport, tools and
mechanical aids, power and wiring access-
ories, equipment for accounting and
billing)                                           o.6
V.  Engineering and planning services                    0.1
VI. Unallocated                                           0 4
Total     4.4
Estimates are based upon recent experience in purchasing similar equip-
ment; the contingency allowance is about 10% of the total, which is
reasonable.



-16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
6.o0      All equipment and materials to be purchased with the proposed
Bank loan will be obtained on a basis of international competitive
tenders according to the Bank's guidelines and the Bank loan would
finance exclusively imported goods and services procured after approval
of the proposed loan.   Construction works would take place until the
end of 1970.
6.o5      Disbursements under the Bank loan would be about US$0.8
million in 1968;  US$1.8 million in 1969 and in 1970.    Disbursements
would be made against presentation of the usual documents evidencing
the expenditure of the foreign exchange for import of equipment,
materials and services.   If any savings in expenditure are realized
over estimated costs, the unused balance of the loan would be cancelled
unless the circumstances prevailing at the time the decision has to be
taken provides good grounds for applying the savings to justified items
in the plan or additional works.
VII.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Demand for Telecommunication Services
7.01      Present average telephone density is 1.45 telephones per
hundred population reflecting densities in West Malaysia, Sabah and
Sarawak of 1.46, 1.44 and 1.1 respectively.  IVhile these are higher
than in other developing Asian countries, such as Ceylon with 0.44 and
Thailand with 0.28, they are relatively low when conmpared with 6 tele-
phones per hundred population for the entire world and 16 or 50 for
industrialized countries such as Japan and U.S.A.   The potential for
telecommunication development is still high in Malaysia, for both local
and long-distance systems and, since 1963, the demand for telecommuni-
cation services, in particular for new telephones, has been consistently
more than could be met.   In 1964 during preparation of the First
Malaysia Plan, a National Telephone System Planning Committee was
formed with the DGT as chairman to assess the requirements and to plan
the development program and its execution.   Development proposals by
the Committee were prepared in the most conservative manner and limited
to essential requirements to meet the present high demand for service.
These proposals were included with first priority in the Five Year Plan.
The Government considered the telecommunication projects as being part
of the long-term development of the basic infrastructure in Malaysia
and essential to economic development and activity, to the improvement
of living conditions and public administration in communities and
populated areas, as well as for the maintenance of law and order and
other civil functions.   The following is an outline of the present
outstanding demand for services which justifies the program and on
which the project is based.



- 17 -
Local Telephone Service
7.02      Past and forecast growths of the demand for telephone service
in West Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak are shown in Annexes 8 to 10.    Growth
rate in number of telephones throughout iMlalaysia has averaged about
12% per year during the period 1949 to 1961.    Despite the continued high
demand for telephones from 1962 to 1967, financial limitations, especially
the lack of adequate amounts of foreign exchange, have kept telephone
growth rate at an average of 9.2% which is below the demand level.    As
a result, the number of waiting applications for telephones in WJest
Malaysia alone has more than doubled since 1961 to 9,578 at the end of
1967 (i.e. about 8% of the total installed); the backlog throughout
Malaysia is now more than 11,800 lines or two years of installation at
the 1967 rate.   Actual demand is currently estimated to be much higher
than this figure as long waiting periods tend to discourage many pros-
pective customers from registering.   The high demand is also evidenced
by the abnormally high calling rate of 17.1 per day per subscribers' line
in Kuala Lumpur and an average of 15.0 in West Malaysia.    This is nearly
four times the calling rate in the U.S.A. and more than two times that
of European countries such as France and the Netherlands where average
times for meeting demand compares with Malaysia.    Traffic congestion
has developed from such high calling rate resulting in service down-
grading and in accelerated wear of existing installations whose extension
is therefore urgently required in many cases.
7.03      In order to estimate the growth of demand in future years
systematic surveys of telephone service were made by TDM staff with the
assistance of ITU experts.   Various categories of customers (residential,
business, Government and paystations) and growth trends in each group
were considered, together with waiting applications and specific projects
of urban and industrial development and of land settlement under the First
Malaysia Plan.   Annual demand for new direct exchange lines was estimated
at 11% of the total installed telephones in Vbst Malaysia, 13% in Sabah
and 10% in Sarawak, and the proposed installations are planned to meet
the essential demand of the surveyed requirements.    At the present stage
of high demand and limited growth of the facilities, essential demand
for services, mostly from commercial, professional, business and Government
subscribers, is estimated at about 80% of the requirements.    These growth
estimates are prepared on the basis of realistic and conservative
assumptions.   The methods used in these surveys and the results are
reasonable and satisfactory for purposes of this report.
Long-Distance Service
7.o4      During the past five-year period, the use of long distance
domestic telecommunication facilities in West Malaysia and the concurrent
total demand for service have been growing at a rate approximately twice
the growth rate in number of telephones.    This resulted essentially from
extensions in high quality circuits and from the introduction of STD
facilities on principal routes wiich, as usual, have stimulated higher usage.
While growth of demand for traffic continued in 1966 and 1967, the normal
expansion of the systems was severely curtailed by inadequate capital invest-
ment and this resulted in a downgrading of service due to traffic congestion



- 18 -
in most long-distance connections.   Existing circuits are insufficient,
resulting in frequent congestion on certain routes, and large areas of
the interior are serviced insufficiently or not at all.    There is actually
a serious danger of a breakdown in the operation of part of the STD system
such as the links from Kuala Lumpur to Singapore and to the West Coast, if
necessary circuit extensions are not realized in the near future.    More-
over, the 600-channel microwave link in operation since 1959 between
Kuala Lumpur and Singapore does not meet when utilized at full capacity,
as it is at present, the most recent quality requirements for international
circuits which are commonly accepted by the Members of the International
Telecommunications Union.   Traffic to and from the SEACOM cable system
could be refused When routed on this link which would result in an almost
complete communications cut off from the rest of the world.   The micro-
wave equipment therefore must be renewed with increased capacity and the
proposed program is designed to meet these essential requirements.
7.05      The present service in Sabah and Sarawak falls short in both a
minimum acceptable quality and the number of circuits on all existing
routes.   Project proposals to remedy the situation were surveyed and
worked out by a team of ITU experts during 1965.   Due to the high cost
involved for a microwave system and to the need for coordination with the
road building program in Sarawak which would give access to the proposed
new station, main construction works under the present program were
limited to the initial sections, at Kuching and Kota Kinabalu, of the
future backbone microwave route that will replace VHF links between the
principal traffic centers in East Malaysia.
7.C6      A concrete example of the increase in traffic which can follow
an improvement in service is given by the recent experience of the SEACOM
cable between East and West Malaysia.   Traffic between Sabah and kest
Malaysia has increased 13-fold from 3,500 paid minutes in 1964 using HF
radio circuits to 45,500 minutes in 1966 using the improved and more
adequate SEACOM facilities.    Subsequent annual growth in 1967 was 20%
and present traffic estimates show that inter-regional traffic from
Sabah to West Malaysia and Singapore in 1970 would require twice the
present number of circuits between these areas.    Potential inter-
regional traffic between Sarawjak, West Malaysia and Sabah was assessed by
direct comparison with the known position between Sabah and West Malaysia.
The requirements to and from Sarawak in 1970 were estimated at more than
12 channels to West Malaysia and Singapore, and 10 channels to Sabah
which is reasonable.
7.07      The need for long-distance telecommunication facilities in
Malaysia has been carefully surveyed and based on the records of present
operations and by the forecast telephone growth in the various regions.
Forecasts and development proposals are based on previous experience of
existing facilities and on detailed studies which were made to define the
essential requirements and a balanced expansion of the system.    These
estimates are reasonable and realistic.   The proposed construction schedule
is satisfactory.



- 19 -
Telegraph and Telex
7.o8      The average annual growth of domestic and international, telegra-ph
service has been about 8% between 1961 and 1966 with relatively lower rates
in West Malaysia due to the high quality telephone service.    Demand for
international service to countries of the South Asia and Pacific areas has
recently developed.   Traffic growth will be enhanced through modernization
and rationalization programs for telegraph service presently under way.
The average annual rate of growth of domestic and international telex
messages was 35% for the initial period of operation since 1959.    A more
moderate annual growth of 20% was assumed for the future increase in sub-
scribers and messages, which is considered reasonable.
International Telephone Service
7.09      With the provision of high quality submarine telephone cable systems,
the demand for overseas international telephone service has increased by
about 30% during the past two years.   The present capacity of the SEACOM
cable is estimated to meet the need for additional intercontinental circuits
from Malaysia and Singapore in 1970 and even beyond.   Future growth trends
are being studied on a world-wide basis by the Commonwealth Telecommunication
Board of the U.K. in which Malaysia participates and the use of satellite
communications is actively considered.   The demand for service to neighboring
countries and to others in South Asia and the Pacific Region is presently
limited to a few radio telephone circuits which will be served by the
Radio Center under construction near Kuala Lumpur.
Television and Other Services
7.10      The successive stages of the National TV Development Project are
designed to extend TV service to wider areas with better reception and are
closely coordinated with the telecommunication program.    In the present
program a permanent microwave TV circuit on the East Coast link nould
replace the channel provisionally operated between Kuala Lumpur and Kota
Bharu on VHF equipment.
7.11      Improved telecommunication facilities all over Malaysia will
reduce the demand for specialized radio telephone service to remote areas
where land settlement, agriculture and forestry projects are being developed.
At present, expensive equipment is used in areas with inadequate tele-
communications to provide limited service.    In addition to cost, this
creates technical problems such as radio frequencies availability.    Ex-
tension and improvement of public telecommunication systems will replace the
need for such specialized solutions.   Some of the equipment released
thereby will be reused to meet the demand in more remote areas until the
public service develops further.



- 20 -
Economic Aspects
7.12           The teleconmunmication development program included in the
First Mlalaysia Plan represents about 3e1% of the public sector capital
expenditure and L16/o of the total fixed capital formation. This compares
favorably with other developing countries where similar programs are
carried outo
7,13      A cost-benefit analysis is presented in Annex 110   A rini.xmrli
economic rate of return has been calculated for each sub-program in East
and lWest Malaysia and for the whole program. The benefits of each sub-
program can be considered as "minimum econamic benefits" since the rev-
enues are a minimum estimate of the consumer's marginal value of telephone
serviceo Moreover, no attempt has been made to assess any indirect benefits
attributable to the program. Annex 11, page 3, presents the flocws of costs
and benefits together with the probability distribution attached to each
expected rate of return. The calculations show that the increased revenue
from the new investment would yield an expected mininaum economic return of
1703% in West Malaysia, 10.4% in Sarawak and 9e3% in Sabah, There is a
100% probability that the returns in West Malaysia and Sarawak will exceed
the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 9%, but in Sabah there is a
23% probability that the return may fall belou 9%, The expected minimum
economic rate of return for the whole program is 17.2%, reflecting the
heavy share of West Malaysia in the total program.
7.14      The program in East Malaysia consists of extending facilities in
local telephone service and establishing the infrastructure for the long-
distance network, Traffic and average use of equipment at such an early
stage of development will therefore be less than in West Malaysia; revenues
will initiaLly grow more slowly and produce a higher rate of return only
when further development program., similar to the West MEalaysia program
of system extension and sophistication, are carried out, Since tariffs
are not normally adiusted to short-term marginal costs, it is understandable
and acceptable that the minimum economic rate of return be lower in East
Malaysia.
7215      Considering that the opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia has
been assumed at about 9% the proposed program appears economically justified.
VIII, FUTURE FINA1AGES
8.01      The future finances of the TDM have been presented notionally
on a pro forma basis similar to that described in paragraph 3e10o
Financing Plan
8.02      A forecast of the TDM's consolidated sources and application of



- 21 -
funds for the five years 1968 to 1972 is attached as Annex 17, supported
by similar statements in Annexes 18, 19 and 20 relating to West I4alaysia,
Sabah and Sarawak respectively.   Financial requirements for the three
years 1968-1970 during which the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed
and the Forecast Sources of Funds are surmmarized as follows:
Requirements                                 M$ million  US$ million  %
Construction program                        14l4.7        48.3     92
SEACOM investment (balance)                   2.2          0.7      1
Future program                               10.0          3.3      7
Increase in working capital                   0.6          0.2
Total requirements                      157.5        52.5    100%
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                    123.7         41.2     78
Less: debt service                           (15-9)        (5-3)   (10)
Less: notional payments to Government        (13.0)       (LL)      (8)
Net internal cash generation             94.8         31.6    60%
Borrowings
Proposed Bank loan                            13.2         4.4       8
Bilateral loans and suppliers credits:
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank           20.1
5-3/4% Japan loan 1967                1.5
Bilateral loans and suppliers
credits - 1968                     18.3
Future bilateral loans                9.6   49.5         16.5     32
Total sources                           157.5          52.5  100%
8.03      During the three-year construction period 1968-70 the internally
generated funds (net of debt service and notional payments to government)
would finance about 60% of the total requirement of funds, 8% would be
financed by the proposed Bank loan and 32% from bilateral financing.
The notional payments to government represent the funds available to
TDM in excess of requirements during the period.
8.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$4.4 million is assumed to be for
a term of 20 years, including a three and a half year grace period and to carry
interest at 6.5% interest rate.   The terms of the bilateral financing
arrangements in 1968 are stated in paragraph 5.08. The future bilateral
loans are assumed for 15 years carrying interest at 6.5%.   Further loans
in the years follo-w,ing the Bank program to finance future expansion are
assumed on terms of 20 years and carrying 6.5% interest rate.



- 22 -
Future Operating Results
8.05      Forecast income statements consolidating the three MIalaysian
telecommunication regions for the five years 1568-1972 are shown in
Annex 13.   Separate statements for West IJalaysia, Sabah and Sarawak
are at Annexes 14, 15 and 16 respectively.
8.o6      The forecast of revenues for 1968 (Annex 13) through 1972 is
based on existing tariffs and does not consider possible revenue
increases from the improved charging plan which may be introduced in
Sabah and Sarawak (paragraph 2.08).
8.07      The construction program should produce an improved quality
in trunk line facilities, a relief to the congestion and delays on the
lines, a higher volume of traffic and increased revenues.    The increased
tempo of construction will involve increases for depreciation on new
plant installed wviich may exceed the more gradual growth of revenue from
subscribers.   The effect of this is seen in the consolidated income
statement (Annex 13) which shows negligible variation in the annual net
income during the years 1968 to 1971 and a downward trend in the rate
of return.
8.o8      Overall returns (Annex 13) would decline from 9.9% in 1968
to 7.5% in 1971 before turning up to 8.1% in 1972.    West Malaysia
(Annex 14) would continue to earn overall returns in excess of the 8%
proposed in the rate covenant (paragraph 3.04).    In all three regions
prospects for improved earnings are favorable due to higher marginal
returns expected from the proposed capital additions and an improved
charging plan in East Malaysia.
Future Financial Position
8.09      Forecast notional balance sheets for the TDM as of December 31,
1968 through 1972 are shown in Annex 12.
8.10      For the purpose of this report it was assumed that the new
TDM accounting system might commence operations in 1971.    The 1971 and
1972 projections assume that the fixed and current assets, current
liabilities and long term indebtedness would be transferred to the new
accounts and that Government would provide TDM with sufficient cash to
ensure adequate uorking capital and to enable it to assume responsibility
for discharging unpaid current liabilities.
8.11      The value of net plant in service would increase from M$197
million in December 1967 to M$323 million by 1972, an increase of about
64% over the 1967 amount.   The bulk of this increase will be made in
West Malaysia.   In Sarawak net plant would more than double its value
to M$31 million by 1972, and Sabah would show a similar pattern.    The
Goverrment's investments in the commonwealth cable organization referred
to as "SEACOM investment", in the balance sheet, is incorporated with
the average net assets in the base for calculating the rates of return.



- 23 -
8.12      The total equity which showed an annual growth of about 10%
to 1967 reduces to an annual rate of 5% by 1970, after adjusting it by
the funds retained by Government each year.   The 1971 and 1972 pro-
jections assume the TDM would meet its capital requirements from its
own resources and by borrowing on commercial terms.
8.13      The ratio of long term debt to equity would reach 17/83 at
the end of the construction period.   This comparatively low ratio
reflects the high proportion of assets financed from internally generated
funds.   It also indicates that additional borrowings to finance future
capital outlay could be supported without impairing the financial
position of the TDM.
IX.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      The program is technically sound and well designed to meet
the essential needs for the expansion of the public teleconmunications
services in Malaysia.   Estimates of costs are reasonable;  procurement
procedures and arrangements for the execution of the program as well
as financing proposals are satisfactory.   The TDM is well organized
and its operations are efficient.   The Department is capable of
realizing the proposed expansion and well prepared to operate the new
facilities.
9.02      The program is economically justified within the general frame-
work of the First Malaysia Plan and the proposed Bank project would
produce an internal rate of return well above the opportunity cost of
capital in Malaysia.
9.03     WVhile the existing telecommunications department is well
administered, the system of accounting maintained in accordance with the
present Government Treasury regulations and budgetary procedures do not
provide adequate financial information and meaningful financial data
essential to more efficient management of a revenue earning public
utility.   This lack of financial information emphasizes the need for
the telecommunication services to be placed on a commercial basis.
9.04      The combined financial results of the three regional depart-
ments have been satisfacotry during the past few years.    Forecasts of
the future financial position show that the overall position of the
Department would remain sound.   The arrangements for financing the
program are satisfactory and the Department would be able to meet a
reasonable proportion of the financial requirements from its own funds
during the execution of the construction program. An appropriate
tariff covenant was agreed upon during negotiations.
9.05      It has been agreed during negotiations that while the TDM
will remain a Government Department, the Government will establish an
effective system of accounting and financial management for TDIM by



- 24 -
December 31, 1972.   For this purpose it will arrange for suitably
qualified experts and officials to make a study in accordance with a
specified timetable and terms of reference; agreement on these points was
reached bet-ween the Bank and the Borrower during negotiations.
9.06      The program forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$4.4 million, with a term of 20 years including a grace period of
three and a half years.
August 20, 1968



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOi4ONICATIONS
List of Principal Functions Exercised by the TDM
and Significant Data on its Responsibilities and Activities
I. Principal Functions of the TDM
1.  The Department exercises the telecommunication monopoly in Malaysia
which is ruled by the Telecommunications Ordinance No. 28 of 1950
including miscellaneous amendments and supplements.
2. The principal task of the TDN is to establish and operate facilities
needed for providing telephone, telegraph and telex services within
the Federation as well as to and from other countries.
3. The TDM also provides the following miscellaneous services:
(a) inter-region television (TV) program links, for the
Broadcasting Department of the Ministry of Information;
(b) private telephone and telegraph circuits and installations,
manual and automatic private branch exchanges (P.B.X. and P.A.B.X.);
(c) fixed and mobile radio telephone networks for private cars
and remote areas, communities or estates, for the police and
fire services, National Electricity Board, public works,
Malayan Railways, Meteorological   services, press recepticn
and broadcast, drainage and irrigation department, customs,
land settlement and dam authorities, and various other
Government and non-government organizations;
(d) radio-navigational aids for the Department of Civil Aviation;
(e) ship-to-shore telephone and telegraph services, marine
coast and port communications;
(f) control of the radio frequency spectrum, frequency
monitoring, interference to reception and registration
of frequencies;
(g) licensing of radio dealers and amateur radio transmitters,
ship's radio licenses and certificates for ship operators;
(h) advisory and engineering assistance on telecommunications to
several Government departments and other organizations.
4. Training schemes for engineering and operational personnel at the
Telecommunication Training Center (TTC) of Kuala Lumpur and
vocational training courses at Kota Kinabalu in Sabah.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5. Representation of the Government in international telecommuni-
cation companies and organizations such as the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU), the International Telecommuni-
cations Satellite consortium (INTELS.4T), and the Commonwealth
Cable Management Committee of which Malaysia is a member as
a partner in the South East Asia Commonwealth Cable (SEACOM)
which provides Malaysia with direct telecommunication links to
the rest of the world and between West Malaysia and Sabah.
II. Basic Data as of 1967 and for the 1966-1970 Development Program
See attached table.



M4LAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Basic Data as of 1967 and for the 1966-1970 Development Program
WEST
MALAYSIA    SABAH   SARAWAK   TOTAL   REMARKS
PLANT AND TELEPHONES IN SERVICE (end 1967)
- No. of telephone stations of all kinds in service         123-5     8.8       9.3   141.o   in thousands
- No. of main subscribers' lines                             75.0     5.4       5.7    86.1   in thousands
- Per cent automatic lines                                   89.0   100.0      95.0    90.0
- No. of telephone exchanges                                292      26        56     374
- No. of long-distance circuits                             2,900    82        90     3,072
- Total mileage of long-distance circuits                   14O.O     6.8       8.5   155.3   in thousands of miles
- Per cent automatic long-distance traffic                   55.0    15.0       0             approidmate per cent
- No. of telex subscribers                                  170       4         0     17h
- Average yearly growth rate in total no. of
telephones duri.ng past 5 years                           '9.0    13.0      10.0     9.2   approximate per cent
TOTAL STAFF - (end 1967)                                    7,830   610       600     9,040   including labor forces of
about 45% of total
ASSETS VALUJE AND REVENUE - (end 1967)
- Net fixed assets                                          172.o    13.0      11.3   196.9   in millions of M$
- Average capital cost per telephone                        1,h20   1,480     1,215   1,hJ)   in M$
- Total revenue (1967)                                       70.5     4.1       14.3   78.9   in millions of M$
DEMAND - PROPOSED EXPANSION AND ESTIMATED COSTS (1966-1970)
- No. of waiting applications for telephone (end 1967)      9,600   l,o8O     820    11,500   end 1967
- Proposed yearly growth rate in telephone lines             11.0    13.0      10.0    11.0   estimated average growth
in service                                                                                 in per cent
- Prooosed increase in no. of installed telephone line       19.8     7.2       I,.    61.1   additional capacity of
units (end 1970)                                                                           exchanges in thousands
- Construction costs of 1966-1970 expansion program         157.6    25.8      22.9   206.3   in millions of M$         m
- Proposed Bank Loan portion of construction co.ts           22.0      .4       6.6    33     in millions of M$         .'
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA: DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF WORKS
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DIRECTOR     GENERAL                              |_        NATIONAL TELEPHONE
SYSTEM PLANINING COMMITTEE
STATISTICS AND ECONOMICS                                _
SECTION                                                     DEPUTY
(COST ANALYSIS AND PROJECTIONS)
I CONTROLLER                            I                    DIRECTOR    GENERAL
I ASSISTANT CONTROLLER
DIRECTO                                                             I                                  I 
ADMINISTRATION/                                DIRECTOR                              DIRECTOR        I              I                   DIRECTOR                                             DIRECTOR
TRAINING                                    PLANNING                             EXTERNAL                        I                  OPERATIONS                                           ACCOUNTS
Controller     Contrcller     ControllIr    C  tlor        Cntrle         Controller     Contrlle       2 ReQ-i1ona    7 Regi l       contle         Controllr CAstrollr           Cntrllr       Sen
T--nlg         Ad-eioit-o,    T.lephrne     Teleoo--       Tolephoes .o..   ORersen                     OD,sin-         0loi6--       stare org     Croffi0        L-ne           RnOr           Accorrot-
SYsem Ploro-g                 Tele.graph    CrTs-s-o-       omeiclin        SOSOh 0-0      Malone       W.rlk,h.pO
7 CMnrrhir6
Aesloteot  Ass stone     Assivt-        Asst A-m       An s-t         a-nrnter       A-oil-         A-si-rt        Ann stoo      A-silO-        AnVlt.leOo     A-W-isn        Ass -lot       4o,-nlor
Controllers  Controllers  ~~Contrll-r  Castr  len   C-ntrol em     C-mt-olr       C-orolr       Cntoler        Coerrll-r       otrlr         Contoler       Coorroler        Irie-          at
7 Pasts        2 Fonts        2 Posts        3 Peers       SPOol          5 PasIs        S Posts        12 Port        28 PFor        S P-sl         7 Posts       A. Fot           P-St
(Enginee  ogl  (EreNoeig     lErinorinl      Eog ...... g  (Egi  --tig)   I Eeg  -,eisg  tEngin--ig)     Co,g noro       OiOt01       Eroine-rrg)  ~ T,oll (IErgi--no      noEg -en-gn
I Poe                                                                                    2 Posts           er           7 PenI       6 Fort
(Trottil                                                                                 (Traffic I      (Tra.tr,       (Troll cI      lm
z
z
M-hO 1968                                                                                                                                                                                                  '191037   0



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
BASIC REPRESENTATIVE TARIFFS
Representative tariffs presently applicable to the principal telecommunication services
in West Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak are given in the tables below:
WAEST MALAYSIA
(A)  Rental of Telephone Lines within 2-mile radius of exchange
(a) A business line including instrument     M$ 22.50  per month
(b) Residential line including instrument    !I$ 15.00 per month
(c) Extension lines including instrument
up to 5 chains of wiring               M$  4.375 per month
(3) Telephone call charges
(a) Local call (in excess of 100 free calls per month) .10 cts per call untimed
(b) Trunk calls, per 3 minutes
within 30 miles radial distance        M$  0.30 (or 3 x .10 cts call units in
STD service)
between 50-100 miles radial distance   M$  0.90 (or 9 x .10 cts call units in
STD service)
between 250-350 miles radial distance IM$ 3.60 (or 12 x .10 cts call units in
STD service)
(C)  Telegraph - Urgent Domestic Telegrams             .20 cts per word (M$2 minimum)
(D) Telex and Private Teleprinter Services
(a) Telex lines and standard teleprinter
within 2-mile radius of exchange       M$137.08  per month
(b) Private teleprinter main line annual
rental per radial mile                 M$ 70.00  per month
SABAIH 1/
(A)  Rental of Telephone Lines
(a) Business service (first line) -        210.00 p.a.
(b) Business service (additional lines) - 180.00 p.a.
(c) Residential service -                  168.00 p.a.
Additional rental, dependent on the route distance from the exchange, is charged
on those services located more than 2 miles radially from the exchange.



ANNEX3
Page 2
(B) Telephone Call Charges
(a)  Local calls                      - no charge
(b)  Trunk calls
Exchanges up to 10 miles apart - no charge
Exchanges beyond 10 miles apart - for every 3 minutes, or part thereof,
the charge is calculated at the rate of 2 cents per mile, for each mile
beyond 10 miles. Between 6 p.m. and 7 a.m. concession rates at half
normal rates apply. Apprcximately 66% of all services in Sabah are
business services.
(C)  Telegraph - Domestic Telegrams                            .10 cts per word (M$l minimum)
SA~RAWAIK 1/
(A)  Rental o1 Telephone Lines
There is no distinction between business and residential sub6cribers.
Rental charged varies depending on whether or not continuous service is provided.
Basic rental at any exchange providing continuous 24 hours service is M$204 per
annum and on exchanges with office hours working is M$14h p.a. Additional rental,
depen-ent on the route distance from the exchange is charged on those services
located, more than two miles radially from the exchange.    The additional rental is
at the rate of 1.$24 per auarter mile per annum.    (Note N$3.03 = US$1.00)
(B) Telephone Call Charges
(a)  Local calls - no charge
(b)  Trunk calls - Sarawak is dividced into five Divisions.    Trunk calls within
Divisions or between adjacent Divisions are charged at the rate of one cent
per radio mile for three minutes. Flat rates are charged for calls between
non-adjacent Divisions, the rates being M$2.00, M$3.00 or M$4.00 for three
minutes depending on the distance between the Division. Between 6 p.m. and
8 a.m., concession rates at half normal rates apply.
(C)  Telegraph - Domestic Telegrams                            .10 cts per word (M$1 minimum)
1/   A revision of the telephone tariffs in Sabah and Sarawak is being studied in
view of eventual unification of telephone call charges throughout Malaysia.
August 16, 1968



ANNEX li
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT CF TELECOM1UNICATIONS
Terms of Reference for a Study on the System of
Financial Management and Related Matters for the
Telecommunications Department
The Telecommunications Department will continue as a Govern-
ment department.  To enable this department to function with maxim.um
efficiency, it is essential that a study be undertaken which will
provide an effective system of financial management and the necessary
managerial tools for determining the value of investments, revenue and
expenses from various operations and other data which are vital to
successful business operations.
Such a study should consider, but not necessarily limit itself
to the following:-
(1) Design and installation of commercial accounting system
which will employ accrual accounting to the fullest
extent as it pertains to assets, liabilities, capital,
surplus income and expense;
(2) A system of budget control, synchronized completely with
the accounting structure, which will enable management
to properly project income and expenses, investment in
facilities and other assets;
(3) A system of financing the operations of the Telecommuni-
cations Department which employs the use of revolving
funds, working capital/funds, or such other desirable
financing techniques, as are appropriate or useful to
commercial type operations undertaken by a Government
department;
(4) The financial system for ensuring that the debts of the
Telecommunications Department are properly serviced; in
particular, consideration should be given to introducing
an earnings-test type of debt limitation provision on
internal borrowings of the Department which is usually
included in World Bank loans;
(5) The policy and methods for implementing such policy, of
appraising or determining the values of fixed assets
and appropriate depreciation rates therefor presently
owned by the Telecommunications Department;



ANNEX4
Page 2
(6) The foundation upon which revenue rates will be established
and the criteria to be employed such as (1) average net
fixed assets, (2) net fixed assets plus working capital or
(3) such other basis as may be selected, taking into account
also the provisiocs of Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement.
(7) A time-table for the scheduled implementation of the
financial management policies and systems adopted as a
result of the studies of the subjects discussed in the
preceding paragraphs;
(8) Solutions to the problems of recruitment and training
of staff in order that the provisions of the systems so
designed will be implemented -with efficiency and economy;
(9) A system of review and control by the Government which
will enable it to assess the validity of all financial,
physical and operating projections together with manage-
ment effectiveness.
August 16, 1968



WNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECO1MUNICATIONS
Outline of Principal Items of TDM's Expansion
Program Under the First Malaysia Plan (1966-1970)
Exchange Telephone Facilities
1.        As a result of a study by the National Telephone System Planning
Committee (see paragraph 7.01 of the report), and after internationial
tendering of the telephone switching equipment requirements under the Plan,
a common control unit system using crossbar switches was selected for
future automatic telephone network.   One experimental exchange of 2,000
lines was completed in 1966 and a contract with L.M. Ericsson, of Sweden,
has been entered into in March 1967 for the local and trunk switching
equipment under the Plan.   Some step-by-step equipment of the existing
type will be provided for the extension of existing exchanges and is to
be supplied, mainly by General Electric Co. (G.E.C.) the former supplier
of England, after negotiation of the price.   Foreign currency component
under Ericsson contract would amount to about US$7.2 million equivalent
for which a medium term credit was obtained from the Svenska Handel Bank
of Stockholm.   G.E.C. equipment would be Government financed.   No Bank
financing is required for this part of the program.
2.        New crossbar type equipment in 48 telephone exchanges involving
about 62,000 new local line units, and automatic equipment of the existing
step-by-step type would be installed as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Malaya   Sabah   Sarawak    Total
Additional Lines in
Main Exchanges
Crossbar type (LME)                 50,000   5,600     3,300   58,900
Step-by-step type (GEC)              5,500   1,000        -      6,500
Sub-total                 55,5oo   6,600     3,300   65,4oo
Number of exchanges                    31       6         4       41
Additional Lines in
Rural and Minor Exchanges
Crossbar type (LME)                  2,800      -         -      2,800
Step-by-step type (GEC)                400     600        800    1,800
Sub-total                  3,200     600       800    4,6oo
Number of exchanges                   34        8         21      63
Total newly installed lines         58,700    7,200     4,100   70.0OO
Manual lines retired from service    8,900                       8,900
NET ADDITION OF LINES               49,800    7,200     4,10o   612100
In addition, manual equipment totalling 2,800 lines from exchanges con-
verted to automatic service will be used again to extend existing
installations in about 100 other minor exchanges.   No Bank financing
is envisaged for this part of the program.
Subscribers' Networks
3.        Expansion of the exchange automatic equipment, requires
extensions and improvements to the network to enable additional sub-
scribers to be connected.   A substantial proportion of this investment
is in local line plant which includes underground telephone cable and
duct networks, overhead wire and cabling in the subscribers' premises.
WJhile some equipment and materials are produced locally, imported
materials such as wires, large capacity telephone cables, telephone
instruments, manual and automatic telephone branch exchanges and power
supplies would be purchased under international competitive bidding.
These materials involve an expenditure of US$6.2 million equivalent in
foreign exchange of which US$1.6 million would be financed under the
proposed Bank loan, principally for covering overhead subscribers' line
equipment, private automatic and manual branch exchanges and special
telephone sets.



ANNEX 5
Long-distance Networks                                        Page 3
4.        The principal long-distance network facilities included in
the program are the following:
(a) main microwave systems of 960 channels ultimate capacity
in West Malaysia, to interconnect Kuala Lumpur-Kuantan-
Kuala Trengganu and Kota Bharu (East Coast route); also
between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore;
(b) spur microwave systems of medium channel capacity in
IDst Malaysia to serve group and zone telephone centers
along the West Coast microwave route two of which have
an ultimate capacity of 600 channels, three 300 channels
and seven 120 channels;
(c) Jahore Bahru-Kuching scatter system with an ultimate
capacity of 60 channels initially equipped at 16 circuits
to interconnect West Malaysia and Sarawak;
(d) microwave systems of 300 channels capacity in East Malaysia,
to interconnect Kota Kinabalu-Sandakan-Tawau in Sabah;
also between Kuching and Sibu with a branch to Simanggang,
in Sarawak;
(e) VHF and UHF radio systems of 12 to 36 channel capacity
between main trunk or transmission centers and smaller
group centers in heavily forested regions in Wrest and
East Malaysia, 13 new systems are involved in Malaya,
3 in Sabah and h in Sarawak;
(f) short coaxial and voice frequency cable systems, between
the radio stations of the microwave and VHF networks,
usually located on hills and the carrier station located
in the exchange building;
(g) carrier and multiplex equipment for the above systems
and for rearrangements on existing routes;
(h) openwire carrier systems, including twelve 12-channel
and six 3-channel links;
(i) recovery of the existing VHF and HF radio equipment and
its reinstallation on routes of intermediate capacity
requirements;
(j) subsidiary cable and overhead long-distance routes and
junctions between the large capacity radio systems and
nearby communities economically served by ground means,
including rearrangement of some openwire routes.



ANINEX 5
Page 4
Details of the existing and proposed long-distance links and networks
are shown on maps at the end of this report.
5.        Facilities included in the program are essentially based on
the use of techniques and equipment of types widely used for several
years in the existing long-distance networks of the TEM. They involve
the provision of additional high and medium capacity microwave radio
systems, VHF and HF radio equipment, voice frequency and carrier
frequency cables and overhead pole routes between telephone exchanges.
These routes are providing the exchanges with the circuits required to
handle the long-distance telephone calls to and from the subscribers
through manual or automatic switching equipment. Circuits for trans-
missions of radio and TV signal modulations are directly interconnected
frcm the terminal transmission center of the link to the TV transmitters
or to the TV program centers. All proposed systems and projects are
being or have been studied and specified in detail by TDM's staff and
would meet the standards recommended by the International Telecommunication
Union. The methods used in estimating the quantities of circuits and
type of equipment and in planning and scheduling projects are based on
TDM's past experience and are well accepted internationally.
6.        The preparation of projects for long-distance links, their
delivery and installation, require periods from 12 to 18 months. An
important proportion of the proposed projects was ordered during the
first two years of the 5-year program such as the Kuala Lumpur-Kuantan
microwave link, seven spur microwave routes, multiplex equipment for the
systems and certain cables. Otlher important projects for main routes
comprise: main microwave links in West Malaysia between Kuantan and
Kota Bahru, between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore; and in East Malaysia, between
Kota Kinabalu-Sandakan and Tawau in Sabah, between Kuching and Sibu in
Sarawak; as well as spur routes to the new and existing systems and the
Jahore Bahru-Kuching scatter link. Government has arranged, or is
arranging, bilateral financing for most of these items.
7.        One important item in the program, the Jahore Bahru-Kuching
tropospheric scatter system was included to meet the demand for service
between Sarawak and West Malaysia, and the rest of the world after 1970.
The tropospheric radio link was chosen as a step towards the final
interconnection between the three regions of Malaysia. This solution is
based on careful technical and economic considerations. Tropospheric
scatter radio systems are telephone transmission systems using high
transmitting powers and were developed to provide long span no-relay com-
munications of intermediate capacity (less than 120 channels) over regions
where uniform and required propagation conditions in the VHF band are
experienced such as over the sea. Propagation tests have proved
favorable and equipment based on the survey results would form part of
the project.   A supplier's credit is being arranged to finance this
system.
8.        Long-distance networks involve an expenditure of US$10.7 million
equivalent in foreign exchange of which US$1.4 million would be financed
from the proposed Bank loan, principally covering projects for network



ANNEX 5
Page 5
facilities under above item 8(j) and the Kuching Sibu microwave link in
Sarawak which is presently being surveyed.
International Telephone
9.        The construction of transmitting and receiving stations for
HF radio communications at Klang in West Malaysia will be equipped
with modern facilities for international telephone and telegraph services.
Three 30 kw high frequency single side band radio transmitters equipped
for four telephone circuits, and six 5 kw telegraph transmitters, each
equipped with receivers, antennas, control and power equipment are
being installed for partial operation in 1968. In addition, a small
capacity microwave link would be installed between Penang and Haadyai
in Thailand for connection to the Thai network. The transmitters and
receivers and auxiliary installations to be installed in the HF radio
stations are being financed by internal funds and bilateral credits.
10.       The TDM4 is actively considering installation of a satellite
earth station as part of its expansion program for the international tele-
communication services. So far, only planning expenses and TDM's
participation in the International Telecommunications Satellite
Consortium (INTELSAT) have been included in the 1968-1970 program. The
ITU World Plan Committee has classified Kuala Lumpur as a Transit Center
of Category No. 1 in the world routing plan for international traffic,
and for purposes of forecasting TDM's future financing requirements,
expenditure for the earth station or an equivalent facility is assumed
in a program beginning in 1970.
Telegraph and Telex
11.       The program provides for the extension and modernization of
the telegraph and telex facilities. It includes about 200 teleprinters,
point-to-point leased telegraph circuits, voice frequency telegraph
systems, and switching and control equipment for the Kuala Lumpur
international telegraph and telex centers. The telex exchange in Kuala
Lumpur would be extended by 100 lines and a new international automatic
telex exchange will be installed, which will be financed under the
proposed loan. Telegraph and telex service in East Malaysia would be
improved and expanded.
Other Developments and Works
12.       Under this heading is included the balance of the investment
in SEACOM, and expenditure on acquisition of HF radio installations
including land, buildings and equipment at the Kota Kinabalu radio
station from Cable and Wireless. These costs would be financed from
internally generated funds.
13.       The program also includes an extension of the Training Center
in Kuala Lumpur from the present capacity of 200 students to a maximum
capacity of 300 students. Foreign exchange costs of this project are
being borne directly by the UNDP, the balance from internally generated
funds.



AMEX 5
Page -6
14.       The program also includes new accounting and billing equipment
to develop the present system to cope with the anticipated growth. The
equipment would be housed in a new building and the Bank loan would
provide the foreign currency cost of this installation.
15.       The TDM carries out small routine works to expand and improve
the telecommunication services. They include the redistribution and
extension of existing HF, VHF and UHF radio networks, additions and
rearrangements to existing local and long-distance switching installations,
extension and renewal of open wire lines, equipment and improvement of
radio frequency control centers and of the telegraph offices. The
proposed loan provides for transport, tools and mechanical aids, power,
wiring and other accessories under these works. In addition, capital
expenditures amounting to US$2.2 million equivalent were incurred in 1966
and 1967 for projects carried over from the Second Malaya Plan.
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA
DEPARTHENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ESTIMATED COST OF EXPANSION PROGRAM - EAST AND WEST MALAYSIA (Consolidated)
Under The First Malaysia Plan (1966-1970)
-(In Millions of Malaysian Dollars)-
A C T U A L                               P R O P O S E D
TOTAL OF 5-YEAR PROGRAM      1966            1967               1968            1969            1970
Foreign  Local Total   Foreign Local   Foreign Local       Foreij Tocal   Foreign Local   Foreign Local
Cost     Cost   _      Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost       Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost   Cost
BANK FINANCED PORTIDN
Construction                                 11.70    7.40 19.10                                        2.60   2.20    4.80    2.79    4.30    2.41
Contingencies                                 1.20    o.80   2.00                                                      0.60    0.40    o.60    0.40
Engineering and Planning Services             0.30    0.20   0.50                                                      0.15    o.U     0.15    0.09
Sub-total                         13.20    8.40 21.60                                        2.60    2.20   5.55    3.30    5.05    2.90
OTHERWISE FINANCED PART OF THE PROGRAM
Switching Equipment (L.M.E. Contract)        21.43    6.54 27.97                    1.26    0.90       10.18   3.10    6.69    2.00    3.30     .54
Bilateral and Suppliers' Credits
(being arranged 1968)                      18.30         18.30                                       6.10            5.95            6.25
Future Bilateral                              9.60           9.60                                       1.80           4.90            2.90
Construction Financed by Japan and
U.K. loans                                   2.00    2.60  4.60                    0.50    1.00        1.50   1.60
Otlei Development, Routine Works and
Local Costs (Government Financed)           3L.79   41.25 76.04   10.43    8.90   11.69    7.43       7.23    9.32    3.32   12.88    2.12    2.64
Sub-total                         86.12   50.39 136.51   10.43   8.90   13.45    9.33       26.81   14.02  20.86   14.88   14.57    3.18
TOTAL                             99.32   58.71 158.03   10.43   8.90   13.45    9.33       29.41   16.22  26.61   18.18   19.62    6.08
Sub-total for each year (to one decimal place)               158.0       19.3      -     22.8               45.6            44.6            25.7
Transfer to capital of installation costs by TDM
(portion of salaries, special service expenditures, etc.)    48.3         8.3             9.0                9.8            10.2            11.0
TOTAL CAPITAL WORKS UNDER 1ST PLAN (see Annex 17)            206.3       27.6            31.8               55.4            54.8            36.7
Future Program                                                10.0         -               _-                                 -             10.0
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA
DEPARDTENT OF TELECOWMUNICATIONS
ESTIMATED COST OF EXPANSION PROGRAM - WEST MALAYSIA
Under The First Malaysia Plan (1966-70)
-(In Millions of Malaysian Dollars)-
A C T U A L                                P R O P O S E D
TOTAL OF 5-YEAR PROGRAM       1966           1967                1968            1969            1970
Foreign  Local Total   Foreig Tocal    Foreign Local       Foreign Local   Foreig Eocal    Foreign Local
Cost     Cost           Cost   Cost    Cost    Cost        Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost
BANK FINANCED PORTION
Construction                                  6.00     3.00  9.00                                        1.10    0.75    2.65    1.47    2.25    0.78
Contingencies                                 o.60     0.40  1.00                                                        0.30    0.20    0.30    0.20
Engineering and Planning Services             0.10     0.05  0.15                                                        0.05    0.03    0.05    0.02
Sub-total                          6.70     3.45 10.15                                        1.10    0.75    3.00    1.70    2.60    1.00
OTHERWISE FINANCED PART OF THE PROGRAM
L.M.E. Contract                              16.86     5.1L  22.00                   1.10    0.50        7.63    2.50    4.83    1.60    3.30     .54
Bilateral and Suppliers' Credits
(being arranged 1968)                      13.80           13.80                                        4.40           4.80            4.60
Future Bilateral                              6.50           6.50                                        1.50            3.20            1.80
Construction financed by Japan and
U.K. loans                                   2.00     2.60  4.60                    0.50    1.00        1.50    1.60
Other Development and Routine Works
(Government Financed)                      27.30    32.53 59.83     7.55    7.00    8.65    5.25       6.40    6.32    2.70   12.70    2.00    1.26
Sub-total                         66.46    40.27 106.73   7.55    7.00   10.25    6.75       21,43   10.42   15.53   14.30   11.70    1.80
TOTAL                             73.16    43.72 116.88   7.55    7.00   10.25    6.75       22.53   11.17   18.53   16.00   14.30    2.80
Sub-total for each year (to one decimal place)                116.8       14.5            17.0                33.7            34.5             17.1
Transfer to capital of installation costs by TDM staff
(portion of salaries, special service expenditures, etc.)     40.8         7.1             7.7                 8.1             8.6              9.3
TOTAL CAPITAL WORKS UNDER 1ST PLAN (see Annex 18)             157.6       21.6            24.7                41.8            43.1             26.4
Future Program                                                 10.0         -               -                   -               -              10.0
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA
DE?ARTMENT OF TELLCOCM!UNICATIONS
ESTIMATED COST OF ' XPANSI.N 'RO,RAM - SABAH
Under The First 'alaysia Plan (1966-70)
-(In Millions of Xalaysian Dollars)-
A C r i A L                                P R O P O S E D
TTAL OF 5-YFAR PROGPAM        1966           1967                1968            1969            1970
Foreign  Local  rotal  -Foreign Local  Foreign Local       Foreign Local   Foreign Local   Foreign Local
Cost    Cost           Cost     Cost   Cost    Cost        Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost
BANK FINANCED PORTION
Construction 1/                              1.90    1.60    3.50                                       0.30    0.25    0.95    0.67    o.65    0.68
Engineering and Planning Services            0.10    0.05    0.15                                                       0.05    0.03    0.0c    0.02
Sub-total                          2.00    1.65    3.65                                       0.30    0.25    1.00    0.70   0.70    0.70
OTHERWISE FINANCED PART OF PROGRAM
L.M.E. Contract                               3.L6   1.80    8.66                    0.16    0.l0        1.80   o.60    1.50    0.40
Bilateral and Suppliers' Credits
(being arranged 1968)                       2.L0            2JjO                                       0.90            0.30            1.20
Future Bilateral                             1.80            1.80                                        0.20           0.70            0.50
Government Financed                           3.59   6.48   10.02    1.bO    1.64    1.60    1.22        0.30   2.28    0.12    0.06    0.12    1.28
Sub-total                         10.80    7.88   18.68   1.80    1.68    1.76    1.62        3.20    2.88    2.62   0.86     1.82   1.28
TOTAL                             12.80    9.53   22.33   1.80    1.68    1.76    1.62        3.90    3.13    3.62   1.16    2.52    1.98
Sub-total for each year (to one decimal place)                22.3         3.0             3.8                 6.6            4.8             4.5
Transfer to capital of installation costs by T3M
(portion of salaries, special service expenditures, etc.)      3.5         O.             0.6                0.9             0.7             0.8
TQTAL CAPITAL 'WORKS UNDER 1ST PLAN (see Annex 19)            25.8         3.5             .O                 7.5             5.5            5.3
1/ including contingencies
August 16, 1968



M aJIAYS IA
DEPARTM3NT OF TEL&CO:PI9jNICATlG)NS
EST5IMATED COST OF EXPANSION P-ROGRA.M - SARAWAK
Under The First Malaysia Plan (1966-70)
-(In Millions of Malaysian Dollars)-
A C T U A L                                P R O P O S E D
TOTAL OF 5-YEAR PROGRAM      1966           1967               1968            1969           1970
Foreign  Local Total   Foreign Local  Foreij;Tocal        Foreign Local  Foreign Local  Foreign Local
Cost     Cost          Cost    Cost   Cost    Cost        Cost   Cost    Cost    Cost   Cost    Cost
BANK FINANCED PORTION
Construction 1/                             4.0o     3.20   7.60                                      1.20   1.20    1.-0    o.85    1.70   1.15
Engineering and Planning Services           0.10     0.10  0.20                                                      0.05    0.05    0.05   0.05
Sub-total                         L.5O    3.30   7.80                                      1.20    1.20    1.55   0.90    1.75    1.20
OTHERWISE FINANCED PART OF PROGRAM
L.M.E. Contract                             1.11           1.11                                       0.75           0.36
Bilateral and Suppliers' Credits            2.10           2.1C                                       0.80           o.85            0.145
(being arranged 1968)
Future Bilateral                            1.70           1.7(                                       0.10           1.00            0.60
Government Financed                         3.95     2.16  6.11    L.L6    0.26    1,L1   0.96        0.53   0.72    0.50    0.15           0.10
Sub-total                         8.86    2.16 11.0o2    l,8    0.26    1.1l    0.96       2.18    0.72    2.71   0.15    1.05    0.10
TOTAL                            13.36    5.L6 18.82     1.I8   0.26    1.LN    0.96       3.38    1.92    h.26   1.05    2.80    1.30
Sub-total for each year (to one decimal Dlace)               18.9        1.8            2.L                 5.3            5.3             4.1
Transfer to capital of installation costs by TDM
(portion of salaries, special service expenditures, etc.)    L.O         C.7            0.7                0.8             0.9            0.9
TOTAL CAPITAL WORKS UNDER IST PLAN (see Annex 20)           22.9         2.5            3.1                 6.1            6.2             5,0
I/ including contingencies
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATICNS
ESTIKIATED _OSTS OF THE VOR.S FINANCED BY THE BANK
Under the 1968-1970 leriod of the Program
-(in Millions of iMalaysian Dollars)-
TOTAL COSTS OF BANK PROJECTS        M A L A Y A                  S A B A H                S A R A W A K
Foreign     Local      Total Foreign    Local     Total  Foreign   Local     Total Foreign    Local     Total
Exchange    Exchange   _      Exchange  Exchange         Exchange  Exchange        Exchange   Exchange
Local Telephone
1. Subscribers' networks and installations
(PABX, PMBX, Special Telephone sets and
Overhead Line Plant)                             L.80        3.50    8.30     2.70       1.60   L.30     0.9        o.80   1.70     1.2        1.10   2.30
Long-distance Network
2.  Sarawak Microwave Link                            1.80        1.20    3.00                                                           1.80       1.20   3.00
3.  Cable and Overhead Lines Trunk Facilities         2.b0        1.70    L.10     o.80       o.60   1.4C     0.6        0.50   1.10     1.00       o.60   1.60
Telegraph and Telex
L. Telegraph and Telex Installations
(Automatic Telex Exchange in Kuala Lumpur)        0.°0        0.20    1.1.0    0.90      0.20   1.10
Others
5.  Transport, Tools and Mechanical Aids, Power
and Wiring Accessories                            0.60        0.3C    0.9      0.L0      0.10    0.50     0.10       0.10   0.20     0.10       0.10   0.20
6. Accounting and Billing Project                     1.20        0.50    1.70     1.20       0.50   1.70                                                        |.
7. Engineering and Planning Services                  0.30        0.20    0.50     0.10       0.02   0.12     0.10       0.05   0.15     0.10       0.10   0.20
8. Contingencies                                      1.20        G.80    2.00     0.60 c.LO         1.00     0.30       0.20   0.50     0.30       0.20   0.50
TOTAL COSTS            13,20          .b0   21.60     6.70    X       10._5      2.00      1.64    3.,6t    L._ 7.80
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA: DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PREDICTED GROWTH OF DEMAND FOR TELEPHONE SERVICE
IN THE STATES OF WEST MALAYSIA
300,000   F           I  I     I  I   I  I  I  I    I      I  I   I  I  I  -r-  300,000
200,000                                                                        200,000
DEMAND FOR DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES
(MAIN SUBSCRIBERS)
100,000                                     -GROWTH OF~                        100,000
I__________                          WAITING   LIST  ..*O                    O
80,000                                                s                       80,000
60,000                                    >                                   60,000
40,000                                                                         40,000
30,000                                                                        30,000
/ -     NUMBER OF CONNECTED
30,000               f           DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES                        30,000
000 /~              (MAIN SUBSCRIBERS)
20,000        1                                                               20,000
SEMI-LOGARITHMIC SCALE
10,000   I  I  I  I  I  I   I   I   I   I  I  I    I  I I   I   I I   I   I   I   I I   1  10,000
'48  '50  '52  '54  '56  '58  '60  '62  '64  '66  '68  '70  '72  '74  '76  '78
ACTUAL                      -r,    PROJECTED     ='VW
(ANNUAL GROWTH RATE ABOUT        z
11%)                     z
m
NOTE: DEMAND OF DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES INCLUDES OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS.  (3R)IBRD-3746x



MALAYSIA: DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PREDICTED GROWTH OF DEMAND FOR TELEPHONE SERVICE IN SABAH
100,000     T                                                               I    II
8 0 ,0 0 0  _       ,_,_,_                                           _ _ _ _ __l_l_ _l_l _
60,000
40,000
DEMAND FOR DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES
20,000                                           (MAIN SUBSCRIBERS)
GROWTH OF
< WAITING LIST \. -
10,000                                                     ___           ..**   .
8,000
6,000  X_-=-______
3,000
2,000
_-           ~~~NUMBER OF CONNECTED
2 000 ~~~~~DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES
2,00                           (MAIN SUBSCRIBERS )
1,000 _SEMI-LOGARITHMIC SCALE . ._.
800   ~  I   I   I  I      I            I    I
'58 '59  '60  '61  '62 '63  '64  '65  '66  '67  '68  '69  '70 '71  '72  '73 '74  '75  '76  '77 '78
<                 ACTUAL                >                        PROJECTED
(ANNUAL GROWTH RATE ABOUT
NOTE:DEMAND OF DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES INCLUDES OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS.                           2n
(2R) IBRD-3747 X



MALAYSIA: DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PREDICTED GROWTH OF DEMAND FOR TELEPHONE SERVICE IN SARAWAK
100,000        I                            I       I   I   I   I       I   I ,
80,000
60,000
40,000                                                                                   _  _ _ _ _
30,000
DEMAND FOR DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES
20,000                                         [     (MAIN SUBSCRIBERS)
GROWTH OF   >
WAITING LIST\,
6,000  . . . _ . . . _ __ __   __-
4,000                           >
3,000                              NUMBER OF CONNECTED
DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES
2,000                                (MAIN SUBSCRIERS)
1,000__                                                                                    _ _  _ _
800
-SEMI-LOGARITHMIC SCALE
600     ,   I       , I     I           I       I    I   I                   ,   , 
'55 '56 '57 '58 '59 '60 '61 '62 '63 '64 '65 '66 '67 '68 '69 '70 '71 '72 '73 '74 '75 '76 '77 '78
ACTUAL                                          PROJECTEDROE
(ANNUAL GROWTH RATE ABOUT          >
I1I%)                      Z
NOTE: DEMAND OF DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES INCLUDES OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS.                            z
x
(2R)IBRD-3748 a
0



ANAEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEPARTTENT OF TELECOMUNICATIONS
Cost Benefits Analysis
1.      Table 1 presents the cash flow of each proposed investment
for 20 years, the assumed life of the project.
2.      Capital costs for each sub-program are derived from the Sources
and Applications of Funds Statements, where they are shown under the
years 1968-70 (see Annexes 17, 18, 19 and 20). The benefits are defined
as the additional revenues directly produced by the program minus the
additional operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation, and are
derived from the income statements. Although the estimation of
additional revenues is based on tangible factors, such as the increase
in the number of telephone lines installed and connected, there is a
normal degree of uncertainty attached to these estimates, insofar as it
is not technically possible to separate exactly the revenues directly
produced by the project, and to forecast accurately revenues beyond a
short time period. For purposes of this analysis it is assumed that
revenues could vary + 10% and operating expenses + 5% from the estimates
shown in Table 1.
3.      To assess the influence of risk, a computer simulation has
been carried out on this basis of uncertainty. It has been assumed that
a normal distribution would be an acceptable approximation of the
probabilities attached to the rates of return.
4.      The attached table and the graph on pages 3 and 4 show the
distribution of probability, expected internal rate of return and standard
deviation of each sub-program. To make the three curves easily
comparable, the expected rates of return have been centered on a single
vertical axis of the graph.   The comparison shows that the standard deviation
(U-) around the mean (M, or expected rate of return) is the wider in
West Malaysia. The probability distribution of the consolidated program
would be very similar to West Malaysia considering the latter's relative
importance.
5.      Internal rates of return or interest rates at which the present
value of costs is equal to the present value of benefits, are in fact
internal financial rates of return.  However, since it is estimated
that there is no distortion in the market price mechanism (prices
reflecting the real scarcity value of imports and foreign exchange) it
is possible to consider that the internal rates of return correspond
to a minimum estimation of the economic rate of return, keeping in mind
that no attempt has been made to assess and quantify any indirect
benefits attributable to the program. As mentioned in paragraph 7.13,
the benefits can possibly be considered as "minimum economic benefits"
since the revenues are a minimum estimate of the consumer's marginal
value of telephone service. Many consumers might indeed be prepared
to pay more for the service and therefore the present tariff does not
capture this consumer's surplus.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
COSTS AUD BENEFITS OF THE PROGRAM
TABLE I
Capital                  Operating
SABAH            Years      Costs      Revenues      Expenses     Benefits
1         7.5           .17         .04            .13
2         5.5           .59         .09            .5o
3         5.3          1.12         .15            .97
4                      1.70         .22           1.48
5                      2.20         .22           1.98
6                      2.47         .23           2.24
7.. to                 2.61         .24           2.37
20
SARAWAK            1         6.1           .o6         .03            .03
2         6.2           .52         .o8            .44
3         5.o          1.31         .14           1.17
4                      2.17         .20           1.97
5                      2.32         .22           2.10
6                      2.44         .23           2.21
7..to                  2.57         .23           2.34
20
WEST M4ALAYSIA     1        41.8          1.26         .50            .76
2        43.1          5.86        1.10           4.26
3        36.4         11.96        2.10           9.86
4                     18.96        3.30          15.66
5                     27.26        4.5o          22.76
6                     29.06        4.90          24.16
7                     30.76        5.20          25.56
8                     32.36        5.50          26.86
9..to                 32.86        5.70          27.16
20
TOTAL PROJECT      1        55.4          1.49         .57            .92
2        54.8          6.97        1.27           5.20
3        46.7         14.39        2.39          12.00
4                     22.83        3.72          19.11
5                     31.78        4.94          26.84
6                     33.97        5.36          28.61
7                     35.94        5.67          30.27
8                     37.54        5.97          31.57
9..to                 38.04        6.17          31.87
20



ANNE 11
Page 3
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION
SABAH                      SARAWAK                  WEST MALAYSIA
R*   P(r)**                 R*   P(r)*i                R*   P(r)**
8.4  0.01                   9.4   0.01                15.5   0.01
8.5  0.02                   9.5   0.02                15.6   0.01
8.6  0.03                   9.6   0.03                15.7   0.01
8.7  0.06                   9.7   0.04                15.8   0.01
8.8  0.09                   9.8   0.07                15.9   0.02
8.9  0.15                   9.9   0.09                16.0   0.02
9.0  0.23                  10.0   0.14                16.1   0.03
9.1  0.31                  10.1   0.20                16.2   0.04
9.2  0.43                  10.2   0.28                16.3   0.05
9.3  0.51                  10.3   0.37                16.4   0.07
9.4  0.63                  10.4   o.46                16.5   0.09
9.5  0.73                  10.5   0.54                16.6   0.12
9.6  0.80                  10.6   0.63                16.7   0.15
9.7  0.87                  10.7   0.72                16.8   0.20
9.8  0.92                  10.8   0.80                16.9   0.25
9.9  0.95                  10.9   0.86                17.0   0.30
10.0  0.97                  11.0   0.91                17.1   0.36
10.1  0.98                  11.1   0.93                17.2   0.42
10.2  0.99                  11.2   0.96                17.3   0.49
10.3  1.00                  11.3   0.97                17.4   0.53
11.4. 0.98                17.5    0.59
11.5  0.99                17.6    0.65
11.6  o.99                17.7    0.72
11.7  0.99                17.8    0.76
11.8  1.00                17.9    0.81
18.0   0.85
18.1   0.88
18.2   0.91
18.3   0.93
18.4   0.95
18.5   0.96
18.6   0.97
18.7   0.98
18.8   0.98
18.9   0.99
19.0   1.00
* Internal rate of return.
**. Probability that internal rate of return be less than R.
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA: DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION
P .6
.5 
_                   A        S ~~~~~~~~~~~WEST MALAYSIA cr= 0.l63241
.4
/{S  |    \t_ ~~~~~SARAWAK {t M  4 1064
.3                                                SABAH {  -0.3596
.2
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~           1 .                                          D|
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R* BD-374j 
-  .*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0
M                   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
G)z
(R)IBRD-3764  ' 



DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS - MAIAYSIA
Consolidated Notional Balance Sheets 1966-1972
(In millions of Malaysian Dollars)
1--TATED                                                           FORECAST
Fiscal Year to December 31                        1964          1965          1966             1967          1968           1969          1970           1971          1972
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross plant                                        236.6         263.8         289.0            31'.3         350.0         406.2          460.5         504.0          547.3
Less depreciation                                   75.1          87.6         101.3            ll.4         133.0          151.9         173.6         197.7          223.9
Net fixed plant in service                         161.3         176.2         1b7.7            196.9         217.0          254.3         286.9         306. 3         323.4
Seacom investm,ent                                   5.3           5.3           6.2              7.7           9.9            9.9           9.9            9,9           9,9
Wurk in progress                                     8.7          14.8           16.3            22.3          38.8           37.4          29.8           3o.5          31.5
Total - Fixed Assets                               175.3         196.3         210.2            226.9         265.7          301.6         326.6         346.7          364.8
Current Assets
Cash                                                  -             -             -                -             -              -             -             5.0          1D.8
Accounts receivable                                  8.0           8.0            6.5             8.5           6.5            9.0          10.5           12.0          12.0
Inventories                                          7.6           8.          .S5               8.5           8.5           9.5           10.1          10.6           11.0
Total                                               15.6          16.5          17.0             17.0          17.0          16.5           20.6           27.6          33.8
Less: current liabilities
Accounts payable                                   S.C           6.3            5.5             6.o          1C.0           10.0           9.0            9.0           9.5
Current maturities                                 2.6           2.6            2.6             2.3           3.8            3.3           3.3            4.3           4.5
Total                                                7.6           o.6           0.1              8.3          13.o           13.3          12.3           13.3          14.0
Net current assets less liabilities                    8.o           7.; '. 9                       S.7           3.2           5.2            8.3           14.3          19.8
TOTAL - ASSETS                                         183.3         201.2        21?.1            235.6         268.9         306.6          334.9         361.0          384.6
LIABILITIES
Equity                                                                                                 1/
Capital reserve                                    16o.1         166.6          168.3           166.7 -       159.5          157.5         151.7          156.9         156.9
Retained earnings                                   13.1          26.9           L8.9            66.6          87.0          107.1         126.8          146.0         168.1
Total equity                                       173.2         195.7          213.2           231.3         2h6.5          264.6         278.5          302.9         325.0
Long Term Debt
5-3/4% Japanese loan                                  -             -              -               -            1.4            1.3           1.2            1.1           1.0
6-3/8% - 7% Ul/Malaya loan                          10.            3. 5           5.9             3.3           1.1             -             -              -
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                            -             -             -               1.0           9.7           14.6          15.8           13.7          11.6
IBRD proposed loan                                    -             -             -                -            2.6            8.1          13.2           12.7          12.2
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968         -             -             -                -            5.8           11.5          17.3           16.4          15.3
Future bilateral loans                                -             -             -                -            1.8            6.7           8.9            8.2           7.5
Future borrowing                                      -             -             -                -             -              -             -             6.o          12.0
Total long term debt                                10.1           R.S            5.9            6.3           22.4          62.2           56.6           58.1          59.6
T1 rAL LIABILITIES                                     183.3         208.2         219.1            235.6         268.9         306.8          336.9          361.0         384.6
Debt/equity ratio                                       6/9h          W96            3/97            2/98          8/92          1W/86         17/83          16/84         15/85
Ratio of current assets to current liabilities           2.1           1.9            2.1             2.0           1.2            1.6,          1.7            2.1           2.6
1/   A suwm of M$0.9 million representing profit on revaluation of IK/MIalaya loan arising from 1l.35 devaluation of Sterlbng
August 16, 1968



ANNEX 12
Page 2
MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECO11l4UNICATIONS
Notes and Assumptions on Balance Sheets
1. Fixed Assets
The Telecommunication Department keeps its account on a cash basis
in accordance with the Government Treasury Regulations. It is understood that
the West Malaysian department commenced keeping records of assets in 1958 after
a valuation was prepared by departmental officers. The records have been
maintained, but not as a integral part of the accounting system and neither
checked nor reconciled with the annual expenditure. The values of gross fixed
assets in the opening balance sheets have been compiled in the following manner.
(a)  In West Malaysia, the 1958 valuation of gross plant has been
accepted and adjustments made for subsequent annual capital
development expenditure until 1963, after adjusting estimated
values of work in progress.   The valuation at December 31, 1963
of N1$205.7 million has been accepted as the base for pro-
jecting future gross asset values.
(b) In Sarawak, it is assumed that gross assets amounting to M$11.9
million at the end of 1963 is the accumulation of the annual
expenditure on telecommunication development as extracted from
the accounts since 1947. Immediately prior to this date the
country had been occupied by the Japanese during 1942 to 1945,
so that assets older than 20 years if any existed are presumed
to have been retired.
(c) In Sabah, the gross value of telecommunication assets amounting
to M$h.8 million at December 31, 1963 is assumed as the accumu-
lation of the annual development expenditure since 1958. The
records during the post war years i.e. from 1946 to 1957 show
insignificant amounts of development expenditure. Some additional
equipment was left to the Department by the military after they
completed their operations following the Indonesian conifrontation,
but no records of this plant are available.
2. Depreciation
In West M4alaysia, the accunulated depreciation is assumed at 30% of
the gross asset value as at December 31, 1963. For 1964 and subsequent years,
a composite rate of depreciation of 5% is assumed and calculated on the annual
average gross value of assets. In Sarawak and Sabah, the accumulated de-
preciation at the end of 1963 has been calculated by applying the composite
rate of 5% to the annual averaged accumulation of gross asset values accumulated
since 1947 in Sarawak and 1957 in Sabah. The accumulated depreciation expressed
as a proportion of gross assets at the end of 1963 wias 36% in Sarawak and 19%
in Sabah.



ANNEX lg
Page 3
3.   SEACOM Investment
This item relates to the Malaysian contribution to the South
East Asia Management Committee, the members of which are Australia,
Britain, Canada, Malaya, New Zealand and Singapore.    The contribution
was towards the construction cost of the extension of the Commonwealth
Pacific Cable onward from Australia and known as SEACOM to link up
Hong Kong, Sabah and Malaya with Australia, New Zealand, Canada and
U.K.   The construction commenced in 1961 and was comple-ted in 1966.
4.   Cash
No cash balance is shown in the balance sheets 1964 to 1970
because cash collections are paid into the Government's Consolidated
Fund.   The Department has no separate cash balance of its own.    It
is assu.mecd that cash could be controlled by the Department from 1971.
A cash contribution by the Government of 11$5.2 million in 1971 i1s
assumed to ensure a reasonable cash and working capital position.
5.   Accounts Receivable
Within the department the flow of work to the billing sections
of each region, the actual billing processes and the following up of
unpaid bills are actively pursued and reasonably controlled.    The
level of accounts receivable at the year end is assumed equal to two
months estimated average billings, excluding rentals which are billed and
payable in advance.    In West Malaysia, bills are prepared on the punched
card accounting machines.
6.   Inventories
Stores are of two types:
(a) allocated stores are those the cost of which is charged to a
departmental vote.   Issue of goods on materials from this
type of store either to jobs within the department or to other
departments are normally on a "no cost" basis, while issues for
sale to private persons would include recovery of the cost
and an additional percentage for overheads, customs duty,
and crediting the amount recovered to revenue.    To the
extent that stores charged against a particular vote have not
been used is a measure of the inflated charge against
"operation".   No attempt has been made to assess the value of
these stores.
(b) unallocated stores, which are those the cost of which are
charged to a Store Control Account in the first instance.
When issued the appropriate departmental vote is charged and
the Store Control account is credited.    The balance of the
Stores Control account can be reconciled with the physical stock
of goods.   The values of inventories at the end of years 1964 to
1966 in the balance sheets refer to the actual figures in the
unallocated Stores Control Account.    The stores are generally
well designed and appear well supervised.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
7. Accounts Payable
The amounts outstanding are based on a calculation of a delay of
about two month's after a tradesman's bill or a contractor's bill is received,
until payment is made. Salaries and wiages which are paid promptly, and assumed
depreciation charges are excluded from the calculation.
8. Reserves
(a)  The amount of equity M"I$173.2 million is a balancing figure
in the 1964 Balance between the sum of fixed and current
assets (net of current liabilities) and Long Term Indebtedness.
It is divided between Revenue Reserve 11$13.1 million which
equals the difference between current assets and current
liabilities, and a capital reserve M$160.1 million. The
revenue reserve has increased with annual additions of net
profit as recorded in the Income Statement (Annex 1a), while
Capital Reserve has decreased due to increases in working
capital, and the funds in excess of requirements are being
retained by the Government. It has been increased by the
cash assumed to have been contributed by Government to meet
the shortage of funds against requirements, and to decreases
in working capital.
(b)  No analyses has been made of the 1964 balance of capital
reserve of $160.1 million between the original cost of plant,
profits from earlier operations, and the additional "cash"
contributions by Government to r;eet the shortfall of funds
against the annual requirements.
August 16, 1968



DIPASTME-NT OF TMALIOAYSIAN1ATDONS - 'AAYSiA
Consolidated itatement of   ncompe (1968-27  and 1'orecast Income (196d0-2)
(In millions of Malaysian EIollars)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                                 FORECAST
Year ending December 31                        1964      1965     1966      1967     1968      1969     1970      1971     1972
REVENUE
Telephone
TIrunks                                                    20.(      22.'7    2._       31.2     32.7      35.8     38.7      8?.6     48.2
Rentals                                                    _:.2      21.8     2?.z      23..7    25.3      2/.7     30.8      33.5     37.1
Overseas                                                     .         .6      1.       2.2       2.1       2.3      2.7       2.9      3.2
Other                                                                           7        6.1      6.1       6.8      6.8       7.1      7.2
Total                                                      86.3     51.0      -6.       o3.2     o6.2      71.8     78.6      86.1     95*7
Telegraph                                                     6.O       7.2      6.9       7.3      7.5       7.9      8.2       8.h      8.5
Teleprinter                                                   1.7        .2       3.-      i.6      5.1       5.5      6.8       7.3       8.2
Other government departments                                  O.S       1.1      1.3       1.6      1.7       1.9       2.0      2.1       2.2
Miscellaneous                                                 0.o       1.5      1.5       2.2      2.2       2.2       2.2      2.2       2.2
Total - Revenue                                              7'Y.? '                        .99    ;76                 97.e    106.1    116.8
Talaries and allowances                                      17.    " 2   0          2     3. 2  2    .3     2'.8     29.j      32.3     35.5
Industrial and manlial wages                                  3.                           5."      5.8       7.2      6.8       7.5      8.o
Other recurrent charges                                                                   1. rlC11)          12.2     13.9      15.8     16.8
Dther special                                                 1.7      1.I                 1.9      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
Training 3chool                                                         o- 0.2                      0.3       0.5      0.6                 o.6
Depreciation                                                 11.-      12       13.7      15.1     16.6      18.9     21           1     26.2
Total                                                         1        15                          61.4      67.2     7b3          9      887
Transfer - special expenses to capital                       (1.)      (i.1)    (1.I.5)   (1.7)    (1.8)     (1.8)     (1.8)    (1.8)     (1.8)
- salaries expenses to cap-tal                      (5.3)    (6.0)     (6.8)     7.1.)    (7.5)    (8.2)      (8.9)   (9.2)     (9.3)
Indirect charges not otherwise charged to Tele0rr             6.):      7. .3 3.           5 .7     9.3      12.1     10.9      12.1     13.0
Total - Exoenses                                             :1.7 -             93.0      56.6     61.8      67.3     78 .5     83.0     90.6
NET INCOME (before interest)                                    13.9     16.5      16.6     22.3      21.3     22.3      22.9     23.1      26.2
Less interest                                                 0.8       0.7      0.6       O.6      0.9       2.2       3.2      3.9       4.1
Net profit during year                                       13.1      15.8     16.0      21.7     20.L,     20.1      19.7     19.2.     22.1
Rate of return (h) on average net fixed assets                  8.0       9. -f3.`          11.1      .i.9      9.1       8.2      7.5       o.1
Operating ratio (expenses as perce--.tage of inczsme)           75                 76       72       7u        75        77       78        78
Number of lines (in thousands)                                  78.2     79.l      51.6     86.1     ,92.7    101.7     112.8    125.1     139.5
Average rental oer line ($ Malayan)                           27'       274      279       ?7.      2.73      272       270      268       268
Average revenue per line ($ Malayan)                          628       6e2      691       73       718       7406     697       688       686
Times interest covered sy net income                           17.0      23.6      27.-     31.7      23.7     10.1       7.1      5.9       6.4
August 16, 1968
FD 



4NNEX 13
Page 2
MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Notes and Assumptions on Income Statements
1.        The consolidated revenues and expenses represent the com-
bination of the figures in the three regional statements referring to
West Malaysia, Sarawak and Sabah, assuming the three regions are admini-
stered as one Government Telecommunications Department. The figures of
revenues in West Malaysia have been reconstructed to represent income
which would accrue during the year as distinct from receipts, the
expenses are assumed to represent expenditure incurred for goods
received or work done as distinct from the payments made. In the
East Malaysian territories, the receipts and payments were not analyzed
but are assumed to represent "income and expenditure".
2.        Assumptions for revenue projections:
In West Malaysia - (Annex 14)
Telephone
Trunks - forecast increase 5% in 1968 rising to 9% by 1971 and
13% in 1972
Rentals - 10% p.a.
Overseas - 12i p.a. to 1969, 15% in 1970 and 10% p.a. thereafter
Telegraphs - 4% to 1969 and 2% thereafter
Teleprinter - approximately 12½-p% p.a.
In Sabah (Annex 15)
Telephone - annual increases of 10% to 1971 with trunk revenue
increasing to 15% in 1972
Telegraph - 20% increase in 1969 falling away to 16% in 1970 and
14% in 1971
In Sarawak (Annex 16)
Telephone
Trunks - no growth to 1968 then 40% in 1969, 33% in 1970, 25% in
1971 and 13% in 1972
Rentals - expansion of 18% to 1969, 15% in 1971 and 11% in 1972
Telegraph - small increase to 1968 after which telephone traffic
gradually replaces its use and a small downward trend
of revenue is anticipated
Teleprinter - small increase to 1969 and 5% thereafter



ANNEX 13
Page 3
3.        Assumptions for projection of expenses:
West Malaysia (Annex 14)
Salaries and wages - increase by 7½2% p.a. to 1970 and 10% thereafter
Other charges - 71M to 1969, 15% in 1970, 124 in 1971 and 10% in
1972
Sabah (Annex 15)
Salaries and allowances - increase 71j p.a. to 1970 and 10%
thereafter
Other charges - increase 63J p.a. to 1970 and 10% in 1972
Sarawak (Annex 16)
Salaries and wages - increase by 10% to 1970 and 9% thereafter
Other charges
4.        The annual charge for depreciation is calculated at an assumed
composite rate of 5%o on the annual average gross fixed assets (paragraph
2 of Annex 12).
5.        Special expenses contain items of a capital nature which are
additional to those included under the construction program. They
represent assets with hypothetical lives in excess of one year, and
have accordingly been transferred as "capital expenditure".
6.        The item indirect charges not otherwise charged to the
Department represents expenses which have been borne by other government
departments. These expenses could be accepted as proper charges to
the Department's operations. They include such items as staff pensions,
gratuities to non-pensionable employees, hospital expenses and medical
expenses of staff their wives and families, staff housing. They also
include other charges to represent the cost of audit, the cost of legal
work performed for the Department, delivery of oostal packets normally
allowed free to a government department and rental of buildings occupied.
The charge introduced to cover these costs is an assumed 30% of the
salaries. The percentage is most affected by the element of cost
included for pension and this will depend upon future decisions regard-
ing pension schemes for the staff of the proposed inde7endent entity.
7.        The item of transfer of salaries etc.   to capital expenditure
arises because salaries of staff etc., are classified under personnel re-
current charges in the Government budget, and no provision is made for
apportioning part of the salary of an employee to canital construction.
This apportionment is assumed at 30% of the salary and allowances. This
apportionment was discussed with officers of TDM, but in the absence of
any data it can only be regarded as an intelligent guess.
August 16, 1968



0- PAR1TM;LN T  T8' TELS!,C -OHNMUNI I" T 135$3- IE6T NMAL AY" IA
Statement of   incomro (1)6.5-67) aridi Fore:cast IncomE (196b-72)
(In millions of Malaysian Dollars)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                                FORECAST
Year ending December 31                              1965      1965      1966     1967      1958      1969     1970      1971      1972
REVENUE
feiepi one
Trunks                                                      12.1      1 2      12.5      13.2      30.2     32.3      3L5.9     38.0     53.0
Metered                                                      7.0       3.2     11.'      35.6        -                            -        -
Rentals                                                     1,3.1     l.,      20.2      20.8      22.0     25,.0     26.2      28.6     31.5
Overseas                                                     O. 5      0..      'L.0      1.7       1.3      1.7       2.0       2.2      2.4
Miscellaneous                                                          o.o      0.7      0). h      0.4      O.5       0.6       0.6      0.6
Private wire                                                 2).7      3.1      3.        3.9      3.7 r     3.5        3.h.              3.3
Trunks to Singapore                                          J.-,      -        1.6       1.8       2.2      2.5       2.7      3.0       3.2
Total                                                        FT          6 L  .i         37.r±      9-F-_      - 553 -T9 .8     75.8     8K50
Telegraph (including phonogram)                                5.7           6.2   .        a3        5l.6     5.9       7.1       7.2      7.3
TeleDrinter                                                    1.7       3.       30         .0       5.5           5.1  5         6.6      7.3
Other Government Departments                                   0.?3               0.         .        0.6                0.707     07       0.
Misc ellaneous                                                  .        1.       1.        2.?        .   2.2           2.2       2.2      2.2
TOTAL - revr?.nuu                           3;) 7'  ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~                    ~~~~~    ~~~~~~7.-5  o.-J8  -  -737  79.  85.5  92.5  101.6
EKP21SES
Salar-ies and allowances                                      _         17.0     19.       19);      21.2     22.8      25.5      26.9     29.6
Indu)strial and manuial wage,s                                 3.i       s..2                .        5.8      6 .2      6.8       7.5      8.0
Other recurrent charges                                        -.-        ...                          .       06       1.        13.5     14.3
Other soecial expenses                                         i..        ..                          2.0      2 .0      2.0       2 .0     2.0
fraining school                                                 -                             e       03        .5       0.5       o.6      0.6
Depreciation                                                  loi1 ~             1.         ..5      l;-6     16.3      18.5      20.5     22.1
Total                                                         '77.  .1 ;1        .'!. 1.8               '-   -7- 3E--T-3 65.3     70.9     76.6
Transfer - special exoenses to capi tal                       (1.31)    (1        15       (1.7)     (1.8      1)       (1.8)     (1.8)     (1.8)
Transfer - Salarie~s emtc. charged to capital. contribution's 0.)       (5.1)     (.7)     (6.0      (6.3)     (6.8)    (7.5)     (7.6)     (7.6)
Indirect charges not otherwise charged to 'e',lecem            55.7     6b         73       7.6       6.i      8.7       9.5      10.5     11.2
TOTAL - E perkses                                             3.o        d-7    -,,77 - 52.0  s'  7.7  53.-7  '7` .L aJ5         72.0      78.4
NET INCOME (beflore interest)                                   12.9      15.6      1        ' 20.6    20. 0     20.8     21.0      20.5      23.2
Less Interest                                                  0.        D.~ 7              n.b       0.8      1.5       2.2       2.5      2.3
Net prof'it during yer                                         2.                 I 1      20.2     179.2      19.3     1b.b      1b.0      20.9
Rate of return                                                 8.1       0.,           iT~     a     3C50 7    10.1      9.        8.1        .
Operating ratio (ex 3enses as percentage of income)1                    73~      7'-       70.6     7113 .0   751       76        78        77
Nurnber of' telephone lines (in thousands)                    65.       6.7       71.-     7-*o      80.0      87 .0C   96.0     10)6.0    118
Number- of' telephones (in thousan4ls)                       12.       125.8)    1,); 170  l    . 0  13~6.0 l) 1.0     13.       180.0     200.0
Akverage rental per line (in P2                              277      77.       23        27~      2)75      2 75     7273       270       268
Averag,e 'Oncome per line (in MS)                            55z2      5(577              7(        7 07     739       727      715        710
Number of aeleohones per line                                 J6          .7       16         .        .         . 1.7        1.7            1.7 
Outstanding applications     1/6,c03L                                7,056      P~378,  9,600          -         -        -         -         -
Times i-nterest covered by ne't oo~:!rztinir iIoel.                     22 .0r    25.      3y25.0              13.9      9.5       8.2      10.1 
1/ aiting list to he absorbed by 1)71.
August 16, 1968



TDEPARTMENT 0I' T7FLECOWit'TTICATIONS - SABAH
Statement of Income (1964-1967) and Forecast Income (1968-72)
(In millions of Malaysian Dollars)
ADJuSTD AC rUAL                             FORECAST
Year ending December 31                              1        196   - 1966      1967     196?     1969     1970     1971     1972
REVENUE (Receipts)
Telephone
Trunks                                                  0Q7       1.0      1.0      1.1      1.2      1.3      1.4      1.6      1.8
Rentals                                                  0.9      1.1      1.2      1.h      1.5      1.6      1.8       2.1     2.5
Overseas                                                  -        -       0        0.5      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.7      0.8
Miscellaneous                                             -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
Total                                                    1.       2.1      2 .6     3.0      3.3      3.6      k.O      4.5      j.2
Telegraph                                                  0.o      0.1      o.1.     0.5      0.c      o.6      0.7      0.&       0.8
Teleprinter                                                 -        -        .1      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3
Other government departments                               0.L,     0.k      o.6      0.7      0.8      0.8      0.9       1.0     1.0
Total - Revenue                                            2.8      2.9      3.7      4.3      4.7      5.2      5.8      6.5       7.3
EXPENSES (Payments)
Salaries and allowances                                    1.1      1.3      1.6      1.7      1.8      2.0      2.1       2.3      2.6
Other recurrent charges                                    o.5      o.6      0.8      0.8      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.0       1.1
Depreciation                                               0.3      O.k      0.5      0.7      0.9      1.2      1.5      1.8      1.9
Total                                                      2.2      2.3      2.9      3.2      3.6      4.1      4.6       5.1      5.6
Indirect charges                                           0.3      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.8
Proportion of salaries to capital                         (0.3)    (0.1)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (o.5)    (0.6)    (0.6)     (0.7)    (0.8)
Total - Expenses                                           2.2      2.3      2.9      3.2      3.6      4.1l     4.6       5.1      5.6
NET INCOME (before interest)                                 o.6      0.6      0.3      1.1      1.1       1.1      1.2      1.4      1.7
Less Interest-                                                                -        - -0.1           0.3       0.5      0.7      0.9
Net profit during year                                     0.6      0.6      0.8      1.1      1.0       ().6   (0.7)     (0.7)    (0.8)
Rate of return                                              10.0      9.4      9.2      9.6       7.3      5.5      1..9     5.0      5.6
Operating ratio                                             ?9                717 7h            77        79       79       78       77
Number of lines                                          k,2L1Ih  b,506    )j,935   5,1.on   5,900    6,650     7,600    8.600    9,800
Average rental per line ($Malayan)                         212      21.0     203      25L       268      2L.1     237      2414     245
Average revenue per line ($Malayan)                        377      k66      527      545      559      5)11      526      523      520
Times interest covered by net income                          -        _                        11.0       3.7      2.4      2.0      1.9
August 16, 1968



DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS - SARAVIAK
Statement of Income (1964-1967) and Forecast Income (1968-72)
(In millions of Malaysian Illsrs)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                             FORECAST
Year ending December 31                                1964      1965     1966     1967     1968      1969     1970     1971     1972
REVENUE
Telephone
Trunks                                                     1.0      1.2      1.3      1.3       1.3      1.8      2.4       3.0      3.4
Rentals                                                    1.1.     1.3      1.4      1.5       1.8      2.1      2.4       2.8      3.1
Total                                                      2.1      2.5      2.7      2.8       3.1      3.9      4.8       5.8      6.5
Telegraph                                                    0.5      o.6      0.5      0.5       0.14     0.       0.4      0.44      0.4
Teleprinter                                                   -        -       0.4      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      o.6
Other Government departments                                 0.2      0.14     0.5      0.3       0.3      0.4      0.14     0.1       0.4
Miscellaneous                                                0.1       -                  -                 -    -             -        -
Total - Revenue                                              2.9      3.5     14.11      4.1      4.3      5.2      6.1       7.1      7.9
EXPENSES
Salaries and allowances                                      1.1      1.7      1.9       2.1      2.3      2.6      2.8       3.0      3.3
Other recurrent charges                                      0.7      0.8      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.8      0.9      0.9       1.0
Depreciation                                                 0.6      0.7      0.7      0.9       1.1      1.4      1.7       1.9      2.2
Total                                                        2.1      3.?      3.3      3.7       4.1      4.8      5.4       5.8      6.5
Indirect charges                                             .-4      0.5      o.6      o.6       0.7      o.8      0.8       0.9      1.0
Proportion of salaries etc., to capital                     (0.3)    (0.5)    (0.6)    (0.6)     (0-7)    (0.8)    (0.8)     (0.8)    (0.9)
Total - Expenses                                             2.5      3.2      3.3       3.7      4.1      4.8      5.4       5.9      6.6
NET INCOME   (before interest)                                 0.11     0.3      0.8       0.4      0.2      0.4       0.7      1.2      1.3
Less
Interest                                                      -   -         -        -             -       o.4      0.5       0.7      0.9
Net profit during year                                       0.1      0.3      0.8       0.4      0.2       -       0.2       0.5      0.4
Rate of return                                                 4.8      3.6      8.6       3.8      1.2      2.0       3.0      4.6      4.8
Operating ratio                                               86       91       80        90       95       92       89        83       83
Number of lines                                            4,707.   5,224    5,360    5,700     6,800    8,000    9,200    10,500   11,700
Average rental per line ($M)                                 249      249      261       263      265      263      261       267      265
Average revenue per line ($M)                                         478      504       h91      456      487      522       552      556
Times interest covered by net income                          -                           -         --       1.0      1.4       1.7      1.4
August 16, 1968



DEPAHTMIENT CF TELECOMMUNICATIONS - MALAYSIA
Consolidated Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
(In millions of Malaysian Dollars)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                                              FORECAST
Fiscal Year to December 31                                196L        1965        1966           1967       1968         1969        1970         1971        1972
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income (before interest)                                  13.9        16.5        16.6           22.3       21.3         22.3        22.9         23.1        26.2
Depreciation                                                  11.5        12.5        13.7           15.1       16.6         18.9        21.7         24.1        26.2
Cash generation                                               25.1i       29.0        30.3           37.4       37.9        411.2        4l.6         17.2        52.4
Borrowing
41-3/8 - 7% UK/M¶alaya loan                                    1.0         1.0          -            0.5          -            -           -            -           -
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                                      -           -           -             1.1       10.1          6.7         3.3           -           -
IBRD proposed loan (excluding interest)                         -           -           -              -         2.6          5.5         5.1           -           -
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968                   -           -           -              -         6.1          6.o         6.2           -           -
Future bilateral loans                                          -           -           -              -         1.8         1,.9         2.9           -           -
5-3/14% Japanese loan                                           -           -           -              -         1.5                       -            -           -
Future borrowing                                                -           -           -              -          -            -           -           6.o         6.o
Total - borrowing                                                1.0         1.0          -             1.6       22.1         23.1        17.5          6.0         6.o
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                            26.,       30.0         30.3           39.0       60,.0       61.3         62.1         53.2        58.4
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital construction
Construction program                                          111.5       25.8        18.1:          21.3       113.41      14.6        25.7           -           -
Transfer - salaries apportioned to capital works               5.3         6.0         6.8            7.1        7.6          8.2         8.9          9.1         9.2
- special expenditure                                  1.3        1.7          1.5           1.9         2.2         2.0          2.1         2.1          2.1
Seacom investment                                              2.0          -          0.9            1.5        2.2           -           -            -           -
Future program                                                  -           -           -              -          -            -         10.0         33.0         33.0
Total - capital works                                         23.1        33.5        27.6           31.8       55.14        514.8      146.7        414.2        14.3
Debt service
Amortization
14-3/8 - 7% UKAIalaya loan                                   2.6         2.6         2.6            2.6        2.2          2.2         1.1           -           -
6-3/14% Svenska Handel Bank                                   -           -           -              -         0.3          1.2         1.8          2.1         2.1
IBRD proposed loan                                                                                              -            -           -            -          0.5
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968                 -           -           -              -          -           0.3         0.3          0.4         0.9
Future bilateral loans                                                                                                       -           -           0.7         0.7
5-3/4% Japanese loan                                                      -                          -          -           0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1
Interest
11-3/8 - 7% UKAalaya loan                                    0,          0.7         0.6            0.5        0.3          0.1          -            -           -
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                                    -           -           -             0.]        O.11         1.0         1.2          1.2          1.1
IBRD proposed loan                                            -           -           -              -         0.2          0.11        0.7          0.9         0.8
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968                 -           -           -              -         0.1          0A          0.7          0.9          0.9
Future bilateral loans                                         -          -           -              -          -           0.2         0.5          o.6          o.6
5-3/4% Japanese loan                                           -          -           -              -          -           0.2         0.1          0.1         0.1
Future borrowing                                               -          -            -             -           -           -            -          0.2         0.6
Total debt service                                              3.14       3.3         3.2            3.2        3.11         6.0         6.5          7.2         8.14
Variation in working capital assumed                                 -        (0.1)         1.0          (0.5)       (11.0)       1.5          3.1         7.0          5.7
Excess or (deficit) of sources of funds over applications
assumed as cash payment to or (by) government                    (0.1)      (6.7)        (1.5)          11.5        5.2         2.0          5.8        (5.2)         -
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                         26.1       30.0        30.3           39.0       60.o         64.3        62.1         53.2        58.14
August 16, 1968



DEPARTMENT OF TELECOFSMMUNICATIONS - WEST MALAYSIA
Sources and Applications of Funds
(in millions cf MiaLaysian Dollars)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                                              FORECAST
Fiscal Year to December 31                         1961        1965         1966           1967        1968         1969         1970         1971         1972
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income (before interest)                                    12.9        15.6         15.0           20.8        20.0         20.8         21.0         20.5         23.2
Depreciation                                                    10.6        11.          12.5           13.5       1i.6          16.3         18.5         20.4         22.1
Cash generation                                                  23.5       27 0         27.5           30.3        30.6         37.1         39.5         40.9         45.3
Borrowing
4-3/8 - 7% UK/Malaya Credit                                      1.0         1.0           -             0.5          -            -            -            -            -
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                                        _     -            -                   1.1         7.6          4.8          3.3           -
IBRD proposed loan (excluding interest)                           -           _      -                    -          1.1          3.0          2.6           -
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968                     -           -            -              -          4.4          4.8          4.6           -
Future bilateral loans                                            -           -            -              -          1.5          3.2          1.8           -
5-3/4% Japanese loan bilateral                                    -           -            -              -          1.5           -            -            -
Total - borrowing                                                  1.0         1.0                         1.6        16.1         15.6         12.3           -           -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                              24.5        28.0         27.5           35.9        50.7         52.9         51.8         40.9        45.3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital works
Construction program (excluding interest)                       12.1        20.'3        13.6           15.5        31.5         34.5         17.1           -            -
Transfer - salaries etc. apportionment to capital works          h.7         5.1          5.7            6.0         6.3          6.8          7.5          7.6          7.6
Special expenses                                                 1.3         1.0          1.4            1.7         1.8          1.8          1.8          1.8          1.8
Seacom investment                                                2.0          -           0.9            1.5         2.2                        -            -            -
Future program                                                    -           -            -              -           -            -          10.0         25.0         25.o
Total - capital works                                           20.1        27.3         21.6           24.7        41.8         43.1         36.4         34,4         34.4
Debt Service
Amortization
4-3/8 - 7% UK/Malaya Credit                                    2.6         2.6          2.6            2.6         2.2          2.2          1.1           -
6-3/0% Svenska Handel Bank                                      -           -            -              -          0.1          0.9          1.4          1.7          1.7
IBRD proposed loan                                              -           -            -                          -            -            -            -           0.2
Bilateral lcans and suppliers' credits - 1968                   -                                                               0.1          0.1          0.2         0.5
5-3/4% Japanese loan                                            -           -            -              -           -           0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Future bilateral loans                                          -           -            -              -           -            -            -           0.5          0.5
Interest
4-3/8 - 7, UK/Malaya Credit                                    0.e         0.7          o.6            0.5         0.3          0.1           -            -
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                                      -           -            -             0.1         0.3          0.7          0.9          0.9          0.8
IBRD proposed loan                                              -           -            -              -          0.1          0.2          0.4          0.5         0.4
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968                    -          -            -              -          0.1          0.2          0.4          0.6          o.6
Future bilateral loans                                          -           -            -              -           -           0.2          0.4          o.4          0.4
5-3/4% Japanese loan                                            -           -            -              -           -           0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Total debt service                                                3.4        3.3          3.2            3.2         3.1          0.8          0.9          5.0          5.3
Variation in working capital assumed                                  -          (0.1)        1.,)            .1          -           1.8          2.0          8.7          5.2
Excess or (deficit) of sources over applications assumed as
cash payment to or (by) government                                 1.0        (2.5)         1.7            7.9         5,8          3.2          8.5         (7.2)         0.4
T3TAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                          24.5        20.0         27.5           35.9        5.7         52.9         51.8        J0.9          45.3
August 16, 1968



DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS - SABAH
Sources and SA   tifosofuds
(In millions of Malaysian Dollars)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                            FORECAST
Fiscal Year to December 31                               1       1         1966     1967     196d     1969     1970     1971     1972
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income (before interest)                          o.6       .6       .8      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.2      1.4      1.7
Depreciation                                           .3       .4    _  .5       .7       .9      1.2      1.        1.'    1.9
Total                                                0.9      1.0      1.3      1.5       2.0      2.3      2.7      3.2     37
Borrowing
6-3/4'± Svenska Handel Bank                           -         -        -        -       1.8      1.5       -        -        -
IBRD (proposed) loan excluding interest               -        -        -        -       0.3       1.0      0.7
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968         -        -         -        -       0.9      0.3      1.2       -
Future bilateral loans                                -         -        -        -        .2      0.7      O.5 5
Future borrowing                                      -        -         -        -        -        -        -       3.0      3 .
Total Borrowings                                      -        -        -         -        2     3.5        2.h      3.0      3.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                   0.?       1.0      1.3      1.3      5.2      5.8      7.1      6.2      6.6
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital cons truction
Construction program                                 1.2      2.2       3.o      3.h      6.6      4.3       .        -        -
Transfer - salaries apportioned to calital             .3       .4       .        .5       .6       .6                .7       .7
Transfer - special expenditure                        -         .2       -        .1       .3       .l       .9       .2       .2
Future proeram                                        --                                   -        -        -       4.°     4L.
Total - capital construction                         15      2.         3.5      4.o      7        5.5      5.3      4.q      4.9
Debt service
Amortization
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                           -        -        -        -       0.1      n.2      0.3      0.3      0.3
IBRD proposed loan                                  -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -       0.1
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968        -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2
Future bilateral loans                              -         -        -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1
Interest
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                          -         -        -        -       0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      O.2
IBRD proposed loan                                  -        -        -        -        -        -       0.1       0.1     C0.1
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968       -         -        -        -        -       0.1      0.2      C.2      0.2
Future bilateral loans                              -        -         -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1
Future borrowing                                    -        -         -        -        -       -         -       0.1      0.3
Total - debt service                                -         -        -        -       0.2      o.6      0.9      1.2      1.6
Variation in working capital assumed                       -       _           _             (2.0)    (0.2)     0.5     (1.0)     0.3
E:xcess or (deficit) of sources assumed as cash
payments to or (by) government                        (0.6)    (1.8)     (2.2)   (2.2)     (0.5)    (0.1)    (1.6)     1.1     (0.2)
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                               0.9      1.0       1.3      1.8      5.2      5.8      5.1      6.2      6.6
August 16, 1968



DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS - SARAWAK
Sources and Applications of Funds
(In millions of Malaysian Dollars)
ADJUSTED ACTUAL                             FORECAST
Fiscal Year to December 31                             1964     1965     1966     1967     1968     1969     1970     1971     1972
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income (before interest)                        0.4      0.3      0.7      0.4       .2       .4       .7      1.2      1.3
Depreciation                                        0.6      0.7      0.8      0.9      1.1      1.4      1.7      1.9      2.2
Total                                               1.0      1.0      1.5      1.3      1.3      1.8      2.14     3.1      35
Borrowing
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                           -        -        -        -        .7       .4       -        -
IBRD proposed loan (excluding interest)              -        -        -        -       1.2      1.5      1.8       -
Bilateral loans and suppliers'  credits - 1968       -        -        -        -       0.8      0.9      0.4       -
Future bilateral loans                               -        -        -        -       0.1      1.0      0.6       -
Future borrowing                                     -        -        -        -        -        -        -       3.0      3.0
Total - Borrowing                                     -       -        -        -       2.8      3.8      2.8      3.0      3.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                  1.0      1.0      1.5      1.3       4.1     5.6      5.2      6.1      6.5
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital construction
Construction program                                1.2      2.8      1.3      2.4      5.3      5.3      4.1       -
Salaries - apportionment to capital                   .3     0.5      o.6      o.6      0.7      0.8      o.8      0.8      0.9
Special expenditure                                   -      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
Future program                                                -        -        -        -        -        -       4.0      4.0
Total - capital construction                        l.5      3.4      2.5      3.1      6.1      6.2      5.0      4.9      5.0
Debt service
Amortization
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                          -       -        -        -       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
IBRD proposed loan                                 -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       0.2
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968       -        -       -        -        -       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2
Future bilateral loans                             -        -        -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1
Interest
6-3/4% Svenska Handel Bank                          -        -        -       -        -       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
IBRD proposed loan                                  -        -       -        -        -       0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3
Bilateral loans and suppliers' credits - 1968       -        -        -        -       -       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
Future bilateral loans                              -       -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1      0.1
Future borrowing                                    -        -       -        -        -        -        -       0.1      0.3
Total - debt service                                -       -         -       -       0.1      o.6      0.7      1.0      1.5
Variation in working capital assumed                      -        -        -      (0.6)   (2.0)    (0.1)     0.6     (0.7)     0.2
Excess or (deficit) of sources assumed as cash
payments to or (by) government                        (0.5)    (2.4)    (1.0)    (1.2)    (0.1)    (1.1)   (1.1)     0.9     (0.2)       0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                               1.0      1.0     1.5      1.3       4.1     5.6      5.2      6.1      6.5
August 16, 1968



, HAADYAI
.  >  r  jf              s~   n                                M A L A Y S I A
/ ', 4                  \              DEPARTMENT    OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
<  .- :'/  "              X                           WEST MALAYSIA
-1 1}   .   <   <:-DEVELOPMENT          PROGRAM     (1966-1970)
z  LANGKAWI  AR       *          Q '                     MICROWAVE & V. H. F. SCHEMES
P LAN,. AW                           0 j**      KOTA BHARV
(INCLUDING LINKS TO SINGAPORE)
ALOR STAR  .          .
N.  \\         * . . .   *.         //   E GUNOING  PANCHOR
. EDAH PEAK
B7.BRAKAX -
/  \\                    1~~~~~~~~~~~/ RT.RINTAN4Ga
/  '  S PATANI \    9 GRIK
PECANG  BUTTERWORTH \K Z                                      CUALA TRENGGAN U
TAIPING X MAXWELL HILL K,
K.KANGSAR  \K_              1     
LDNG                  BR[NBINCH NG            UT.BU 
OL.  RERAM  /TLA            CAMERO
. (  / 2   2BTH  MILE   ~~~HIGHLANDS
\  /   (KAMPAR)                   bT.KEMUSPIN E
SIITAWAN M   CA\AIT.
VHF. TV LINK  \                 KUALA LIPIS
. SX E PANS.     61ST MILE  , S
ULU BERNAM          ( TROLAK)  \                         I
. MICROWAVE TERMIL S N                  LEMBING       PLD  G
. EXCHANGE  -T.NANANA
\ VNF.  EERRNA  ST NBUKI1 IBAM
PULAU KETAVM  AR     LUMPUT 
HIGH CAPACITY MICRORAYX LINKG           PAtJ
MICROWAVE MAIN LINK (MEDIUM CAPACITY)
K KMICROWAVE SPUR   LI NK  ET.BEMBA    N kG   U HI LL         \               RLMPINQ
HIGH CAPACITY V.H.F. TELEPHONE LINK  \   EREMA-        I  N                 s
V.H.F . TV LINK                    I >   0 R                T    H9 
------ V.H.F. GEC EQUIPMENT (5 OR  9 CIRCUITS)  \                  v T.JINSIR       \
MICROWAVE TERMINAL STATION                  \ \      /            \t             SINGC
MN MICROWAVE  REPEATER  STATION
53EXCHANGE_ \ 
V .H.F . TERMINAL STAT ION                             X      LAGE    .LAMBAK       \
0  V.H.F. REPEATER STATION                                   \i         \' 
= CABLE                                       =       G.P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ULAI ' 
PROPOSED LINKS                                          BATU PAHAT' \
HIGH CAPACITY MICROWAVE LINK                                             \  ,           |
K IXSMIALL CAPACITY MICROWAVE & SPUR LINKS                      PONTIANKCI-O-j PENGERANG
~~- FUTURE MICROWAVE LINK-                                                     S 9   6  j_
El  NEW MICROWAVE REPEATER STATION                                      M.  F     B    Ak;
O            SO         100R MILES
APRIL  19S8                                                                                     IBRD  - 2232R



MALAYSIA
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Long Distance Network and Numbering Plan
of West Malaysia
taKon g ar * ,Nr              X
KOTA BHARU
PENAN      =-       Baling       /    |   \>
a_Mra.- . . ,. ..  .......K.Trengganu
c\)Prit Buntor/                   ,\ 
Sb.   o</05(2 4 1          \0~~~~7(6-7) t  Dn 
Tai ing                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Dungun
\    0  ~~IPH   st   / - ......\. 
KUALA ILUMa Lipis   075
Telr Enxchang
9  *-  \  >| //2  \  __KUANT~~KANTA
o  03(2-9) C   Exchange
Kuala Selango r,,/D 
\ \  ^ tKULA LUMPUR'  .I          \
.Zone Boundary~~~~~~~a
Ka                      n ........... 0>23 ....\ 
B1;  \  8anting  KKl nB         h         K  ,
T              \~~~~~~.-Sremenbon=  K. Pilah,\\
Si\ Rus\                               Mersring
0 Zone Center Exchange             \   /      / agoh 8 
o Group Center Exchange        MALACCAx N-K          U      G    
............ Zone  Boundary                                        7  \\0(2-3-)
<¢.a ot \ \   Kota Tnggi
Main Backbone Microwave Route
- -- - Planned Main Microwave Route
Ponti        ~~~~Pen garang
Existing & to be Extended Trunk & Junction Routes                  ORE
SINGAPORE
March 1968                                                                 IBRD-2233



MALAYS I A
DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                                                                                     Z2
SABAH & SARAWAK
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                          (1966-1970)                                    ,_
TRUNK & JUNCTION TELEPHONE NETWORK                                                                  SeACC/
o     NEW AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE EXCHANGE
0     EXTENSIONS TO EXISTING AUTOMATIC EXCHANGE
*  RURAL EXCHANGE
PROPOSED 300 CHANNEL MICROWAVE LINK ERU5
VHF RADIO LINK (NEW OR REARRANGED)
EXISTING LINKS (HF/VHF/UHF)
AUDIO CABLES OR OPEN WIRE LINES                                              (         I    * '   ) ~. "-
-X -3-- E--NEW                                                                                                                                                           B.,o\
-X- X*IX   REARRANGED                                                      /
X-*--K-    EXISTING
-----       TELECOMMUNICATION ZONE BOUNDARY
gTg Kldurong     /                N                                                  <
Ga     #N&    TUBAU  NTULU
BAU                                 / 
IgSlssgP)SOALAX   1L-D                  -IH~~~~~~~~~~~~(F Lml l )
~.LUND                                 EBAK   ggsI( )            ~         N
S.                          BETONG                       ----L.
My'  <s<Us/e,(>0t>Di  >X/ U  ENGzLL                                                            0              50            100            1505
'BBR  UIL?S
MAPCH 14bl                                                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SBD  2 ?3S



