RESTRICTED
t"'1L E     CO P Y             Report No. P-790
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
THIRD RAILROAD PROJECT
April 1, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELCPMENT
INTERNAT` OLA-:'`L DEVELOP,-'IT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE RiEPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $40
million and $15 million respectively to the Republic of Korea, to be
relent to the Korean National Railroad (KNR).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The need for greatly increased investments in the transport
sector was identified in 1965/66 by an overall transport survey fin-
anced by the Bank, and has been emphasized by successive economic
missions which found that bottlenecks in rail and road transport would
hamper the continued growth of the economy. The KN\R is making consider-
able e&forts to increase its capacity by adding rolling stock and
motive power, and by improving the condition of its tracks; as for
roads, the Government is undertaking an ambitious highway building
program and IDA-financed studies are under way to establish priorities
and standards.
3.        The Bank Group has extended two previous IDA credits for the
KNR, one in 1962 and the other in 1967. Both credits, which financed
mainly rolling stock, have been fully disbursed except for a small
amount relating to consultants' services under the second credit. The
proposed loan and credit would finance locomotives, rolling stock and
other equipment needed during the remaining period of the 1967-71
development program.
4.        Negotiations were held in Washington between February 2 and
20. The Borrower was represented by General Hoon Sup Lee, Director
General of BER; Director Hong of the Finance Bureau (KNR); lMr. Bong (KNR);
Yr. Ro of the Economic Planning Board and Mr. Nam of the Korean Embassy.



5.        Tihe following  s a sum.ary statement of Bank loans and IDE
credits to Korea as of February 28, 1970:
Loan or                                             Amount (US $ million)
Credit No.  Year       Borrower           Purpose     Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
25      1962   Republic of Korea   Railway             13.9       Nil
110      1967   Republic of Korea   Railway              11.0      0.4
529      1968   KDFC                Dev.Fin.Co.     5.0            2.4
s-4      1968   Republic of Korea   Highway Studies       3.5      2.3
600/     1969   ULIA                Irrigation    45.0            45.0
151 1/   1969   Republic of Korea   Education            14.8     14.8
622      1969   KDFC                Dev.Fin.Co.    20.0           19.9
Total (less cancellations) now outstanding 70.0  43.2
Total undisbursed                           67.3  17.5     84.8
1/ Not yet effective
6.        Disbursements of the Bank Group's loans and credits in Korea
are progressing on schedule. The effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
with ULIA for the irrigation project and of the Development Credit
Agreement for the education project has been considerably delayed and
the deadline for effectiveness for both agreements had to be extended
several times. The principal cause has been delays in engaging con-
sultants for these projects. Consultants have now been selected for
the education project but a contract has not yet been concluded. This
credit is expected to be declared effective by the end of April.
Although a satisfactory contract has been signed between ULIA and the
consultants the effectiveness of the irrigation loan was further delayed
by the merger of ULIA, the borrower under the loan agreement, into the
newly formed Agriculture Development Corporation (ADC). ADC has been
appraised and I expect to recommend to the Executive Directors shortly
that we substitute the ADC for ULIA as the borrower and declare the Loan
Agreement effective. Once the start-up problems experienced with these
two projects are overcome, their physical implementation may well pro-
ceed faster than expected, making up the initial time losses.
7.        Lending operations for improved production and distribution
of seeds, livestock development and highway construction are under
preparation. I expect to recommend Bank Group assistance for these
projects in the course of the next fiscal year.
8.        IFC made an equity investment in KDFC of $0.7 million or
14% of KDFC's paid-in capital at the time when the Bank made its
first loan to KDFC. IFC has also made an equity investment of $0.3
million in, and a loan of $1.4 million to a silk company last June.
Prospects for further IFC investments in Korea are good.



PART II - DESC?CP'`bOT OF THE PQOPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
9.     Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:       Korean National Railraod (KNR)
Amount:            Bank loan $40 million
IDA credit $15 million
Purpose:           To help finance diesel
locomotives, freight cars and other items
during the last two years of KNR's 1967-71
development program.
Amortization:      Bank loan: in 25 years including a 4-year
period of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning March 1, 1974 and ending
March 1, 1995.
IDA credit: in 50 years including a 10-year
period of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments of Ω;2 of 1% from March 1, 1980 through
September 1, 1989 and of 13g from March 1,
1990 through September 1, 2019.
Interest Rate:     tank loan: 7% per annum
Commitment Charge: Bank loan: 3/4 of 1% per annum
Service Charge:    IDA credit: 3/4 of 1% per annum
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend the Bank loan and
IDA credit to the KNR on the same terms as
the Bank loan.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.    An appraisal report entitled "Third Railway Project - Korea!'
(PTR-34a) on the proposed project is attached.
11.    The very rapid expansion of production and exports in Korea
in recent years has put a severe strain on the transport system. In
an effort to meet increasing traffic demand, the Government increased
threefold the annual level of transport investments during the past
five years to a level of 284 of total domestic fixed capital formation.
Nevertheless, transportation facilities are still inadequate and hold
back the economy's development. The railroad continues to be the pre-
dominant mode of transport, carrying 77% of the ton-kms of freight
and 44% of the passenger traffic. The yearly increase in freight ton-
kms during 1964-68 was 11%, and in passenger-km., 8%. Most of KNRts
freight traffic consists of rail-oriented commodities such as coal,
ore, oil, fertilizer and cement. If KNR failed to keep up a high
rate of investments, large tonnages of these items would have to be
diverted at a high cost, mainly to coastal shipping.



12.       The project, part of which would be financed by the proposed
loan and credit, covers the last two years of KNR's 1967-71 investment
program. When the investment program was originally formulated invest-
ments totalling the equivalent of $240 million were contemplated,
including works carried over from the previous five-year program. In
1968, the program was revised to meet the requirements resulting from
the faster than expected economic growth; consequently, the program
now is for total investments of about $310 million equivalent, including
$156 million during 1970-71.
13.       The bulk of the loan and credit would be earmarked for the
purchase of specific equipment required for the project, namely freight
cars, diesel locomotives, telecommunications and track maintenance
equipment. Acquisition of these items would increase KNR's capacity to
meet traffic requirements and would help to improve KNR's efficiency by
reducing operating costs. In particular, the new freight cars and
diesel locomotives would meet present shortages and provide for expected
traffic growth in the immediate future; the telecommunication equipment
would replace obsolete and over-age installations which are now un-
reliable and insufficient to meet operational requirements; new track
maintenance equipment would help to modernize maintenance operations
and to improve the quality of maintenance work. The average economic
rate of return on the investment in the items to be financed by the
proposed loan and credit is estimated at 23%.
14.       All goods financed by the proposed loan and credit would
be procured through international competitive bidding. Since the diesel
locomotives are urgently required, specifications and bid documents have
already been approved by the Bank and KIR has issued invitations to bid.
It is expected that local manufacturers will participate in the bidding
for freight cars, and in the evaluation of their bids they would be
given a preference of 15% or the level of customs duties, whichever is
lower. It is not possible at this time to make a reasonable guess as
to how many freight car contracts are likely to be won by local manu-
facturers, as this is a new industry in Korea and the Bank has no
previous experience of the capacity and cost performance of the Korean
firms which are likely to bid.
15.       If all the freight cars to be financed under the loan and
credit were to be procured abroad, the total foreign exchange costs of
the project would be $83.7 million, of which $55 million would be
financed by the loan and credit, $18.7 million by suppliers' credits,
and $10 million out of Korea's own foreign exchange resources. At the
opposite extreme, if all the freight cars to be financed under the loan
and credit were to be procured in Korea, there would be a foreign ex-
change saving of some $14 million, obviating the need for Korea to call
on its own foreign exchange resources and resulting in the disbursement
of $4 million net from the loan and credit to meet local currency
expenditures. Even if this occurred I would consider this amount of
local expenditure financing justified in the exceptional circumstances
of Korea, where the requirements for external finance to sustain the



development program exceed the foreign exchange costs of development
projects suitable for Bank/IDA consideration. One reason for this is
that many projects in the Korean development program which have a high
foreign exchange component, particularly in the industrial sector, are
financed with funds from private and bilateral sources.
16.      IER is deficient in certain matters requiring special tech-
nical expertise, particularly those requiring economic investigation
and evaluation. Until this deficiency can be made up, KNR's manage-
ment will have to rely on the advice of consultants. The proposed
Bank Group assistance would provide $500,000 to cover the foreign
exchange cost of various consultant services. Consultants will be
required to study the maintenance of diesel locomotives and the advis-
ability of building a new workshop; contracts with these consultants
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit.
KNR would also need the help of consultants to study its telecommuni-
cations requirements.
17.       KNR's financial situation is sound; its earnings cover all
its operating expenses and make some contribution towards capital
expenditures. KNR's gross operating revenue is expected to rise from
Won 27.4 billion in 1968 to Won 47.6 billion in 1971, while operating
expenses, including depreciation, would increase from Won 21.2 billion
to Won 39.5 billion in 1971. The operating ratio, expected to be 73
in 1970, is good. Debt coverage ratios are satisfactory and are ex-
pected to remain so. KNR has undertaken to adjust its rates and fares
to reflect adequately the cost of specific services on the basis of a
study by consultants, financed by the last IDA credit, of KNR's cost
and tariff struct-re.  It should have no difficulty in fulfilling the
requirement under the proposed loan and credit that, starting in 1971,
it will maintain a rate of return of 7/0 on its investment.
18.       The second IDA credit for KNR provided funds to cover the
foreign exchange cost of a general survey of the production, trans-
port and distribution of coal. Efficient coal transportation is
hampered by the dispersion of shipping and receiving stationis in
addition to the lack of organization on the part of mineowners and
bricket manufacturers. The consultants have made many useful sug-
gestions which should result in considerable financial benefits to
KNR. However, the implementation of the consultantts recommendations
requires coordination of several different parties, both private and
governmental. The Government and KNR have now undertaken to prepare
by June 30, 1970 an acceptable program for the implementation of the
consultant1s recommendations between then and December 31, 1972.



19. 9-KNR is a semi-!7utonoélous Ozo-er-nent agency with its owr
general manaEer, budget and ac oa Z g, under the supervision of the
iNinistry of Transport. When the Association made its second credit
for KNR, the Government was considering reorganizing KNR as an auto-
nomous entity and did set up a committee to study the problems involved.
The Association encouraged a greater degree of autonomy as this would
give KtIR more authority and flexibility in operational matters. The
Governrnent has now decided to maintain the present status of KNR but
has agreed to increase KNR's autonomy in financial and personnel
policies.  In recent years, KNR has kept two sets of accounts: commer-
cial accounts providing management information and accounts set up
according to the traditional system providing for expenditure control
by the Government. The Government has now decided that as from the end
of 1970 KNR would rely exclusively on its commercial accounts for both
purposes. With the exception of a lack of specialized technical expertise
mentioned above the management of KNR is well qualified and sound; with
the increased autonomy and supported by an efficient accounting system
which would provide management with essential data, KNR should be able
to perform with considerable efficiency and competence.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Development Credit
Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank and the Associa-
tion respectively, as well as the report and recommendation of the
committees provided for by Article III Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and by Article V Section 1(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, respectively, and the text of Resolu-
tions approving the proposed loan and development credit, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
21.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements conform
generally to the pattern of Agreements for projects of this kind.
Section 5.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement provide for an additional event of
default should certain actions be taken which would substantially
affect the organizational structure, functions and operations of KNR.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
22.       A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of the
Republic of Korea" (EAP-12a, dated March 16, 1970) was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 27, 1970.
Since 1967, Korea's GNP in real terms has grown at an annual
;a-rage rate of 12.5%; a record rate of 15.5% was achieved in 1969.
However the latter was primarily because of a bumper crop following
rather poor harvests in 1967 and 1968. With the assistance of an
active family planning program, the population growrth rate was reduced
from 2.8% in 1963 to 2.2% in 1969. Per capita GNP has increased by
about 6% annually since 1963 reaching $190 equivalent in 1969.



24;       Korea has made good use of the competitive advantage afforded
by a skilled and relatively low paid labor force. Merchandise exports
increased from an average level of less than $90 million in 1962-64 to
about $670 million in 1969. Exports of goods and services grew by 37%
annually during 1967-69. However imports have grown equally fast, so
that there has been very little improvement in the ratio of exports to
imports (now about 60%). The gap in the goods and services account has
grown from $220 million in 1964 to an estimated $800 million in 1969.
25.       The major factor contributing to the rapid economic growth
has been the increase in gross domestic fixed capital formation from
12.4% of GNP in 1964 to an estimated 31.8% of GNP in 1969. With rising
incomes, savings have also increased quite substantially, but not enough
to meet this very large rise in investment. The average savings rate
was about 16% of GNP in 1969, up from 7Yo in 1965. Public savings reached
6% of GNP in 1968 and 1969 as a result of new taxes and intensified tax
collection.
26.       However, as is indicated by the growing deficit in the exter-
nal account mentioned in paragraph 25, the gap between savings and
investment has averaged about 10% of GNP during the last five years
and in 1969 was probably as much as 13%t.  Close to half of gross invest-
ment has been financed with foreign resources, increasingly in the form
of comfmercial loans.  As a result, the debt service ratio rose from less
than 3% in 1966 to an estimated 11% in 1969. Debt service throughout
the next decade is expected to absorb more than 20% of foreign exchange
earnings. This ratio, although high, does not give cause for as much
concern as it would in a less dynamic economy.
27.       The II-IF in its Standby Agreement, which expired December 31,
1969, imposed ceilings on additional short and medium-term debt. The
Government has observed these ceilings and has recently agreed to
further stringent limitations included in the IMF Standby Agreement
for the current year.
28.       The Government has taken, and is about to take, a number of
measures to achieve a more orderly and stable growth of the economy.
Primarily these measures involved a more extensive control over private
investments, particularly in construction. The growth of manufacturing
is expected to decline from a rate of 22% annually during the last five
years to about 15% during the next five years. Exports of goods and
services are also likely to grow considerably less rapidly, partly
because of growing resistance to further expansion in export markets
and partly because a scaling down of the Vietnam war may affect Korea's



- 8 -
export earnings, 17% of which, or about $1-50 mil'lon,     attre  rib -alted
to the war in 1968. The 1970 Overall Resources Budget, the Govern-
ment's annual plan, provides for only a 3% increase of gross fixed
investment as compared with actual increases of 40% in 1968 and 27% in
1969. The Central Governmentts budget has not contributed to inflation;
the budget for this year provides for an actual decrease of 3.4% in
public capital expenditures.  The Uovernment is also takirg measures to
control the expansion of liquidity so as to reduce aggregate demand,
and to further restrain imports through increased taxes on imported
consumer goods and through encouragement of efficient import substitution
in industry and agriculture. The brakes cannot be applied too quickly
to an economy that has been moving as fast as that of Korea, but given
a continuation of these policies and their gradual strengthening, the
Government can be expected to keep investment under control and reduce
the need for foreign borrowings to manageable proportions. Considering
also the good export and savings performance of the economy, Korea can
be regarded as creditworthy for the proposed Bank loan.
29.       Korea will, however, depend on foreign capital for some time
lo come even if economic growth is substantially below the levels
achieved over the past decade. In view of the country's still relatively
low level of per capita income combined with proven ability to raise
that level by productive investment and population control, foreign
resources, in substantial amounts, should continue to be made available
to it.  So that past and future borrowings will not result in the debt
service burden becoming excessive, particularly in the light of the
uncertain prosDects for further rapid export growth, Korea should also
receive some assistance on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGRE4ERMT
30.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VII - RECOaMIEDATION
31.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
ioan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
April 1, 1970



