CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 183 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Railroad Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1970


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 183 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Railroad Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1970 between the REPUB-
LIC OF KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Association has previously financed the
foreign exchange costs of two projects forming a part of
the programs for rehabilitation, modernization, expansion
and increase in capacity of the Korean railways and has
entered into development credit agreements with the Bor-
rower dated August 17, 1962 and December 18, 1967;
WHEREAS the Association has assisted the Borrower in
financing the first three years of the Borrower's railroad
development program for the years 1967 through 1971;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, such project being the last two years of
the aforesaid railroad development program;
H TBHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development (herein-
after called the Bank) to provide additional financing for
such project and, by a loan agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank agrees
to provide such financing in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association intend, to
the extent practicable, that the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures under such project before disbursements of
the proceeds of the loan provided for in such loan agree-
ment are made;


﻿4
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Con-
ditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless +he context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Government Organization Law" means the Gov-
ernment Organization Law, Law No. 1506 of December 14,
1963, as amended up to July 24, 1967, and as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(b) "KNR" means the Korean National Railroad and
includes the Office of Railroads established by the Govern-
ment Organization Law;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank,
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable thereto, all agree-
ments supplemental to such agreement and all schedules
thereto, as such agreement, supplemental agreements and
schedules may be amended from time to time;
(d) "Investment Plan" means the 1967-1971 investment
plan of the KNR as described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-


﻿ment and as the description thereof may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Borrower and the
Association;
(e) "General Survey" means the General Survey of the
Production, Transport and Distribution of Coal and Bri-
quets for the City of Seoul dated August 1968 and prepared
by Sofrerail-Sofremines, consultants for the KNR;
(f) "Economic Planning Board" means the Economic
Planning Board established under Article 19 of the Gov-
ernment Organization Law;
(g) "Director-General" means the Director-General of
the KNR appointed pursuant to Article 34(4) of the Gov-
ernment Organization Law; and
(h) "Won" and the letter W mean the currency of the
Republic of Korea.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation
shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provi-
sions of such Schedule or by further agreement among the
Borrower, the Association and the Bank.


﻿6
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project
and to be financed under this Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made:
(i) under Categories I, III, IV and V of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on
account of payments in the currency of the Bor-
rower, or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, the territories of the Borrower; or
(ii) on account of payments for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on,
or in connection with the importation or supply
of, goods or services included in Categories II and
V of said allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and


﻿7
September 1 commencing March 1, 1980 and ending Sep-
tember 1, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on SeptemOer 1, 1989, to be one-half of one
per cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1/ /c) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for fProcureinent under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval
of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the KNR to
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engi-


﻿8
neering and railroad practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall make available to the
KNR the proceeds of the Credit on the following terms:
(i) interest at seven per cent (7%) per annum on the
principal amount outstanding from time to time;
and
(ii) amortization in twenty-five years, including four
years of grace.
SECTIoN 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the KNR
to furnish to the Association upon request, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract docu-
ments and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the KNR to maintain
records adequate to identify the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the
Project, to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the KNR; shall enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
and any relevant records and documents, and all facilities,
sites, works, properties and equipment of the KNR; and
shall furnish or cause the KNR to furnish to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Project, the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the KNR.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take out and main-
tain or cause the KNR to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory


﻿9
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amount as shall be consistent with sound practice.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the KNR to insure or
cause to be insured with responsible insurers all imported
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery to the place of use or
installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the KNR to be
managed and operated at all times in accordance with
sound business, financial and railroad practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management and
-2hall cause the KNR to operate, maintain, renew and repair
its equipment and property, including the equipment and
property included in the Project, in accordance with sound
engineering and railroad practices.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the KNR:
(i) not later than January 1, 1971 to: (A) maintain its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expense and related statements and
records) solely in accordance with the commercial account-
ing system; and (B) cease to maintain said accounts and
financial statements in accordance with procedures hitherto
followed; and
(ii) to prepare its budget for fiscal years 1971 and there-
after in accordance with the commercial accounting system,
and to install and maintain on a continuing basis, not later
than December 31, 1973, a performance budgeting system
consistent with the recommendations contained in the Final
Report on Performance Budgeting Project (dated October
30, 1965, prepared by Booz, Allen and Hamilton Interna-
tional Inc., Consultants) except as the Association shall
otherwise agree.


﻿10
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the KNR to:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association, as soon as available but, in any case,
not later than five months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of its financial statements for such year, as
so audited, and a report of such audit by the said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Association shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall, commencing 1970,
cause the KNR to make adequate allocation of funds for
purposes of the audit of its accounts in its annual operating
budget and shall make available, whenever necessary, for-
eign exchange required for the said purposes.
SECTION 4.09. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit,
the maintenance of the service thereof and the organiza-
tion, administration, operations and financial condition of
the KNR and its development program. The Borrower


﻿11
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tpnance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTIoN 4.10. The Borrower shall cause the KNR to
employ competent and experienced consultants, satisfactory
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association to:
(i) make a study of and recommend measures necessary
for: (A) the improvement of the maintenance of diesel
locomotives and railcars; and (B) the current as well as
anticipated future maintenance services and manufacturing
operations (other than the manufacture of motive power)
of existing workshops;
(ii) advise the KNR on and to plan for the moderniza-
tion and expansion of its telecommunication system; and
(iii) assist the KNR in the evaluation of bids for diesel
locomotives and track maintenance equipment and in the
making of recommendations for the award of contracts in
respect thereof.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall ensure:
(i) that the KNR shall employ competent and experi-
enced consultants, satisfactory to the Association, upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association to study and make recommendations on the
desirability of the construction of a workshop at Dae Jeon;
and
(ii) that the KNR shall not engage in the construction
of a workshop at Dae Jeon or at any other place prior to
the completion of the study of said consultants.


﻿12
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall ensure that the KNR
shall not engage in the development, enlargement or mod-
ernization of marshalling yards or construct new marshal-
ling yards prior to the completion by consultants of the
study currently in progress.
SECTION 4.13. The Borrower shall ensure that the KNR:
(i) promptly upon the completion of each study referred
to in Sections 4.11 and 4.12 of this Agreement gives the
Borrower and the Association an opportunity to comment
thereon; and (ii) takes all steps necessary to implement
such recommendations made by said consultants as shall
have been agreed to by the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.14. The Borrower confirms:
(i) that it generally agrees with all the recommendations
contained in the General Survey (1968);
(ii) that it intends to take all measures necessary for
the implementation of said recommendations;
(iii) that it shall prepare or cause to be prepared not
later than June 30, 1970, a program satisfactory to the
Association, setting forth the details for such implementa-
tion;
(iv) that it shall entrust the Economic Planning Board
with the responsibility to initiate, take and perform all
actions, measures and functions necessary to achieve coordi-
nation in the implementation and execution of the aforesaid
program; and
(v) that it shall execute and implement the aforesaid
recommendations in accordance with aforesaid program,
not later than December 31, 1972, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree.
SECTION 4.15. The Borrower shall cause the KNR to
make such revisions of tariffs as shall be necessary to bring
rates and fares into close relationship to the costs of the


﻿13
services provided, taking into account: (i) the recommenda-
tions of the consultants currently studying KNR's cos,s
and tariff structure; (ii) the information obtained from
traffic cost analyses; and (iii) conditions of competition
from other modes of transport. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, such tariff revisions shall come into
effect not later than twelve months from the date of re-
ceipt by the Borrower of the recommendations of the said
consultants.
SECTIOX 4.16. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall cause the KNR to take
from time to time, all necessary measures, (including but
not limited to adjustments of the tariff structure and rates
of the KNR), satisfactory to the Association as shall be
required to enable the KNR, out of internally generated
resources:
(i) to meet interest on and amortization of debt;
(ii) to maintain adequate working capital;
(iii) to establish and maintain reserves adequate to meet
contingencies; and
(iv) to finance a reasonable proportion of its capital
expenditures including replacement of assets.
(b) For the purposes of meeting the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) above the Borrower shall cause the
KNR to take all necessary steps to earn commencing fiscal
year 1971, an annual rate of return of 7 % on its net fixed
assets in operation, or such higher rate of return as may
be necessary to meet such requirements.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net operating income for the year in
question to the average of the value of the net
fixed assets of the KNR in operation at the begin-
ning and at the end of each year;


﻿14
(ii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets less
the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valut1
from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation ac-
ceptable to the Association;
(iii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the
KNR services; and
(B) the operating and administrative expenses,
taxes (if any), adequate maintenance and de-
preciation but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
SECTION 4.17. The Borrower shall cause the KNR to
remove all restrictions relating to freight traffic over short
distances promptly after adjustments in tariffs and rates
of the KNR consistent with the provisions of Section 4.15
of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.18. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(i) until the Project has been completed, the Borrower
shall cause the KNR not to undertake or execute, for its
own account or for the account of any third party or par-
ties, any project or development program other than that
provided for in the Investment Plan or the Project; and
(ii) the Borrower shall not cause or permit the KNR to
engage in the manufacture of motive power.
SECTION 4.19. Upon completion of the study by consult-
ants of transport coordination and highway organization
currently in progress, the Borrower shall promptly consult
with the Association with a view to agreeing, not later
than December 31, 1970, on: (i) measures necessary to
achieve adequate coordination in the field of transportation,


﻿15
particularly with respect to the establishment of a body
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association for over-
all planning of the transport sector; and (ii) the timing
for the implementation of said measures.
SECTION 4.20. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause the KNR to prepare not
later than June 30, 1970, a program   satisfactory to the
Association for the training of KNR's staff.
SECTION 4.21. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
empower, not later than June 1, 1970, the Director-General
to: (i) reallocate and transfer funds among subparagraphs
of KNR's annual operating budget so as to increase or
decrease funds allocated for items other than the items
relating to salaries and public charges; (ii) reallocate and
transfer funds from the contingencies provision to any
other item of KNR's operating budget; and (iii) allocate
and transfer funds from KNR's excess revenues to any
item in KNR's operating budget:
Provided that prior to making such reallocation or trans-
fer: (i) the Director-General shall have made a request
in writing to the Minister of the Economic Planning Board
for such reallocation and transfer; and (ii) the Minister
of the Economic Planning Board shall not have commu-
nicated in writing his objections to the Director-General
to such request within thirty days from the date of receipt
of such request.
SECTION 4.22. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.23. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower


﻿16
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such decla-
ration such principal, together with such charges, shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in this
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified:
Any amendment to the Government Organization
Law shall occur or any other action shall be taken
so as to substantially affect the organization, functions
and operations of the KNR without the Association
having, in advance thereof, notified the Borrower of its
concurrence therewith, and such event shall continue
for a period of sixty days.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:


﻿17
(a) that the consultants provided for under Sections
4.10(i) and 4.11 of this Agreement shall have been employed
by the KNR; and
(b) that all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement other than the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 6.02. The date of September 11, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01 through 4.04(a), 4.05 through 4.08, 4.16,
4.18 (ii) and 4.21 of this Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate on the date on which this Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five
years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and fhe Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister, Economic Planning Board,
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea


﻿18
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D,C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in Seoul,
Republic of Korea, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Kim, HAK-YUL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ ROBERT S. McNAMARA
President


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
Maximum Amounts
Dollar Equivalent
Category                             Expressed in
I. 50 Diesel locomotives and
spare parts                         19,500,000
II. 2,740 Freight Cars                   28,400,000
III. Track maintenance Equipment           2,400,000
IV. Telecommunications Equipment           2,600,000
V. Consulting services and
training program                      500,000
VI. Unallocated                            1,600,000
TOTAL          55,000,000
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of this Agree-
ment, and shall be applied to expenditures under any of
the Categories I through V, until the total of such with-
drawals, and of commitments, if any, in respect of such ex-
penditures, shall have reached the equivalent of $15,000,000.
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan shall be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan
Agreement, and shall be applied to expenditures under any
of the Categories I through V incurred, after the amount
of the Credit shall have been exhausted, except that with-
drawals from the Loan Account may be made prior to such
exhaustion in respect of commitment referred to in Section
2.04(c) of the Loan Agreement.


﻿20
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
3. If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the
Categories I through V shall decrease, the amount then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category will
be reallocated to Category VI by the Association and t.ae
Bank, or by the Bank, as the case may be.
4. If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the
Categories I through V shall increase, an amount equal to
the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan will be allocated
at the request of the Borrower, by the Association and the
Bank, or by the Bank, as the case may be, to such Category
from Category VI, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association and
the Bank, or by the Bank, as the case may be, in respect of
the cost of expenditures under any of the other Categories.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Investment Plan and Project
A. The Investment Plan
The investment Plan, estimated to require the expendi-
tures of about Won 90 billion, including contingencies,
consists of :
1. Construction of New Lines
Construction of about 80 lm of line between Jin Ju and
Sun Cheon, to improve access to the main port of Pu San
and about 90 km in short lines and spurs to serve coal mines
and industrial areas.
2. Increase in Station and Line Capacity
Commencement of electrification of about 350 km of lines
connecting Seoul to the northeastern part of Korea; ex-
pansion of freight handling facilities and improved operat-
ing facilities in the Seoul area; double tracking of the
Seoul-Inchon line (31 km) and about 80 km of the Dae
Jeon-Iri line and improvements to marshalling yards.
3. Way and structural Renewals and Improvements
Relaying of about 1000 km of track with 50 kg/m rail;
replacement of wooden ties by concrete ties; strengthening
of bridges and acquisition of mechanical track maintenance
equipment.
4. Motive Power and Rolling Stock
Importation of about 160 diesel locomotives; purchase
of about 650 passenger coaches, 7200 freight cars, five
wrecking cranes and 1700 containers.
5. Rolling Stock Maintenance and
Construction Equipment
Importation of machinery and tools and modernization
of sheds and workshops.


﻿22
6. Miscellaneous
Installation of a modern telecommunications system;
improvement of electrical supply and office equipment and
employment of consultants and training of railway per-
sonnel.
B. The Project
The Project consists of the last two years, 1970-1971, of
the Investment Plan and is estimated to roquire the ex-
penditure of about Won 45 billion, including contingencies.
The main components of the Project are:
(a) Construction of about 36 km of new lines.
(b) Commencement of ground facilities for electrification
of about 350 km of line; signalling and track extensions
including installation of C.T.C. in the Seoul area and im-
provements to marshalling yards and to freight handling
facilities.
(c) Track renewals and replacement of 37 kg/m rail
with 50 kg/m rail over about 130 km of line, strengthening
of bridges and the procurement of mechanized track main-
tenance equipment.
(d) Importation of 50 diesel locomotives and spares and
the purchase of about 290 passenger cars, 3750 freight cars
and 1700 containers.
(e) Replacement of worn-out telecommunications equip-
ment with modern equipment and improvements of electric
power supplies and of office equipment.
(f) Engagement of consultant services.
(g) Training of KNR's personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1971.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to contracts of U.S. $100,000 equivalent or
more, the following procedures shall apply:
(a) One copy of the invitation to bid and the bid adver-
tisements to be published, the conditions of contract,
the specifications, and all other tender documents
together with a complete description of the advertis-
ing procedure to be used (including list of publica-
tions in which the advertisement will appear and the
time to be allowed for bid preparation) will be sub-
mitted to the Association and the Bank for review
and approval prior to the issuance of invitations
to bid.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analyses of the bids, and the recommendation for
awards, together with the reasons for such recom-
mendations, will be submitted to the Association and
the Bank for review and approval of the proposed
award prior to making an award of contract or
issuing a letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract or letter of intent is to differ
materially from the terms and conditions contained
in the respective documents approved by the Asso-
ciation and the Bank under paragraphs (a) and (b)
above, the text of the proposed changes will be sub-
mitted to the Association and the Bank for review
and approval prior to the execution of such contract.
(d) One conformed copy of any letter of intent issued
and of any contract executed under paragraphs (a)
and (b) above will be sent to the Association and
the Bank promptly upon its issuance or execution
and prior to the submission to the Association and
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit and the Loan Account in
respect of such contract.


﻿24
2. With respect to contracts of less than $100,000 equivalent
copies of the invitation to bids, the bid analysis and evalua-
tion, the contract or order, and any other documents the
Association and the Bank may request will be sent to the
Association and the. Bank promptly after the execution of
the respective contract and prior to the submission to the
Association and the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit and the Loan Account in
respect of such contract.
3. For the purpose of awarding contracts for the purchase
of goods included in Category II of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to in
Schedule 1 of this Agreement, and pursuant to paragraph
2.8 of the Guidelines for Procurement referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Association
agree that where bids are submitted by any private manu-
facturer established in the territories of the Borrower of
any such goods manufactured or processed in the territories
of the Borrower to a substantial extent as determined by
the Association (hereinafter called Local Bid), the follow-
ing rules will be observed for the purpose of comparing
any Local Bid to any bid other than a Local Bid (herein-
after called Foreign Bid) :
(i) all custom duties and similar taxes on the importa-
tion of such goods into the territories of the Bor-
rower will first be deducted from the total of any
Foreign Bid;
(ii) the portion of any ruch Foreign Bid resulting from
subparagraph (i) above which represents the c.i.f.
price of such goods will then be increased by 15o
thereof or by the amount of such custom duties
and similar taxes as generally apply to such goods
if imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt purchasers, whichever is lower:


﻿25
(iii) the figure resulting from subparagraph (ii) above
will be deemed to be the price of any such Foreign
Bid for comparison purposes;
(iv) the price of any Local Bid will be equal to the
ex-factory price of the goods offered;
(v) if the price of the goods offered under the lowest
evaluated Local Bid is equal to or lower than the
price of the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid resulting
from subparagraph (iii) above, then the lowest
evaluated Local Bid may be considered the lowest
evaluated bid for the purposes of paragraph 3.9 of
said Guidelines; and
(vi) in cases where a Local Bid is considered, pursuant
to subparagraph (v) above, to be the lowest evalu-
ated bid, the bid analysis submitted to the Associa-
tion and the Bank will state the amount of the
c-istom duties and similar taxes referred to under
subparagraph (ii) above.


