Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
4J-.
Repot No. 7872-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
October 27, 1989
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Tbfs docuent has a resticted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tlkdr offdlcid duin. Ils cootenXt may not otberwse be disclosed without Worhl Bank uutborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
^urrency Unit         8         Brazilian New Cruzado (NCz$)
US$1.00                -        NCz$ 1.00 1/
US$1.00                .        NCzS 4.46 21
NCz$ 1.00              *        US$.224 21
NCz$ 1 Million         -        US$224,000 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
State of Santa Catarina    -         January 1 to December 31
Project                     -        January 1 to December 31
1/ Exchange rate at the time of appraisal (April 1989).
21 Exchange rate as of October 19, 1989.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ABEPA-SC            Associacao Brasileira de Empresas de Planejamento
Agropecuario - Santa Catarina
(Brazilian Association of Agricultural Planning
Enterprises, Santa Catarina Branch)
ACARESC            Associacao de Credito e Assistencia Rural de Santa
Catarina
(Santa Catarina State Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Association)
AU                  Secretaria Executivo do Projeto
(Project Administrative Unit)
BESC                Banco do Estado de Santa Catarina S.A.
(Santa Catarina State Bank)
BTN                Bonus do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Bond)
CEMH               Comissao Estadual de Microbacias Hidrograficas
(Microcatchment State Commission)
CEPA-SC            Instituto de Pianejamento e Economia Agricola de Santa
Catarina
(State Institute of Planning and Agro-Economics)
CIDASC             Companhia Integrada de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Santa
Catar ki.i
(State Agricultural Development Company)
ClMM               Comissao Municipal de Microbacias Hidrograficas
(Microcatchment Municipal Commission)
COTERRA            Coordenadoria de Terras e Reforms Agraria
(Land and Agrarian Reform Department)
DER-SC             Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Santa
Catarina
(Santa Catarina State Road Construction and Maintenance
Agency)
EMATER-SC          Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao
Rural de Santa Catarina
(Santa Catarina State Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Company)
EMPASC             Empresa Catarinense de Pesquisa Agropecuaria S.A.
(Agricultural Research Agency of Santa Catarina)
FATMA              Fundacao de Amparo a Techologia e Meio Ambiente
(Agency for the Protection of Technology and
Environment)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. Its cortents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LARS-SC            Laboratorio Associado de Sensoriamento Remoto de Santa
Catarina
(Remote Sensing Joint Laboratory of Santa Catarina)
OCESC              Organizacao das Cooperativas do Estado de Santa Catarina
(State of Santa Catarina Organization of Cooperatives)
SMAI               Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura de Abastecimento e
da Irrigacao
(State Secretariat of Agriculture, Supply and
Irrigation)
SEDUMA..           Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Urbano e do Meio
Ambiente          %
(State Secretariat for Urban Development and
Eavironment)
SET-SC             Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes e Obras Publicas
(State Secretariat of Transport and Public Warks)
SINDICARNE         Sindicato das Industrias da Carne de Santa Catarina
(Beef Industries Union of Santa Catarina)
SINDIFUMO          Sindicato das Industrias do Fumo
(Tobacco Industries Union)
UFSC               Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina
(Federal University of Santa Catarina)



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................                 1
II.     THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .................................                4
Agriculture in the Economy ..............................                4
Agricultural Development Policy            .         .                   4
Experience with Past Bank Lending .                   .                  5
The State of Santa Catarina                    ..5
III.    THE PROJECT .......... ...................................                8
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin          .      .              8
Project Area ..                                                          8
Project Objectives and Beneficiaries                .        .9
Complementary Activities to the Project .                .               9
Project Description             ..                                       9
-Adaptive Research    ..10
-Land Use Mapping, Planning and Monitoring  . .10
-Rural Extension   ..10
-Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil
Conservation and Pollution Control .11
-Erosion Control Works Along Rural Roads .13
-Forestry Development and Natural Resource
Protection .13
-Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation                14
-Training .15
Project Organization and Implementation.                               16
-State Level   .                      .16
-Regional and Municipal Level   .               .16
-Annual Planning and Budgeting   .              .16
-Operating Agreements ........... ............                    16
-Accounts and Auditing    .                 .16
Project Cost   ..17
Financing Plan ....             ..18
Procurement   ..18
Disbursements and Special Accounts   .                .19
The project is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited Santa Catarina from April 2 to April 21, 1989. The mission was
comprised of Messrs. J. P. Delsalle (Mission Leader) and M. Fairless
(Agricultural Economist, Consultant).



Page No.
Project Benefits and Justification     ......................    20
-Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes   ............    20
-Environmental Impact ...................  .. .      20
-Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery .20
-Economic Analysis ...........                       21.
Project Risks..........                                   21
IV.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION     21
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DETAILED DESCRIPTION ............... ............. 24-36
Table 1.1 Evolution of State GDP in Relation to National
GDP (1975-1988) ....................................    37
Table 1.2 Evolution of Land Tenure (1970-1985) ............. .    38
Table 1.3 Comparative Evolution of Crop Yields, Level of
Mechanization, Use of Modern Inputs,
and Migration of Rural Population (1975-1985)  .....   39
Table 1.4 Selected Microcatcbment Distribution per
River Basin or Sub-Basin and Criteria for Selection    41
Table 1.5 Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities .........  42
Table 1.6 Summary Account by Project Component ....  ..........   43
Table 1.7 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....  ...........   44
Table 1.8 Allocation of Loan Proceeds .....  ..................    45
Table 1.9 Financing Plan     .....................................    46
Table 1.10 Project Physical Targets and Implementation
Schedule  ................   *  .........................  47
ANNEX 2: PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING .... ....... 51-53
Table 2.1 List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies ......   54
Chart 2.1 Project Coordination and Management Chart ....5.....    S
Chart 2.2 Project Administrative Unit (AU)
Organizational Chart .............. ......... .......    56
ANNEX 3: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS  ........................ 57-59
Table 3.1 Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Tested in Financial Analysis ..... .................    60
Table 3.2 Estimated Benefited A-eas and Yields and Production
of Major Crops Without Project and at
Full Development ........................ .......    61
Table 3.3 Project Econoaic Analysis          ..                62
Table 3.4 Principal Prices Used for Financial and
Economic  Analysis  ...... ...........................  63
Table 3.5 Project Sensitivity Analysis .................. ...  65
ANNEX 4: DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ....  ............    66
MAPS:  IBRD 21644 -  Project Area - Adaptive Research, Land Use
Monitoring, Rural Extension and Project
Administration Component
IBRD 21645 -  Project Area - Forestry Development and Natural
Resource Protection Component



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:             State of Santa Catarina.
Guarantor:            Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing Agency:    State Secretariat of Agriculture, Supply and
Irrigation (SAAI).
Amount:               US$33.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:        Some 81,000 farmers, most of them small-scale farmers,
residing in some 520 selected microcatchments,
representing about 25Z of the farmland of the State of
Santa Catarina, would directly benefit from the
proposed project. A larger number of rural and urban
families would also benefit from reduced siltirg of
dams, less flooding and pollution of water sources, as
well as from improved conservation of the state's
natural resources.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The proposed project would be the second in a series
of pioneer state projects aimed at supporting
innovative technical approaches for economically
viable investment in soil conservation. The project
objectives are to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes by promoting the adoption of sustainable
forms of land management and soil and water
conservation by Santa Catarina's farmers. Use of
these techniques would: (a) improve farm profitability
through cost-effective and sustainable productivity
gains, and better land use; and (b) halt soil loss,
the silting of river beds and dams, floods, the
destruction of rural roads, pollution of water sources
and depletion of natural resources.  The project would
also assist the Secretariat of Agriculture, Supply
and Irrigation in improving its efficiency in the
implementation of soil conservation program
activities. In order to meet its objectives, the
project would support: adaptive agricultural research;
land use mapping, planning and monitoring; rural
extension; an incentive program for land management,
soil conservation and pollution control carried out by
farmers and farmer groups; erosion control works along
rural roads; forestry development and natural resource
protection; project administration, monitoring and
evaluation; and training.



Project Benefits:    Economic benefits under the proposed project are
expected from the increase in agricultural production
through sustainable productivity gains and land use
improvements. The internal rate of return calculated
for the directly productive components with readily
quantifiable economic benefits is estimated at 15Z.
Expanded .griculture and forest activities would
create employment equivalent to some 3,900 man-years
annually. Other benefits would include reduced road
maintenance costs and water source pollution, lover
risk of flooding, reduced pressure on remaining native
forests to supply fuelwood, and improved protection of
local ecosystems.
Proiect Risks:        The project's principal risk is that the interest
among the farming community in controlling soil
erosion could fa*l to expand as a result of: (a)
farmers' reluctance to use commercial investment
credit for conservation activities in the current
uncertain economic environment; (b) insufficient
inter-institutional cooperation; and (c) shortfalls in
counterpart funding. The project has been designed to
minimize these risks. The establishment of the soil
conservation fund to assist microcatchment farmer
associations in financing soil conservation and
pollution control works, the availability of green
manure crop seeds and of planting material for
commercial forestry development, and the overall
participatory philosophy of the project should
encourage farmers to invest in soil conservation
activities. The integration of most project executing
egencies under the authority of the Secretariat of
Agriculture, Supply and Irrigation, the setting up of
a strong monitoring and evaluation system, and
intensive staff training should ensure efficient
project coordination. Finally, the support the
project enjoys among state authorities should help
secure adequate counterpart funding.



ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Estimated Project Costs
-Adaptive Research                              4.0         .2        4.2
-Land Use Mapping, Planning and Monitoring   2.4             .3       2.7
-Rural Extension                               13.7          .4      14.1
-Incentive Program for Land
Management, Soil Conse:vation and
Pollution Control                             6.0        1.0        7.0
-Erosion Control Works Along Rural Roads    12.0           2.9       14.9
-Forestry Development and
Natural Resource Protection                   6.0        0.7        6.7
-Project Administration, Monitoring
and Evaluation                                3.1        0.1        3.2
-Training                                       2.1         .7        2.8
Total Baseline Costs                            49.3        6.3       55.6
-Physical Contingencies                          2.1          .6       2.7
-Price Contingencies                            11.9        1.4       13.3
Total Project Costs                             63.3        8.3       71.6 1/
Financing Plan
-Santa Catarina State Government                38.6        --        38.6 I/
-IBRD                                           24.7        8.3       33.0
Total                                       63.3        8.3       71.6
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY:            1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
(in US$ million)
Annual               2.2 2/  4.9    5.4    5.3    4.5    4.1    3.7    2.5          .4
Cumulative           2.2      7.1   12.5   17.8   22.3   26.4   30.1   32.6   33.0
Rate of Return: 15Z
Maps:  IBRD  Nos. 21644 and 21645
1/ Including US$6.3 million of local taxes.
21 Including initial deposit of US$2.15 million into the Special Accounts (CESA
and FESA).



- 4-
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
2.01     Throughout the postwar period, until the 19809, the economy grew
at a high average annual rate of 7.12. The agricultural sector also
performed well, achieving an average annual growth rate of about 4.42 over
the same period. However, the outputs of both the industrial and service
sectors increased at much faster rates--8.52 and 7.02, respectively. As a
result, agriculture's share in GDP declined from about 251 in 1950 to 10?
in 1980.
2.02     Agricultural production growth prior to 1980 was led by the growth
of non-traditional exports (mainly soybeans and citrus).  Production
increases came a'most entirely from new land expansion as opposed to
increases in yields.  Production was particularly dynamic in the expanding
frontier states of the Center-West (Gpias and Mato Grosso do Sul) and parts
of Minas Gerais.
2.03     In the early 1980s, the economy slowed down, reflecting declines
in industrial production and stagnation in agriculture. In addition, the
expansion of the agricultural frontier came to a virtual halt. with the
esception of areas in the North.  In the last couple of years, agricultural
growth has resumed. However, the sources of growth appear to be changing.
With the recent introduction of new varieties, made possible by
technological advances in agricultural research, yields on traditional
export crops (cotton, tobacco and coffee) and many food crops (rice, maize
and wheat) have increased significantly. During the 1980s, very little
change occurred in the overall structure of output. By 1987, agriculture
still accounted for about 10t of GDP. Its share in the labor force and
total exports were 25? and 432, respectively.
Agricultural Development Policy
2.04     Government policies have had a major impact on the performance of
the agricultural sector. Probably the most important action in this regard
was Brazil's decision in the postwar era to embark on an import-
substitution, industrialization strategy. This strategy has been pursued
through a variety of measures, including an overvalued currency,
restrictive trade policies, and from time to time, outright bans and quotas
on agricultural exports   The effect has been to implicitly tax
agriculture. Partially to compensate for this, subsidized rural credit -4as
introduced, but this only created further distortions and benefitted mainly
the large producers. Recently the Government has moved to change some of
these policies. The Bank has supported these reforms uader the Credit and
Marketing Reform Project (Loan 2727-BR). With respect to rural credit, the
Government is now moving in the direction of reducing the availability of
official (subsidized) credit and relying on private finance at market
interest rates. A recently signed Bank-supported agricultural credit
operation, the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR), is aimed at
assisting the Government to achieve this objective.
2.05     While the Government policy agenda during the 1980s has been
domiitated by macroeconomic stabilization concerns, farmers, faced with the
problem of increasing production costs and falling commodity prices, have
begun to seek more cost-effective technologies and to intensify the use of
existing farm land and rural infrastructure. This is already evident in
the country's major agricultural areac in the South and Southeast. There



is growing interest in irrigation, soil conservation, environmental
protection, livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage
and more widespread application of the results of egricultural research.
Recent evidence also indicates th&t the supply of unclaimed agricultural
land with economic poter.-ial is rapidly diminishing. This fact, combined
with the Government's recent initiatives to withdraw part of the varioue
fiscal incentives that have, to an important extent, fueled this expansion,
suggest that the growth of the land frontier may be coming to a close.
Agricultural growth in the futute is expected to come increasingly from
mo:e land-intensive production methods.
E%perience With east Bank Lending
2.06     As of March 31, 1989, the Bank has made 54 loans, totali g
US$4,560.8 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. These loans includet one agricultural credit and
export loan for US$303 million; one agricultural credit loan for US$300
million; one credit and marketing reform loan for US$500 million; two
supplemental loans for US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program;
four loans for US$785.8 million for agro-industries; three for US$111.
million for livestock, including a disease control project of
US$51 million; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for
US$100 million for agricultural research; two loans for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
one for US$48.5 million for forestry development; one for US$195 million
for the irrigation subsector; and 34, totaling US$1,813.3 million, for
various settlement, irrigation, and rural development projects in the
Northeast, in Minas Gerais, and in the North and Northwest and a first land
management and soil conservation project in the southern State of Parana.
The last project was approved in January 1989, and the loan was declared
effective in June 1989. Progress in the initial months has been
satisfactory. The proposed project would be the second free-standing land
management and soil conservation project in Brazil.
The State of Santa Catarina
2.07     Location and Natural Features.  Santa Catarina is the smallest of
Brazil's three southern states with a total area of 95,985 km2 (only 1.12
of the country's total area), but it contributes nearly 42 to national GDP.
Located between the State of Parana and the State of Rio Grande do Sul,
between latitudes 260 and 290 South, Santa Catarina has a subtropical
climate with cool and dry winters. Most of the annual rainfall, which
ranges from 1200 mm to 2500 mm, depending on location, falls in the warm
summers, often as intense storms. Soils are variable. but tend to be
poorly structured, acidic and low in available nutrients even in the west
o the state where agriculture is more important. Much of the terrain is
heavily undulating. With the closing of the agricultural frontier, the
original forest cover, which represented 302 of the state's farmland in the
1950s, has shrunk to less than one half its 1950s size and cultivation is
still expanding onto even more marginal steep land. As a result, excessive
run-off and soil erosion are rapidly increasing problems in the cropped
area.
2.08     Economic and Social Conditions.  Intensive settlement of Santa
Catarina began in the mid-19th century and the agricultural frontier
effectively closed in the 1960s. Currently 342 of the state population
(1.4 million people) of about 4.2 million lives in rural areas compared
with almost 602 twenty years ago. Despite a steady industrial growth, the



-6-
state's agricultural sector remains important; it contributes nearly 7? to
national agricultural output (Annex 1, Table 1.1), 17? to state's GDP, and
generates about 312 of the state's employment.
2.09     Land Tenure.    - and Production.  Santa Catarina's land ownership
is among the least ,..Xwntrated in Brazil (Annex 1, Table 1.2). Farms under
50 ha (90? of all farms) occupy 41? of total farmland, and farms over 1,000
ha (less than orte percent of all farms) cover 17? of total farmland. In
1985 about two-thirds of the 235,00v rural properties were owner-operated.
One percent of farmland was planted to permanent crops, 25Z to annual
crops, almost 337. was under improved or natural pasture, and 22? was under
natural or planted forest; the balance represented fallow or uncultivable
land. Livestock products (poultry, piga, and to a smaller extent, beef and
milk) and fish make up about half the gross value of the state's
agricultural output. In addition to being the major producer of boiler
chickens and in some years of pigs, the state is the major producer of
tobacco (41? of national output) and the second largest producer of garlic
and onion (31? and 23? of national output, respectively). It also
contributes a substantial share of the national production of maize (92),
edible beans (8?), potatoes (71), grape and stone fruits, and honey. Three
fairly distinct production systems co-exist based on: manual methods;
animal traction often combined with the use of a small two-wheel tractor,
the most widespread system; and full mechanization. 'arms large and level
enough to mechanize are mostly confined to the northwest corner of the
state. Farmers are, in general, enterprising and progressive, although
more limited in individual savings and the size of their holdings than
those in the adjacent State of Parana. With cultivation expanding onto
marginal steep land, highly erosive rainfalls have triggered alarming
increases in gullying, silting of river beds and flooding. Problems have
been compounded by inarnropriate alignment of rural roads in the heavily
undulating t-rrain. Yields of many annual crops are either static or
declining and production costs are rising (Annex 1, Table 1.3).
2.10     Agricultural Services.  During the past eight years, agricultural
services have been allocated only four to five percent of the state budget.
In addition, most of the funds are absorbed by everating costs, and there
is an acute shortage of investment capital. Th;~ State Secretariat of
Agriculture, Supply and Irrigation (SAMI) is responsible for sectoral
planning and government support services. Key state institutions
responsible to SAAI include: the Agricultural Research Agency of Santa
Catarina (EMPASC) which has 133 graduate researchers and 520 technicians
and support staff distributed among 8 experimental stations; the Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-SC/ACARESC) which has about
455 agriculturists, 455 field technicians, and about 490 administrative
staff distributed among headquarters, and 23 regional and 204 local
offices; the State Agricultural Development Company (CIDASC) which is
responsible, through a network of 14 regional and 136 local offices, for
government input and basic good supply, heavy machinery services, and for
production monitoring and quality control of seeds, planting material
(including forestry) and input use; and the State Institute of Planning and
Agro-Economics (CEPA-SC) which, with a staff of about 65, is responsible
for agricultural planning and policy, data base collection and evaluation.
The State Foundation fer the Protection of Technology and Environment
(FATHA) is responsible for the enforcement of the existing state lawl on
naturil resource protection through a network of eight regional offices and
11 This law No. 5.793 of October 15, 1980 regulated by Decree No. 14.250
of June 5, 1981 published on June 9, 1981, focuses mainly on mining and
industrial pollution.



eleven control posts, b*st is actually very limited in its activities due to
a lack of resources. Parm credit is channelled mainly through the Bank of
Brazil (BB), the 3tate Bank (BESC), and various private banks. As would be
ex.ected in a state with well-developed agriculture, agro-industry
associations and producer cooperatives are very active. Most input supply
and marketing are through these channels, and CIDASC aims to provide only a
back-up capability for input supply and heavy machinery services. Agro-
industries are providing extension services, through an extension staff of
486, for the production of specific crops or products (such as SINDIFUMO
for tobacco and SINDICARNE for beef, pork and chicken). The 35 producer
cooperatives, grouping about 80,000 members, have also over 300
extensionists. Finally, the Association of Agricultural Planning
Enterprises (ABEPA-SC) consists of 130 independent agricultural
consultants, mostly high-level technicians.
2.11     State's Past Experience in Land Management and Soil Conservation.
Santa Catarina took its first steps tpward promoting soil conservation in
the early 1960s and has had a series of small programs ever since.
Farmers' awareness of the need for improved land management and soil
conservation has been heightened through these programs; this awareness was
strongly reinforced by the 1983/1984 floods. However, most of the previous
soil conservation initiatives have had little lasting impact for various
reasons: some early programs gave excessive emphasis to input use to
maintain chemical fertility, rather than to better overall land management;
others stressed traditional mechanical measures to control runoff, which
farmers found costly and which gave them little immediate benefit; mc't
programs focussed on scattered areas; resources were usually scarce and
funding intermittent; and there was a high turnover of government staff.
2.12     Modern approaches to conservation have been promoted in Santa
Catarina beginning in 1987 with a small pilot program. These aim to
improve the overall management of all land within a microcatchment
(microbacia). They focus in the first instance on increased vegetative
cover -- mainly through improved planting spacings and crop rotation,
varietal changes, green manuring, liming (which gives a marked stimulus to
crop growth on many Santa Catarina soils) and mulching with crop residues
-- to protect soil from suriace sealing by rainsplash; secondly, on
alternative cultivation techniques (such as reduced tillage associated with
increased deep ripping) and organic manuring to improve water infiltration
and internal drainage; thirdly, on contour planting, strip cropping, and
low-cost vegetative contour barriers; and only as a final resort, on
mechanical barriers (stone walls, bunding and terracing) and improved
disposal of drainage from rural roads to handle excess surface runoff.
Because increased vegetative cover and improved water infiltration usually
bring about better crop growth, these modern approaches attract farmers by
offering immediate increases in productivity and returns, rather than the
delayed benefits characteristic of traditional approaches to soil
conservation based primarily on mechanical structures. Under the pilot
program, a Microcatchment State Commission (CEMH) was created in 1988
(Decree No. 1488 of April 8, 1988), and seventeen microcatchments, selected
in 17 municipalities, are now being supported through various incentive
programs to promote the adoption of modern land management and soil
conservation practices. The program emphasizes group participation in the
planning and implementation of microcatchment land management, soil
conservation and pollution control plans. Although it is too early yet to
assess the impact of the Santa Catarina pilot program, farmer response in
neighboring Parana, which launched its microcatchment program (PMISA) three



to four years earlier, has been positive, particularly with regard to use
of cover crops, mulching and low-cost contour bunding.
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01     The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to support policies
and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development
in a context of macroeconomic stability. The concern for sustained
development also leads to an emphasis on efficient resource allocation,
increased institutional efficiency, environmental sustainability, and the
appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. With
the increased use of inputs and mechanization in the agricultural sector,
land management and soil conservation issues are gaining importance, both
in terms of sustaining productivity improvements and protecting natural
resources and local ecosystems. The sncreasing soil erosion problems of
the nation's most intensely utilized and productive farmlands of the South
and Southeast threaten co undermine past efficiency gains. Through its
support for the proposed project, the second in a series of pioneer state
projects, the Bank would help the State of Santa Catarina develop
innovative approaches to economically viable investments in soil
conservation and overall land management with the objective of halting
natural resource depletion and raising economic and financial returns from
the state's agriculture. After further testing, it is expected that these
approaches could be adapted and extended to other states or regions.
3.02     The proposed project has its origins in the unprecedented floods
of 1983, which killed much livestock, caused catastrophic crop losses and
flooded many towns. FAO-CP emergency project assistance and UNDP/FAO
technical assistance in soil and water conservation were instrumental in
flagging the need to tackle the underlying causes of erosion and flooding
by improving soil and water conservation at the farm level. Furthermore,
recent data show that 75Z of rural water supplies are contaminated by
animal or human wastes, mostly carried by uncontrolled runoff, and over 60Z
of rural school children have intestinal parasites.  In 1987, the state
started a pilot program to introduce modern, integrated approaches to soil
and moisture conservation, using the microcatchment (microbacia) as the
basic unit for participatory planning and collective implementation.
Detailed work is currently being carried out in 17 of the state's 1,700
microcatchments. The proposed project would combine this participatory
philosophy with a better integrated technical strategy, supported by a more
effective incentive program and implemented by trained extension agents.
3.03     The project was appraised by the Bank in April 1989. and
negotiations are scheduled to take place in late September 1989 in
Washington, D. C. The Brazilian delegation will be led by
from the Federal Ministry of Planning.
Project Area
3.04     The project would support soil conservation in 520 microcatchments
selected amon, the state's nine river basins. The areas cover about 1.8
million ha (25? of the total farmland) distributed among 143 of the state's
199 municipalities (Map IBRD 21644). The selected microcatchments have
been identified in government surveys, with their priority status rated
using criteria based upon high actual or potential levels of economic
activity; high actual or potential susceptibility to water erosion; and
importance as a source of urban water supply (Annex 1, Table 1.4).



-9-
Project Obiectives and Beneficiaries
3.05     The objectives of the proposed project would be to increase
agricultural production, productivity and farm incomes by promoting the
adoption of sustainable, modern forms of land management and soil and water
conservation, thus safeguarding farmer incomes and the state's natural
resources. This would be achieved by promoting actions tot (a) increase
the extent and duration of vegetative cover of the soil, thus better
protecting it from sealing under intense rainfall; (b) improve internal
soil structure and drainage, thus increasing water infiltration; and (c)
safely dispose of any remaining runoff, either within or outside farm
boundaries. The results would be increased farm profitability, while soil
loss, the silting of reservoirs and stream beds, floo%.s, the destruction of
rural roads, falling water tables, pollution of water sources and depletion
of natural resources would be reduced. The project would also strengthen
the State of Santa Catarina's capacity to implement more efficiently an
expanded land management and soil conservation program. It would benefit
about 81,000 farmer families, about 902 of them small-scale farmers,
representing 31? of the total of farm operators in the state.
Complementary Activities to the Project
3.06     Agricultural Credit.  To adopt the new practices required for
improved land management and soil and water conservation, project
beneficiaries are expected to rely partly on credit. Under the
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR) the Bank is already supporting
the expansion of investment credit at market interest rates through the
commercial banking system. Investment credit requirements would amount to
about US$30.0 million, equivalent to some 50? of estimated incremental on-
farm investments of about US$61.0 million. To overcome farmers' reluctance
to use investment credit in the currently inflationary environment, SAMI,
through a specialized financing unit working closely with the Santa
Catarina State Bank (BESC), since 1984, has been funding through annual
budget allocations, and successfully operating and monitoring a
compensation fund (FUNDEPROR). The fund works as followss the banking
system indexes farmers' debt and interest payments on the basis of the
National Treasury Bond (OTN)2 and FUNDEPROR indexes them on the basis of
official minimum crop prices; in the event that the increase in minimum
prices in a given year lags behind the OTN index, the compensation fund
pays farmers the difference, if any, between their debts indexed in product
and in OTN. Although the compensation fund would not be included in
project costs or financed by the Bank, experience with the fund would be
monitored and evaluated during project implementation.
Project Description
3.07     The proposed project would have the following components:
(a) adaptive research, focusing on improved soil cover and structure;
(b) land use mapping, planning and monitoring; (c) rural extension, using
both public and private extension services, to assist in planning and
execution of microcatchment soil conservation plans; (d) an incentive
program, for land management, soil conservation and pollution control
activities which bring wider social benefits, through the provision of
financial assistance to microcatchment farmer associations; (e) erosion
2/ Abolished in early February 1989 and replaced by the National Treasury
Bond (BTN).



- 10 -
control works along rural roads to reduce erosion in the microcatchments;
(f) commercial and conservation forestry development and natural resource
protection; (g) project administration, monitoring and evaluation; and (h)
training. Project components are described briefly below (with, in
parentheses, the relative percentages of total project costs) and more
extensively in Annex 1.
3.08     Adaptive Research (71).   To strengthen EMPASC's adaptive research
on the theme of improved soil cover and soil structure, the proposed
project would include: (a) some 90 field research trials focusing on crop
nutrition (maize, beans, cassava, onion and soybean), crop rotation, green
manuring, alternative cultivation practices, small-scale mechanization,
agro-meteorology and commercial and conservation reforestation; (b) annual
production of up to 36 tons of basic seeds for green manure crops. To
carry out these tasks, a coordinator and an additional 15 researchers,
9 mid-level technicians and about 27 machine operators and field workers
would be assigned to the project. One seed processing unit and four
meteorological stations would be constructed and equipped, and five
existing meteorological stations would be re-equipped. In addition,
obsolete laboratory and farm equipment would be replaced at existing EMPASC
research stations (Map IBRD 21644). A condition of loan effectiveness
would be the signing of operating agreements (convenios) satisfactory to
the Bank between SAAI and EMPASC for the project research program, and
between EMPASC and the Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)
specifically for the small-scale mechanization research program, outlining
each agency's responsibilities for the execution of the adaptive research
component (para. 4.04 (a)).
3.09     Land Use Mapping, Planning and Monitoring (5X).  The proposed
project would include soil conservation and land use mapping of the 520
project microcatchments as a basis for a state-wide land use planning and
monitoring system. To carry out this task, EMPASC would establish a
central unit for surveying, mapping and monitoring at its headquarters in
Florianopolis. The project would finance: civil works, office equipment
and furniture, imported data processing equipment and software, and
incremental staffing costs for a coordinator, an additional 15
professionals and 9 digitizers, draftsmen and support staff. Under the
training component resources would be made available for specialized
training, including study tours abroad, and for twelve man-months of
foreign consultancy to assist in setting up the unit, reviewing the
methodology and monitoring staff training. In addition, the unit would
work closely with the recently created Remote Sensing Joint Laboratory of
Santa Catarina (LARS-SC), UFSC, and the Space Research Institute (ItPE). A
condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of an operating
agreement (convenio) satisfactory to the Bank between SAAI, EMPASC, LARS-SC
and UFSC outlining each agency's responsibility for the land use mapping,
planning and monitoring component (para. 4.04 (a)). The hiring of an
international consultant to assist EMPASC in developing its land use
mapping and monitoring system would be a condition of disbursement for the
component (para. 4.05 (a)).
3.10     Rural Extension (24Z).  To assist microcatchment land users in the
planning and execution of their farm plans for improved land management and
soil conservation, the proposed project would finance; (a) incremental
operating costs for up to about 150 EMATER-SC/ACARESC soil conservation
extensionists and 50 related support staff at the municipal level, and up
to 15 subject matter specialists at the regional and headquarters level;
*and (b) appropriate field equipment for the staff. In response to the



- 11 -
demand for extensionists from the private sector which the project would
generate, there is expected to be a parallel gradual mobilization of up to
about 110 technicians either funded by agro-industry associations and
cooperatives or provided by private agricultural consulting firms. EMATER-
SC municipal extensionists would be responsible for the initial formation,
in each new microcatchment, of a formal association of farmers. With the
assistance of the subject-matter specialist located at the EMATER-SC
regional office, and using the Technical Manual for Land Management and
Soil Conservation (para. 3.13). the municipal extensionist, together with
the farmer association, would prepare a mutually agreed land management and
soil conservation plan for the microcatchment. Technical targets would be
set for each farmer, supported where necessary by a written farm plan, a
credit application and an application to the Soil Conservation Fund (para.
3.11). Technical assistance at the farm level would be provided by staff
from four possible sources: EMATER-SC/ACARESC, cooperatives, agro-
industries and private agricultural planning enterprises. A condition of
loan effectiveness would be the signing of an operating agreement
(convenio) satisfactory to the Bank between SAAI, EMATER-SC, the State's
Organization of Cooperatives (OCESC), the major agro-industry associations
(SINDIFUMO and SINDICARNE) and the State's Association of Agricultural
Planning Enterprises (ABEPA-SC), creating a Coordinating Committee to agree
on annual work plans at the state, regional, and municipal levels and
establishing each agency's respective role, extension targets, staffing
plans, costs and source of funds (para. 4.04) (a)).
3.11     Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and
Pollution Control (122). The objective of this component is to help
farmers belonging to a microcatchment association properly plan land
management and implement collective soil conservation and pollution control
measures.  The component would include the creation, through annual budget
allocations, of a Soil Conservation (SC) Fund with clearly established
selection criteria, grant rates and limits, and close monitoring. The SC
Fund would reorient and consolidate the state subsidies with a view to
gradually phasing out their total amount by the end of project
implementation as the benefits of the program become more visible to
farmers. The SC Fund of about US$6.8 million (baseline cost) would make
grants to partially finance, through a declining scale of rates, various
soil conservation subprojects. Seven types of subprojects would be
financially assisted: (i) three for farmer groups: purchase of sets of
specific farm implements to undertake reduced tillage and improved land
management practices (such as lime spreaders, deep rippers, manure
spreaders, harrow/fertilizer spreaders, knife rollers); construction of
agro-chemicals mixing points and construction of toxic waste disposal pits,
both to avoid pollution of streams and rivers; and (ii) four for individual
farmers: improved soil conservation practices on about 156,000 ha (such as
contour farming, vegetative contour barriers, stonewalls, bunding and,
where justified, terracing); construction of fermentation tanks for animal
waste; annual purchase of up to 360 tons of seeds for green manure crops;
and purchase of inputs for the planting of 41,000 ha of small-scale
commercial reforestation at the microcatchment level. A draft Operational
Manual defining selection criteria (such as farm size and gross value of
production), grant rates and limits, and operating procedures to guide
extension staff on the use of the SC Fund was reviewed and agreed upon
during negotiations (para. 3.14).
3.12     Institutional arrangements for the SC Fund would be as follows.
Before the fiscal year begins, the extension service would undertake a
field survey using municipal extensionists to estimate the amount of



- 12 -
resources (for individual and farmer group subprojects) that could be
required for the following year. The Project Administrative Unit (AU)
created within SAAI would be responsible for administering the SC Fund
through the SAAI's specialized financing unit, which is already operating
the credit compensation fund (para. 3.06). It would consolidate the
state's needs and present them by the end of July each year for approval to
the Hicrocatchment State Commission (CEMH) created under the state pilot
program (para. 2.12) Once the financial ceiling for the next year's
program had been established, the AU would not need to return to the CEMH
for financial authorization for disbursements from the SC Fund unless the
approved ceiling had been exceeded.
3.13     Within a particular microcatchment, the EMATER-SC municipal
extensionist would be responsible for stimulating farmers' interest in land
management and for assisting in the drafting of a microcatchment management
plan. Land management plans for individual farms, covering a four-year
period, would be drafted by the 3MATE$-SC municipal extensionist or by a
private extensionist together with the farmer. Farmers would receive
incentives from the SC Fund only during the first two years. A Technical
Manual for Land Management and Soil Conservation to assist project
extensionists in technical principles would be prepared jointly by EMPASC
and EMATER-SC through the consolidation and improvement of existing
technical bulletins. The microcatchment management plan and the request
for funds, both for collective and individual subprojects, would then be
reviewed for approval first at the microcatchment level and then by the
respective Microcatchment Municipal Commission (CMMH) which would group
local representatives of state government services, banks, cooperatives,
farmers and rural workers under the coordination of the EMATER-SC municipal
extensionist. Requests that had not been formally approved by at least 70Z
of the members of the concerned microcatchment association would not be
forwarded to the CMMH. Consolidated, approved plans from a municipality
would be reviewed and consolidated by the respective AU regional
coordinator and forwarded to AU headquarters. The AU would then prepare
the draft consolidated state plan, have it approved by the CEMH, forward
the approved microcatchment plans to the SAAI's specialized financing unit
and advise the respective CMMH for implementation. Once a subproject had
been completed by an individual or by a farmer group, the intended
beneficiary would request payment from the SC Fund through his CMMH and
attach to his request a signed promissory note, valid for four years, for
the value of the subsidy requested. Disbursement by the AU to the
beneficiary would only be made once the CMMH and the extensionist
responsible for the development of the subproject had verified its
satisfactory completion. If a beneficiary does not use and maintain the
subproject as intended during the four-year period, the promissory note
would be used as a legal means to have the subsidy refunded with full
monetary correction.
3.14     A condition of loan effectiveness would be the presentation to the
Bank of a satisfactory Operational Manual to guide extension staff on the
use of the SC Fund (para. 4.04 (b)). During negotiations the State
Government provided assurances that: (a) the provisions of such agreed
Operational Manual would be satisfactorily implemented and would not be
changed without prior Bank approval; (b) a satisfactory Technical Manual
for Land Management and Soil Conservation would be presented to the Bank
not later than June 30, 1990, and, thereafter, used by project
extensionists; (c) the pertormance of the SC Fund would be annually and
jointly evaluated by the AU and EMATER-SC, and the conclusions of the
evaluation presented to the Bank not later than March 31 in the following



- 13 -
year; end (d) as part of the mid-tern evaluation, and not later than June
30, 1994, the Bank and the AU would examine, using specific criteria,
including the degree of farmer participation and responsiveness and number
of subloans and amount of investment credit contracted by the project
beneficiaries, the possibility of accelerating the phasing out of the
incentive program (para. 4.02 (a)).
3.15     Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads (292).  This component
would aim to overcome localized erosion problems caused by water runoff
along an existing network of about 14,000 km of rural roads in the project
area. The various types of erosion control road works would be integral
parts of the microcatchment management plans (para. 3.13). In accordance
with the results of a sample survey of rural roadwork needs carried out on
12 microcatchments, this component would include: (a) road sub-grade
reshaping on some 3,900 km, including some 975 km with regravelling;
(b) various erosion control works spread along the network of 3,900 km,
including intersections with farm roads, junctions with field terraces,
pipe culverts, flood control tanks, divergent ditches and other drainage
works that allow for quick permeation of excess runoff; and (c) monitoring
and supervision of roadworks, including engineering. The State Road
Department (DER-SC) within the State Secretariat of Transport and Public
Works (SET-SC) would be responsible for monitoring and supervising the
roadworks through a Coordinating Unit, comprised of a coordinator assisted
by two road engineers, and the existing network of supervision and field
offices. Guidelines for erosion control roadworks, both on technical and
procurement matters, would be prepared for use by DER-SC's field office
staff involved in the implementation of the component. DER-SC would also
continue to assist the municipalities in maintaining their rural road
networks.
3.16     Prior to negotiations, the Bank was provided with: (a)
satisfactory draft guidelines including technical specifications, bidding
documents and a model of a contract for small contractors, as well as a
model of an operating agreement (convenio) to be entered into between SET-
SC and each municipality for the maintenance of any road section improved
under the project; and (b) a copy of the Decree No. 3814 dated
September 11, 1989 creating the Coordinating Unit within DER-SC (para. 4.01
(a)). A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of an
operating agreement (convenio) satisfactory to the Bank between SAAI and
DER-SC, through SET-SC, outlining each agency's responsibilities for the
implementation, monitoring and supervision of erosion control roadworks
(para. 4.04 (a)). The signature, prior to initiating any erosion control
roadworks in a municipality, of a convenio, following the agreed model,
between SET-SC and the municipality for the maintenance of the road
sections to be improved, would be a condition of disbursement for the
component (para. 4.05 (b)).
3.17     Forestry Development and Natural Resources Protection (122).  This
component, subdivided into three subcomponents, would aim to assist the
state to: (a) develop its conservation and commercial forestry programs;
(b) enforce improved environmental legislation concerning land use, soil
conservation and rural pollution in the project area; and (c) protect and
manage three state parks and biological reserves. The conservation and
commercial forestry subcomponent would include production, mostly
contracted to private nurseries, of about 15 million seedlings of native
species (such as Araucaria, Mimosa Scabrella, Ocotea, etc.) to plant about
12,000 ha for conservation purposes at the microcatchment level on public
(municlpal) or private land, and about 82 million seedlings of eucalyptus



- 14-
and pine species to plant about 41,000 ha of commercial forest for timber,
housing poles and fuelvood. The environmental protection subcomponent
would enforce in the 520 project microcatchments improved legislation on
land uzse and soil conservation through periodic field visits combined with
systematized soil erosion and water pollution monitoring and control. The
parks and biological reserves subco_.ponent would include complementary land
"discrimination'3 processes to consolidate state ovnership, and improved
protection and management of three state parks and biological reserves (Map
IBRD 21645).  The project would financet nursery equipmen;. for an
additional 70 private nurseries to be repaid fully after the first year
with full monetary correction; planting material for conservation forestry;
testing equipment and periodic soil erosion control and water analyses;
additional park and biological reserve infrastructure (four field offices,
one auditorium, six sheds, seven manager and guard houses, one watch tower,
fencing and power lines); incremental staffing costs for an addition of
about 15 forest nursery technicians, and about 15 park managers and guards;
and operating costs for eight "discrimination* processes.
3.18     CIDASC would be responsible for the execution of the conservation
and commercial forestry subcomponent. It would help insiLall up to 130
additional private nurseries at the microcatchment level. Seedlings for
commercial (exotic species) and conservation (native species) reforestation
would be sold by nurseries at market prices to farmers and CIDASC,
respectively. Native species would be provided free of charge to farmers.
FATMA would be responsible for the enforcement of the state environmental
law in the project area using an existing team of 24 technicians
distributed among its eight regional offices. FATMA's Superintendency for
Natural Resources would be responsible for the implementation of the parks
and biological reserves sub-component, and would be assisted in the land
"discrimination* process by the Office of the State Attorney General.
3.19     Prior to negotiations, the Bank was provided with copies of the
decree to complement the existing state environmental law, and of the
decision taken by the State Attorney General to carry out the land
"discrimination' process still required in the area of the project parks
(para. 4.01 (b)). During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that the provisions of the decree complementing the regulation
of the existing environmental law or other similar state legislation would
remain in force and effective during project implementation (para. 4.02
(b)). A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of operating
agreement (convenios) satisfactory to the Bank between: (i) SAAI and
CIDASC; (ii) SAAI and FATMA, through SEDUMA; and (iii) SAAI, FATMA, through
SEDUMA, and the State Attorney General, outlining each agency's
responsibilities for conservation and commercial forestry development, the
enforcement of the improved environmental law, and the protection of three
state parks and biological reserves, respectively (para. 4.04 (a)).
3.20     Proiect Administration, Monitorina and Evaluation (6Z).  A project
Administration Unit (AU) to be established within SAAI, with an Executive
Secretary, an Administration and Finance Manager, a Technical Manager, a
Training Manager, and nine regional coordinators would administer and
monitor project planning and implementation. The AU would report to a
project Management Committee chaired by the SMI Secretary. The project
would finance additional office equipment and operating costs for 15 high-
level staff as well as related administrative staff. The AU would be
3/ Process which includes verification of the validity of existing claims
to disputed public land.



- 15 -
directly responsible for the implementation of the incentive program for
land management, soil conservation and pollution control component, as well
as the training component. It would receive monthly reports from the
esecuting agencies on k-ey physical and financial indicators, prepare
quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries, and be responsible for project
monitoring. Baseline, mid-term and ex-post evaluations of the socio-
economic impact of che project would be the responsibility of the State
Institute of Planning and Agro-Economics (CEPA-SC).
3.21     While awaiting the final approval by the State Legislative
Assembly of the decree creating the AU, an AU acting team has been
appointed to monitor project start-up activities. Executing agency
coordinators have also been named (para. 4.01 (c)). During negotiations,
the State Government provided assurances that: (a) it would maintain the AU
with organization, structure and functions, including an Executive
Secretary assisted at headquarters and at the regional level by competent
staff in adequate numbers, all acceptable to the Bank; (b) quarterly
progress reports would be sent to the Bank not later than three months
after the end of each fiscal quarter; (c) the project baseline evaluation
mould be sent to the Bank no later than June 30, 1990; and (d) satisfactory
Terms of Reference for the project mid-term and ex-post evaluations would
be presented to the Bank and the reports sent not later than June 30, 1994,
and September 30. 1997, respectively (para. 4.02 (c)). Conditions of loan
effectiveness would be: (a) the signing of an operating agreement
(convenio) satisfactory to the Bank between SAMI and CEPA-SC outlining
their respective responsibilities for the evaluation of the project; (para.
4.04 (a)); (b) the signing of the resolution regulating the project
Management Committee and the AU (para 4.04 (c)); (c) satisfactory staffing
of the latter (para. 4.04 (d)); and (d) the receipt by the Bank of
satisfactory Terms of Reference for the project baseline evaluation (para.
4.04 (e)).
3.22     Training (52).  A wide-ranging training component would train
public and private technicians and farmers in modern land management and
soil conservation practices, as well as raise awareness of the technical
requirements and principles of soil conservation among community
representatives, politicians, project management and the public at large.
Component implementation would be the overall responsibility of the
Training Manager within the AU. The project would finance consultancies
(40 man-months), training equipment, bulletins and publicity and training
programs. It would also include preparation oft two field manuals for the
guidance of extension staff -- the Operational Manual on operating
procedures for the use of the SC Fund -- and the Technical Manual on
technical principles to be used in project execution; and a manual of
guidelines for the guidance of DER-SC staff. A full training program has
been designed. It will be updated through yearly training programs that
would be presented to the Bank by August 30 each year for review and
comments (para. 3.25). Training programs would be geared to: non-farmers
(orientation on the topic of land management), farmers, skilled workers and
especially project technicians. The latter would include short-term study
tours within Brazil and abroad as well as periodic evaluation seminars.
Responsibility for the training of public and private extensionists would
be divided between EMATER-SC subject matter specialists and EMPASC
researchers.
Proiect Organization and Implementation
3.23     State Level.  The project would be executed by SAMI.  At the state
level, a Management Committee, chaired by the SAMI Secretary, and including



- 16 -
the Secretaries of Planning and General Coordination. Finance, Urban
Development and Environment, and Transport and Public Works, was created in
July 1989 and will have overall responsibility for project policy, budgets
and institutional coordination. The CEMH, on which EMATER-SC, banks,
cooperatives, farmers and rural workers are represented, and chaired by the
SAAI Secretary, would review and approve physical and financial timetables
for execution of the microcatchment land management plans before their
submission to the Management Committee. The AU would prepare budgets and
operating plans for final submission to the Management Committee,
administer two components (para. 3.20), coordinate activities of the
various executing agencies, monitor project execution and prepare quarterly
progress reports and consolidated financial accounts.
3.24     Regional and Municipal Level.  At the regional and municipal level
the project would be administered through the nine AU regional
coordinators. Contacts with farmers and communities would be the
responsibility of EMATER-SC. Coordination of project executing entities --
private, communal and governmental -- as well as the approval of
microcatchment soil conservation plans and the processing of farmers'
requests for support under the SC Fund, would be the responsibility of the
CMMHs under the coordination of the AU's regional coordinators.
3.25     Annual Planning and budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation
period. In June of each year, each executing agency (EMPASC, EMATER-SC,
DER-SC, CIDASC, FATMA, CEPA-SC and the AU) would prepare an annual plan,
detailing the activities and expected expenditures for the following
calendar year. The AU would review these plans, consolidate them after
ensuring internal consistency, and submit the consolidated operating plan
and budget to the Management Committee for its review and approval. The
consolidated operating plan and budget would be presented before August 30
to the State Government for further review and approval by the State
Assembly by October 31. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assu-ances that the annual work program proposal for project activities,
including the physical targets, budget, staffing, training and procurement
programs for each executing agency, would be made available to the Bank by
August 30 each year for review and comments (para. 4.02 (d).
3.26     Operating Agreements.  Agreements would be entered between:  SAMI
and executing agencies involved in the execution of each project component.
These agreements would include execution guidelines and targets, reporting
requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration and, whenever
justified, funding conditions linked to performance criteria. Drafts of
these nine operating agreements were reviewed prior to negotiations and
changes agreed upon in substance. The signing of these agreements
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. (para.
4.04 (a)).
3.27     Accounts and Auditing.  Each state executing agency would maintain
separate accounts for project expenditures, which would be consolidated by
the AU.  The project accounts together with the FESA Special Account (para.
3.38) held abroad by SAAI would be audited annually by independent private
or public auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Central Bank would maintain
the CESA Special Account (para. 3.38) and would prepare annually a
"Statement of Transactions and Availability of Funds" which would be
presented for audit by either the Secretariat of the National Treasury
(STN) or an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. After the audit,
and not later than six. months after the close of the project's fiscal year,



- 17 -
SMAI and the Central Bank would transmit to the Bank certified copies of
the audited accounts, together with certified copies of the auditors'
reports.
3.28     Statements of project accounts would be consolidated by and
retained in the AU office in Florianopolis and made available for Bank
supervision. During the course of annual audits of project accounts, the
independent auditors would test check the preparation of the Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) supporting disbursement requests, the internal controls
of project transactions and the implementation of these controls, the
supporting evidence for the expenditures and the eligibility of the
expenses in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The audit report would
also include a description of Lhe audit procedures followed. The separate
project accounts maintained for the project by the state executing agencies
would be available for review and spot checked by the Bank during
supervision.
3.29     During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that: (a) the Special Accounts and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually by satisfactory independent auditors
according to standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms
of reference of the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures
for the examination and verification of the SOEs for the project accounts;
and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
each project fiscal year (para. 4.03).
Proiect Cost
3.30     Total project costs are estimated at US$71.6 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$8.3 million, or about 122 (Loan and
Project Suimmary). Foreign exchange requirements are based on the
assumptions that all goods and services would be acquired in Brazil with
the exception of foreign consultant services, study tours abroad, and data
processing equipment and software not manufactured in Brazil. The cost
estimate includes about US$6.3 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical
and price contingencies are equivalent to 5? and 242 of baseline costs,
respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15?
for civil works, 5Z for equipment, furniture and technical assistance, and
0? for recurrent costs.   Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar
terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 7.2? for 1989
and 1990 and 4.4? p.a. thereafter. It was assumed that periodic local
currency devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would
compensate for differences between projected US dollar inflation and local
inflation rates. Recent experience indicates that this assumption may not
be valid in some cases; increases in local currency costs for civil
construction over the last year have exceeded the rate of devaluation of
the local currency. It is, however, uncertain as to whether and to what
extent this trend would continue in the future. Therefore, project costs
would be carefully monitored throughout the project implementation period.
In the event that this trend continues, it would become necessary for the
Government to finance these cost overruns, and the Bank, if needed, would
reduce its disbursement percentages to maintain participation through
project completion.



- 18 -
FinancinR Plan
3.31     The proposed Bank loan of US$33.0 million equivalent would finance
502 of total estimated costs, net of taxes, or 4LZ including taxes. The
loan would f4nance 10O2 of foreign exchange costs and 39Z of local costs.
It would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace period.
The Government of the State of Santa Catarina would be the Borrower of the
loan and would assume the foreign exchange risk. The Federative Republic
of Brazil would be the Guarantor of the loan. The Treasury of the State of
Santa Catarina would provide counterpart funds, except those required for
rural credit. Rural credit would be financed either by the Federal
Government under the existing official rural credit line or by the Bank and
participating banks under the Agricultural Credit Project (para. 3.06).
Prior to negotiations, the State Government provided evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that it has proposed in its draft 1990 budget submitted to the
State Legislative Assembly the needed amount for expenditures required for
the project in 1990 (para. 4.01 (d)). To enable executing agencies to
prepare for project start-up activities, particularly training, project
expenditures incurred after April 19, 1989, but prior to loan signing
(expected within twelve months), would be eligible for reimbursement up to
US$1.2 million equivalent, or 42 of the loan amount.
Procurement
3.32     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Arrangem.nts
(USS millton)
Procurement Methoo
Category                 ICe         LCB          Other       TotaI Cost
Civil Works, Land Development   -           18.1(8.1)    4.0 (1.8)       22.1 (9.9)
Equipment and Furniture           4(4)       2.2( .0)    -               2.6 (1.2)
Technical Assistance and Training    -       -           2.1 (1.3)       2.1 (1.3)
Grantn under the SC Fund        -            -           8. 8 (8 )       6.8 (6.8)
Salaries and BenefIts           -            -           24.1 (9.8)      24.1 (9.6)
Oth-r Operating Expenses        -            -           11.9 (4.7)      11.9 (4.7)
Totel                           4(.4)     20.8(8.9)    S0.9(28.7)      71.6(38.0)
Note: Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts (including contingencies) expected to &e
financed by tho Bank.
3.33     Contracts for goods above US$300,000 would be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines for
procurement. This would include only the purchase of data processing
equipment and software not manufactured in Brazil. Total ICB procurement
would amount to about US$0.4 million.
3.34     Contracts for civil works are not expected to exceed US$500,000
and would be procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works include: buildings, land
development, and erosion control road works along rural roads; the
aggregated value of these works is estimated at about US$22.1 million.
Contracts for erosion control road works would be small and dispersed.
Whenever possible, individual lots of about US$25,000 would be grouped
together under one contract of at least US$150,000. Contracts for goods



- 19 -
below US$300,000 would be locally procured by the several executing
agencies over the project iilementation period, using LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; the aggregated value of these contracts would
amount to US$2.2 million. Vehicles and data processing equipment
manufactured in Brazil and required by the project, as reserved procurement
items, would not be financed under the proposed loan; their estimated cost
of US$4.7 million has been excluded from total project cost and the amount
of the Bank loan. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that those items would be procured in a timely manner (para.
4.02 (e)).
3.35     When erosion control road works are small and scattered and cannot
be grouped (para. 3.34), they would be carried out by force account. The
aggregate value of such works would not exceed US$4.0 million, or about 182
of total procurement of civil works.
3.36     Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and
goods and equipment contracts for more than US$150,000 would be subject to
prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid evaluations, award proposals
and final contracts. In total, Bank prior review would cover about 70? of
the value of contracts financed under the project. Consultant services for
technical assistance, totalling 40 man-months, would be contracted in
accordance with Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the State Government
provided assurances that the above procurement arrangements would be
followed (para. 4.02 (f)).
Disbursements and Special Accounts
3.37     The proce"ds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at a rate cf
80? against project expenditures made for incentive programs for land
management, soil conservation and pollution control (SC Fund) snd 50? for
land use mapping, planning and monitoring (with the exception of imported
data processing equipment and software which would be disbursed at a rate
of 10O), erosion control work6 along rural roads, forestry development and
natural resource protection, and training (with the exception of foreign
consultancy and training abroad which would be disbursed at a rate of
1002). Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high share
of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 652 of project expenditures
until aggregate amounts of US$1.0 million for adaptive research, US$3.3
million for rural extension and US$.8 million for project administration
have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements for those categories would
be made at a rate of 40? of project expenditures until aggregate amounts of
US$1.5 Million for adaptive research, US$5.1 million for rural extension
and US$1.2 million for project administration have been disbursed; the
remaining funds for these components would be disbursed at 15? of
expenditures. This schedule has been designed in order to allow a higher
Bank financing of project costs in the first two years (about 70Z) with a
corresponding decrease in the later years. Using this profile, 80? of
disbursement would take place during the project's first five years.
Disbursements for civil works contracts not exceeding US$250,000, contracts
for goods and equipment not exceeding US$150,000, on-farm grants under the
SC Fund, and operating expenses would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the various executing agencies and
certified by SAAI. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the
Bank but would be made available for inspection by the Bank during project
supervision missions.



- 20 -
3.38     In order to reduce the interval during which the State of Santa
Catarina would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own
resources, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the
Central Bank to cover local currency expenditures with an initial deposit
of US$2.0 million. The amount deposited in this Special Account (CESA)
could be increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project
execution. SAAI would be entitled to make periodic withdrawals from the
Special Account at the exchange rate applicable on the day upon which ea:h
payment for eligible local expenditures is made. Foreign exchange
expenditures incurred would be made from a second Special Account (FESA)
which would be established by SMI in a commercial bank abroad acceptable
to the Bank, with an initial deposit of US$.15 million. The Bank would
replenish both Special Accounts for the amount of withdrawals on account of
eligible expenditures at the request of SAAI. In accordance with the Bank
standard profile for s.milar types of projects, disbursements are expected
to occur over about seven- and-a-half years as shown in the estimated
disbursement schedule (Loan and Project Summary).
Project Benefits and Justification
3.39     Production. Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The project would increase
agricultural production through sustainable productivity gains, a slight
increase in cropping intensity, and better land use (commercial forestry).
Within the 1.8 million ha of farmland covered by the 520 microcatchments
of the project area, about 240,000 ha (352 of area under annual crops and
11 of area under forest regrowth), are expected to fully benefit from
improved land management and soil conservation practices. Of thosa, about
130,000 ha would receive green manuring, about 48,000 ha would be deep
ripped, about 176,000 ha would receive liming, and about 156,000 ha would
be subject to contour strip cropping, vegetative barriers, stone walls,
bunding, terracing, and other forms of soil erosion and pollution control.
Use of heavy tillage in land preparation would be substantially reduced in
the mechanized farm lands in the northwest corner of the state. These
developments, together with improved crop rotation, some varietal changes,
and commercial reforestation are expected to lead at full development to an
annual incremental output value of US$41 million. Approximately 712 of
this amount would come from improved productivity of seven main crops
(maize, edible beans, soybean, wheat, tobacco, cassava and onion) and 292
from commercial forestry (fuelwood and timber). The incremental production
would be marketed through existing commercial channels; local markets would
absorb maize, beans, wheat, cassava, onion, and forest products. Soybean
and tobacco would be exported. These expanded agricultural activities
vould create permanent and temporary employment equivalent to some 3,900
man-years annually.
3.40     Six rainfed farm models representative of the nine river basins
h ve been selected to test the financial impact of the improved land
management practices on farm incomes. Analyses show financial rates of
return ranging from 192 to 28Z. Net annual farm benefits from the main
crops, which currently vary from US$1,875 to US$3,800, would increase at
full development to a range of US$1,735 to US$4,855, instead of declining
without the project to a range of US$1,225 to US$3,515.
3.41     In addition to the directly quantifiable impact on yields and
outputs of the main agricultural and forestry products, the project is



- 21 -
expected to generate various indirect benefits such as a reduction in rural
road maintenance, pollation of water sources, the silting of river beds and
reservoirs and flooding.
3.42     Environmental Impact.  The project is expected to have a
significant, beneficial impact on the environment by supporting erosion and
pollution control activities at the microcatchment level, includings
conservation forestry; commercial forestry development to take pressure off
the remaining native forests as suppl' _s of wood raw material; enforcement
of an improved state environmental law; expanded protected area for, and
improved protection and management of, three state parks and biological
reserves; and conservation training for state employees, farmers and the
general public.
3.43     Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery.  The economic activities
generated by the proposed project are expected to provide the State of
Santa Catarina with additional fiscal revenues of about US$5.0 million
annually generated by the federal tax on the circulation of goods (ICMS)
that would apply to the incremental marketable production and would be
retained by the State Treasury and municipalities. In addition, subsidies
for soil conservation subprojects would be gradually reduced and phased out
by project Year 7.
3.44     Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the project
has been estimated at 15Z. It has been calculated for the directly
productive components (representing about 87? of project costs) with
readily quantifiable economic benefits. The economic costs include all
project investment and operating costs and on-farm costs estimated on a per
hectare basis for the main commodities, resulting from the adoption of
improved land management and soil conservation practices on 24G,000 ha of
farmland (as a result of the adoption rates defined in para. 3.40). The
cost and benefit streams are detailed in Annex 3. Sensitivity tests show
that the rate is fairly insensitive to variations in project costs and
benefits. With a rise of 202 in project cost or a fall of 20S in project
benefits, the rate would still be 13Z.
Proiect Risks
3.45     The project's principal risk is that the interest among the farmer
community in controlling soil erosion could fail to spread as a result of;
(a) farmers' reluctance to take relatively expensive investment credit in
the current uncertain economic environment; (b) insufficient inter-
institutional cooperation; and (c) shortfalls in counterpart funding. The
project has been designed to minimize these risks. The consolidation under
the SC Fund of an integrated incentive program to assist microcatchment
farmer associations in financing land management, soil conservation and
pollution control works, and the overall participatory philosophy of the
project should encourage farmers to invest in soil conservation and
pollution control activities. The integration of most project executing
agencies under the authority of the SAAI, the setting up of a strong
monitoring and evaluation system, and intensive staff training should
ensure efficient project coordination. Finally, the state's improved
financial situation and the support the project enjoys among state
authorities should help avoid shortfalls in counterpart funding.



- 22 -
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE RdEACHED AND RECONMENDATION
4.01     Prior to negotiations, the Bank was provided with:
(a)    (i) satisfactory 4raft guidelines including technical
specifications, bidding documents and a model of a contract for
small erosion control road works, as well as a model of an
agreement (convenio) to be entered into between SET-SC and each
project municipality for the maintenance of any road section
improved under the project; and (ii) a satisfactory draft decree
creating the Coordinating Unit within DER-SC (para. 3.16);
(b)    copies of the decree No. 3610, dated July 27, 1989 to complement
the existing state environmental law, and of the decision taken by
the State Attorney General to carry out the complementary
IdiscriminationO processes required in the area of the project
parks, (para. 3.19);
(c)    evidence of the appointment of the AU acting team (portaria SAAI
No. 0067/89 dated July 6, 1989) and of the executing agency
coordinators (para. 3.21); and
(d)    evidence of the inclusion in the draft 1990 state budget of the
needed amount for 1990 project expenditures (para. 3.31).
4.02     During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a)   (i) the provisions of the agreed Operational Manual for the use of
the SC Fund would be satisfactorily implemented and would not be
changed without prior Bank approval; (ii) a satisfactory Technical
Hanual for Land Management and Soil Conservation would be
presented to the Bank not later than June 30, 1990 and,
thereafter, used by project extensionists; (iii) the performance
of the SC Fund would be annually and jointly evaluated by the AU
and EHATER-SC and the conclusions of the evaluation presented to
the Bank not later than March 31 in the following year; and (iv)
as part of the mid-term evaluation, and not later than June 30,
1994, the Bank and the AU would examine, using specific criteria,
including the degree of farmer participation and responsiveness to
the program and number of subloans and amount of investment credit
contracted by the project beneficiaries, the possibility of
accelerating the phasing out of the incentive program (para.
3.14);
(b)   the provisions of the decree complementing the regulation of the
existing environmental law or other similar state legislation
would remain in force and effect during project implementation
(para. 3.19);
(c)   (i) it would maintain within SAAI a Project Administrative Unit
(AU) with organization, structure and functions, including an
Executive Director assisted at headquarters and at the regional
level by competent staff in adequate numbers, all acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) quarterly progress reports would be sent to the
Bank not later than three months after the end of each fiscal



- 23 -
quarter; (iii) the baseline evaluation would be sent to the Bank
not later than June 30, 19901 and (iv) satisfactory Terms of
Reference for the project mid-term and ex-post evaluations would
be presented to the Bank and the reports sent not later than
June 30, 1994, and September 30, 1997, respectively (pars. 3.21);
(d)   the annual vork program proposal, including the physical targets,
budget, staffing, training and procurement programs for each
executing agency, would be made available tc the Bank by August 30
each year for review and comments (para. 3.25);
(e)   the vehicles and computers necessary for project implementation
would be procured in a timely manner (para. 3.34); and
(f)   procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.32 to
3.36.
4.03     During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances thats (i) the Special Accounts and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually according to standards and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors would
include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the examination and
verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; and (iii) certified
copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 3.29).
4.04     Conditions of loan effectiveness would bet (a) the signing of nine
agreements satisfactory to the Bank to be entered into between: (i) SMAI
and EMPASC, and between EMPASC and UPSC for agricultural research; (ii)
SAAI, EMPASC, LARS-SC and UFSC for land use mapping, planning and
monitoring (para. 3.09); (iii) SAAI, EMATER-SC, OCESC, SINDICARNE,
SINDIFUMO and ABEPA-SC for rural extension (para. 3.10); (iv) SAAI and DER-
SC, through SET-SC, for erosion control along rural roads (para. 3.16); (v)
SAAI and CIDASC, betveen SAAI and FATMA, through SEDUMA, and between SAAI,
FATMA, through SEDUMA, and the State Attorney General for conservation and
commercial forestry development, environmental law enforcement, and state
park and biological reserves protection, respectively (para. 3.19; and (vi)
SAAI and CEPA-SC for project evaluation (para. 3.21); (b) completion and
approval of a satisfactory Operational Manual defining selection criteria,
grant rates and limits and operating procedures for the use of the SC Fund
(para. 3.14); (c) the signing of the resolution regulating the project
Management Committee and the AU (para. 3.21); (d) satisfactory staffing of
the latter (para. 3.21); and (e) the receipt by the Bank of satisfactory
Terms of Reference for the project baseline evaluation (para. 3.21).
4.05     Conditions of disbursement would be: (a) for land use mapping,
planning and monitoring, the hiring of a consultant to assist EMPASC in
implementing this component (para. 3.09); and (b) for erosion control works
along rural roads, the signing, prior to initiating any erosion control
roadworks in a municipality, of a convenio, following the agreed model,
between SET-SC and the municipality for maintenance of the road sections to
be improved (para. 3.16).
4.06     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$33.0 million equivalent
with a term of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
October 27, 1989



ANNEX 1
- 94 -                        Page 1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
PROJECT DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A. Technical Strategy Adopted to Overcome Natural Resource Degradation
1.       The most significant natural resource degradation in Santa
Catarina results from: (i) water-induced soil erosion as a result of the
depletion of the native forest cover and the expansion of cultivation onto
marginal, steep land; and (ii) increased pollution of water sources as a
result of uncontrolled water runoff, animal waste (mostly from poultry and
pig farms) and toxic waste dumping.
2.       Erosion starts when the bare soil is exposed to highly erosive
summer storms. The impact of rain detaches small soil particles which
later clog soil pores and seal the surface (rainsplash effect). Rain which
cannot infiltrate is lost, as surface runoff, carrying away more soil
particles and causing erosion damage, silting and flooding. To prevent
water-induced soil erosion, land management strategy must achieve three
objectives: (i) minimize rainsplash effect by protecting the soil surface
from sealing; (ii) minimize excess runoff by maximizing the rate and amount
of infiltration; and (iii) minimize water runoff's ability to flow and form
gullies, by limiting its accumulation and velocity. The choice of the mos'.
suitable technique to achieve these objectives will depend on each farm's
particular situation and especially on the intensity in the use of capital
and labor in each particular farming system. To minimize both the
rainsplash effect and the excess runoff, farmers would rely on liming, to
stimulate crop biomass production and productivity, cropping rotations, to
include green manure crops, contour farming and stripcropping, reduced
tillage associated with deep ripping, and low-cost vegetative contour
barriers (such as Vetiveria zizanioides or Khus grass). Most of these
practices generally result in quick improvements in yields and financial
returns that attract farmers. They would be combined with improved
handling and disposal of both agro-chemicals and animal waste. To achieve
the third objective of the technical strategy -- minimizing water surface
runoff's ability to form gullies -- farmers would concentrate their efforts
on the construction of mechanical structures, such as stonewalls, bunds,
terraces and improved drainage for rural roads. Since the handling of
excessive runoff implies a collectively agreed control plan, the success of
the technical strategy would depend on the involvement of all land users
within a microcatchment.
B. Proiect Area - Microcatchment Selection
3.       The technical strategy underlines the need to implement the
project on the basis of microcatchments. To simplify matters, before
prioritizing microcatchments, the sixteen state homogenous micro-regions



ANNEX 1
- 25 -                         Page 2
were regrouped into nine major river basins or sub-basins:
Chapeco/Irani/Antas, Ararangua/Mampitube, Itajai-Acu, JacutingalPeixe,
Tubarao/D'Una, Tijucas/Da Madre, Cubatao,Itapocu, Negro/Canoinhas and
CanoasfPelotas (Map IBRD 21644). The nine river basins were ranked with
points according to four major criteria as follows: (i) 10 to 90 points on
the relative importance of the river basin in the sector economy (4 to 36
on population density; 4 to 36 on annual cropping area; and 2 to 18 on
irrigated area); (ii) 9 to 81 points on the degree of erodibility (4 to 36
on soil susceptibility to erosion; 2 to 18 on unprotected cropped area
during winter; 1 to 9 on unprotected cropped area during summer; 1 to 9 on
annual rainfall; and 1 to 9 on number of tractors per 1000 ha); (iii) 8 to
72 points on the degree of forest cleared (4 to 36 on relative percentage
of area under forest cover; and 4 to 36 on the density of the active
population); and (iv) 6 to 54 points on the degree of pollution (2 to 18 on
pig herd; 2 to 18 on slaughter-house capacity; 1 to 9 on relative
importance of pulp and paper industry; and 1 to 9 on relative importance of
mining). Out of a possible total rating of 297 points, each river basin
was then ranked and given a relative priority. The number of
microcatchments per river basin was then decided upon by combining the
relative area of each river basin in relation to the total area and the
points awarded for the river basin's relative priority (Table 1.4).
4.       Finally, the actual choice of a microcatchment by the respective
Microcatchment Municipal Commission (CMMH) would depend on the following
factors: concentration of small and medium farmers, interest shown by
farmers in investing in land management, importance of food crops, and the
degree of soil erosion and water pollution.
C. Detailed Features of Proiect Components
Adaptive Research
5.       The adaptive research component would concentrate on:  development
of soil conservation practices based on vegetative means; introduction,
evaluation and selection of new green manure crops; crop rotations,
including winter or summer green manure crops; collection of meteorological
information for agricultural research and to forecast extreme weather
conditions; development, testing, jointly with the Federal University of
Santa Catarina (UFSC), and introduction of machinery and equipment for soil
conservation practices on small-scale farms; and the introduction of exotic
forestry species (eucalypt and pine) or the reestablishment of native
species (Araucaria, Ocotea, Ilex paraguaiensis) in eroded areas. The
project would finance: (a) expansion of the EMPASC Soil Laboratory in
Chapezo and of research station infrastructure in Ituporanga and Urusanga;
(b) construction of a seed processing unit in Urusanga; (c) establishment
of an additional four meteorological stations and re-equipping of five
existing stations; (d) 89 research trials; and (e) annual production of up
to 36 tons of basic seeds for recommended winter and summer green manure
crops. This would mean financing: civil works; laboratory, meteorological
and seed processing equipment; furniture; and recurrent costs for
materials, operation and maintenance of 9 vehicles and an additional 16
researchers including a coordinator, 9 mid-level technicians and 27 machine
operators and field workers.



ANNEX 1
- 26 -                        Page 3
6.       The expansion of the soil laboratory in Chapeco is required to
increase the capability of undertaking soil analyses; at present only 15Z
of the state's farmers use soil testing; with the project, this percentage
is expected to increase.  The seed processing urit to be constructed in
Urusanga is to be used mainly for basic seeds for green manure crops.  The
establishment of an additional four meteorological stations and the re-
equipping of the five existing stations would be related to the adequate
coverage of meteorological data for the nine major river basins. The 89
research trials would be distributed as follows: 47 on green manure crops,
land preparation and crop rotation, changes in physical and biological soil
properties under different cropping systems (especially those used on
small-scale farms); 21 on agro-meteorology; 13 on small-farm mechanization;
and 8 on forestry development.
7.       The implementation of this component would be EMPASC's
responsibility. Created in 1975. EMPASC is accountable for most
productivity gains achieved in the late 1970s and 1980s by the Catarinense
farmers on export crops such as soybeans and food crops such as maize,
wheat, onion and garlic. The institute currently counts a total staff of
778 (282 researchers, and 496 technicians and support staff) distributed
among 8 research stations and 14 laboratories (Map IBRD 21644). The
additional staff to be financed under the project would increase and speed
up the institution's current research program on land management matters.
The institution's headquarters would plan the major research activities but
would delegate regional planning to the 8 major research stations. These
would in turn implement research through field stations often using
farmers' fields. Results would be published and diffused through EMATER-SC
and private extensionists staff from cooperatives and agro-industries as
well as from the private agricultural planning enterprises. Under the
Training Component (see Annex 2) research staff would receive substantial
training.
Land Use Mapping. Planning and Monitoring
8.       A land use monitoring system would be developed by EMPASC's
Central Unit for Surveying, Mapping and Monitoring to be established in
EMPASC's headquarters in Florianopolis. Its purpose would be to collect
data on soil, vegetative cover and climate, store and process the data and,
finally, to monitor the use of land in the project microcatchments. The
training of some of the professionals to be assigned to the Unit is already
underway. The project would finance: (a) civil works (340 m2) for the
Center; (b) office equipment and furniture; (c) imported data processing
equipment and software; (d) recurrent costs for a Coordinator and an
additional 15 professionals, and 9 digitizers, draftsmen and support staff;
and (e) 12 man-months of international consultancy to assist EMPASC in
setting up the Unit, reviewing the methodology, and monitoring staff
training provided for under the Training Component (see Annex 2).
9.       The Central Unit would work closely with the Remote Sensing Joint
Laboratory of Santa Catarina 1T4ARS/SC) created in 1988, the Federal
University of Santa Catarina (UFSC) and the Space Research Institute



ANNEX 1
- 27 -                         Page 4
(INPE). It would be responsible for data collection from field
technicians, belonging usually to EMATER-SC, as well as occasional data
collected from remote sensing. Data collection on soils, would be done in
two stages; at first, a survey of physical, chemical and morpholcgical soil
characteristics would be done to generate the potential land use maps for
the 520 project microcatchrnents. Then. semi-detailed soil surveys,
followtng the National Service for Soil Conservation and Survey's
methodology, would be drafted concentrating from Year 6 onwards on 72
priority microcatchments. Data collection on vegetative cover would be
especially useful for the forestry subsector given that the state does not
possess up-to-date knowledge on the present forest cover. Basic climate
maps at a scale of 1:250,000 would be drafted to provide information on
temperature, rainfall, humidity, frosts and monthly water balance. The
data would then be processed to produce new thematic maps (at a scale of
1:50,000) covering topics such as topography, vegetative cover, soil
fertility, soil erosion susceptibility, soil potential and actual use. The
monitoring of land use on the 96 priority microcatchments (72 mentioned
above, plus 24 microcatchments for which data is already available) is
expected to concentrate on: actual soil use, erosion susceptibility and
vegetative cover.
Rural Extension
10.      EMATER-SC has started providing, under the state microcatchment
pilot program, extension services in land management and soil conservation
for some 700 farmers in 17 microcatchments (located in 17 municipalities)
that cover about 16,900 ha. Under the proposed project, extension for land
management and soil conservation would be provided to some 80,900 farmers
in 520 microcatchments (excluding the 17 that have already been worked
upon) covering 1,855,000 ha (252 of the state farmland). The project would
finance: (a) complementary field and office equipment and furniture; and
(b) recurrent costs for a coordinator and for up to 161 incremental senior
extension officers and subject matter specialists, and for up to 49
incremental support staff, including operation and maintenance for up to
162 vehicles.
11.      Technical assistance would be provided from four sources:  EHATER-
SC's municipal extension officers and private extensionists belonging to
producer cooperatives, agro-industry associations (SINDIFUMO and
SINDICARNE), and working for private agricultural planning enterprises.
EMATER-SC's senior extension officers assigned to the project would be
responsible for the initial formation of the microcatchment association of
farmers, elaborating jointly with such associations a land management and
soil conservation plan for each microcatchment, and giving assistance to
farmer groups, and, on occasion, to individual farmers. In addition, the
private extensionists would provide follow-up technical assistance to their
farmer groups and/or individual farmers.
12.      A senior EMATER-SC extension office at the municipal level would
work closely with the farmer association leaders and the related
Microcatcbment Municipal Commission (CMMH). In addition, one subject
matter specialist would be assigned to 13 of EMATER-SC regional offices



ANNEX 1
- 28 -                         Page 5
operating in the project area. Each new microcatchment association would
get full assistance from EMATER-SC during the first two years and follow-up
assistance fromi both public and private extensionists during the following
two years. Initially, EMATER-SC would provide its full assistance at the
farmers-te-extensionist average ratio of 120:1; however, this would be
increased to 150:1 from project Year 3 or.. About 58,200 farmers woutld
receive technical assistance from EMATER-SC. An additional 22,700 farmers
would receive assistance from extension staff belonging to the 35 producer
cooperatives, the two agro-industry associations and the private
agricultural planning enterprises. Today, some 95 cooperative extension
agents, 150 agro-industry extensionists and field monitors, and 40 private
agriculturalists and agriculture technicians are operating as private
extensionists in the project area. Based on the current farmers-to-private
extensionist average ratio of 80:1, up to 108 of such private extensionists
would annually assist EMATER-SC in the implementation of the project. A
Coordinating Committee with representative from EMATER-SC, the State's
Organization of Cooperatives (OCESC), the major agro-industry associations
(SINDIFUMO and SINDICARNE) and the State's Association of Agricultural
Planning Enterprises (ABEPA-SC) would be created under the project to agree
on annual work plans at state, regional and municipal levels. Under the
Training Component (see Annex 2), all extension staff (both public and
private) would receive substantial training.
Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and
Pollution Control Works
13.      Objectives.  The Soil Conservation (SC) Fund (PROSOLO) has been
designed to achieve four purposes: (i) encourage farmers to make an early
start in the application of modern land management technology; (ii) improve
the quality of river water that is often the only source of potable water
for rural towns; (iii) consolidate under one source of financing and adjust
the criter'a and limits of the state-run incentive programs for soil
conservation initiated in 1987 in 17 microcatchments; and (iv) over the
project implementation period, gradually reduce the amount of subsidies
provided by the state for soil conservation. The amount of grant provided
under the SC Fund for different subprojects would vary with the following
factors: (i) the farming system being used, in combination with the farm
size and the average gross value of production; (ii) the year, during
project implementation when the subproject is begun; and (iii) the type of
subproject being financed. In addition, farmers would have to comply with
grant ceilings beyond which they would not be eligible for further
assistance from the SC Fund. All eligibility criteria, grant limits and
absolute ceilings, as well as procedures and models for processing
documents, would be detailed in an Operational Manual to be prepared by
SAAI and to be agreed with the Bank, to guide and assist EMATER-SC
extension agents in monitoring the use of the SC Fund.
14.      Farming Systems.  For purposes of the SC Fund, three farming
systems have been identified:  System A (with a low percentage of the total
number of farms) typifies hilly farmland where the gradient is very steep
and labor is the main source of power; System B (that covers the vast
majority of farmland under the project area) characterizes farms located on



ANNEX 1
- 29 -                        Page 6
milder slopes where animal traction is usually the main source of power
although in some areas small hand tractors are used, especially for the
cultivation of onion and tobacco; System C (of which there is little
representation under the project area) typifies slightly undulated farmland
with farmers that use hign levels of -echnology and capital as we'l as
tractors as the main source of power.
15.      Eligibility Criteria.  All small and medium-scale farmers (see
criteria in the following table) that are within the project area and
possess a land management plan for an individual farm that has been
approved by the Microcatchment Municipal Commission (CMMH) would be
eligible. Farmers' groups would also be eligible for collectively owned
subprojects. In this case, the average gross value of production would be
estimated for the group. Large-scale farmers would be allowed to belong to
the group as long as the average gross value of production for the group
(including the large-scale farmers) falls within the limits established for
small and medium-scale farmers.
_______________________________________________--  _______________________
Small and Medium-Sized Farms      Large-Sized Farms
Maximum
Maximum       Gross         Minimum
Farm       Value of         Farm       Minimum
Farming Systems       Size    Production (GVP)l   Size         GVP
Regular Farms (B and C)     100        6,000           101         6,001
Mixed Farms (B or C)2
- with poultry            100       12,000           101       12,001
- with piggery            100       15,000           101       15,001
Cattle Farms                200        6,000           201        6,001
16.      Phasing Out of the Incentive Proaram.  To encourage early adoption
of soil conservation and pollution control techniques, and to gradually
reduce the overall level of the subsidy, as microcatchments with a lower
priority enter the program, and as the benefits of the program become more
visible to farmers, the percentages of the grant would be higher during the
initial years of project implementation and would then gradually decline.
17.      Types of Subprojects.  Subprojects to be financed out of the SC
Fund of about US$6.8 million baseline cost would be either investments
collectively undertaken by a group of farmers, or investments undertaken on
an individual farm. Even in these latter cases the investments would often
be implemented collectively. Seven types of subprojects would be
1/ expressed in MVR (Maior Valor de Referencia), an index currently worth
about US$18.
2/ the enterprise within the farm that produces the most GVP will
determine the classification of the whole farm.



ANNEX 1
-30-                           Page 7
financially assisted: (i) three, for farmer groups--purchase of specific
farm equipment to undertake various recommended land management practices
(lime spreader, deep ripper, manure spreader, knife roller, etc.),
construction of agro-chemical mixing points and construction of Loxic waste
disposal pits, both to avoid pollution of streams and rivers; and (ii)
four, for individual farmers--collective undertaking of land management
practices in farming system B (such as contour farming, vegetative contour
barriers, stonewalls, bunding and terracing), construction of fermentation
tanks for animal waste (mainly for pig farms), purchase of improved seeds
for green manure crops, and purchase of inputs for small-scale commercial
reforestation (eucalypt and pine trees).
18.      Grant Limits.  Grants would only be conceded during the first two
years the extension service worked in a microcatchment area, starting from
the time the consolidated State Microcatchment Plan for that year is
approved by the CEMH. Each beneficiary would be limited as to the total
grant amount he could receive from the SC Fund. The limit per beneficiary
would also apply to the beneficiary's share of any collectively owned
subproject. This limit has been established as:
US$350 for project implementation years 1, 2 and 3
US$300 for project implementation years 4 and 5
US$150 for project implementation years 6 and 7
In the cases where a fermentation tank for animal waste would be the main
subproject being financed under the Fund, the individual limit for Years 1,
2 and 3 would be increased to US$430.
19.      For collectively owned subprojects (US$1.3 million base cost) cost
ceilings per subproject would be established; the SC Fund would finance a
declining (over the different project years) percentage of the subproject.
This is shown in the following table:



ANNEX 1
-31-                                  Page 8
Size       Cost
Rang.     Cetilng          Year of Projot       U of the Cost
of         por         Implementation during  of the Subproject
Former   Subpro*ect      uhieh the Subproj*tt   to be Finasced by
GOrip       UI  .__.                                 the IC Fund
a L  prea.r (M)             16-29       742            )1lt, 2nd, 8rd             so
- Deep Ripper (U)            10-26       S19            )
- Dung Spreder (U)           16-25      8750            )4th, 5th                  40
- Maize Harvester (U)        10-15      87W             )
- Knlfo Rollor (AT)          0S-1B       195            >6th, 7th                  20
- Woeder/f rtliizer (AT)     02-65       191            1
b) Asro-Chemlcal Mllins Points  1s-$8        887            )lot, 2rd, 3rd             76
}4th, 5th                  5
e) Toxic Waste Dispoal Pito    is-so         807           )}th, 7th                   ao
- - -   - -   - -   ~- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ------- -     --  - - - - - - -     
(U) a mechanized
(AT) * animal traction
20.       For individually owned subproiects (US$5.5 million base cost) cost
ceilings per subproject have also been established. The SC Fund would
finance declining percentages over time. Grant limits per beneficiary and
per subproject are also shown as a guide in the following table:
__       _    _    __       _    _    _          ________________-_-__-- -_-- - ---________---_-_--________________
Year of Project      I of the Total Cost       4rant
Unit    Implemntation during  of the Subproject to        Limits
Valu.   which the SubproJect      be Financed by           per
Subproject          Unit  (USII)        la begun              the SC Fund             enefitelary
a) Soil Conervation In                           )lot, 2nd, Srd              80                  es
Forming System B          ha    81.2          >4th, 5th                   20                  so
(for up to 10 ha)                             >6th, 7th                   10                 aS
b) Animal Waste                                  )let, 2nd, 3rd              60                 816
Fermentatiog Tank       3S uS  g20S           >4th, 5th                   40                 25W
(for a 8o m pit)                              >6th, 7th                   20                 12S
c) Improved Seeds for                            )lnt, 2nd, Jrd             166                 10l
Green Manure Crops        ton   8264          >4th                        75                  75
(for up to 4 ha)                              }5th                        so                 56
>6th                        25                  25
>7th                         0                   6
d) Inputs for                                    }2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th         60                 120
Commercial                ha    120.8         >6th, 7th                    0                   0
Reforestation                                 I
(for up to 2 h) 
                ----    ------    -----             ----------------------------------- ---- -
21.        In the case of commercial reforestation disbursements would not be
made until a technical appraisal had been made at least 180 days after
planting. The full grant (equivalent to 501 of inputs other than labor)
would apply when at least 901 of the seedlings were perceived to have
3/ excluding farm labor.
4/ average market price for various types of green manure seeds.



ANNEX 1
- 32 -                         Page 9
taken; 802 of the full grant would accrue if at least 80? but not more than
9O0 of the seedlings had taken; and 70? of the grant would accrue if at
least 702, but not more than 80?, of the seedlings had taken.
22.      SC Fund Monitoring (US$.14 million base cost).  The AU would
administer the SC Fund through a specialized financing ttnit wit1tn SAAI
already responsible for the monitoring of the compensation fund for tural
credit (FUNDEPROR) in liaison with the State Bank (BESC). Therefore, the
project would also finance: additional office equipment, and recurrent
costs for up to 5 additional administrative staff in the Unit, including
operation and maintenance cost for one vehicle.
Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads
23.      This component would include small-scale roadworks along a low-
traffic network of about 14,000 km of gravelled or earth-surfaced rural
roads (4 to 6m wide) on public land or farm roads (with attached public
right of use) where maintenance is the responsibility of the
municipalities. The various types of erosion control works which would be
an integral part of the microcatchment management plans, monitored and
supervised by the State Road Construction and Maintenance Agency (DER-SC),
are outlined in the following paragraphs. Contracts would generally be of
a small size (about US$25,000) and scattered. Wherever possible, they
would be grouped together in lots of about US$150,000.
24.      Improvement of Running Surface (US$2.9 million base cost).  The
work would consist mostly of sub-grade reshaping combined, in some
sections, with regravelling. On these selected sections, especially on the
steepest slopes, a bed of about 10 cm of gravel would be added and
compacted. Following the results of a sample survey carried out in 12
microcatchments already attended by DER-SC, an estimated 3,900 km would
have the sub-grade reshaped at an estimated cost of US$205 per km. In
addition, 975 km of this total would be regravelled at an additional cost
of US$2,135 per km.
25.      Intersections with Farm Road and Terrace Networks (US$5.8 million
base cost). The intersections of municipal roads with farm roads and their
junctions with field terraces (mostly in the Chapeco/Irani/Antas river
basin) are potentially highly erodible locations. The construction of
protective earth bunds at a junction with a farm road to direct water
runoff back onto the adjacent fields would be required at the unit cost of
US$203. On the basis of an average of 2.5 intersections per km of road,
these works would amount to US$5.075 million. For the junctions of field
terraces with the municipal roads, pipe culverts would be constructed at
the average unit cost of US$4,750 per km; in these areas about 156 km of
road would require such works.
26.      Control of Surface Runoff (US$5.3 million base cost).  Various
other types of erosion control works would be carried out along the network
of municipal roads. Based on the sample survey referred to in para. 23,
these works would include: pipe culverts (3 per km at the average cost of
US$185 per unit), flood control tanks on road sides (2.25 per km, on



ANNEX 1
- 33 -                             Page 10
average, at the unit cost of US$145), and miscellaneous works (such as
divergent ditches, ditch water brakes, creek derivation and grass planting)
amounting to an average cost of US$483 per km.
27.      Eni rnS5g_ALtS,"pervision (US$.9 million base cost).  DER-SC
would be responsible for the execution of the component. With a total
staff of 3,510, it maintains 10 supervision offices and 22 field offices
and is financing, through the State Fund for Road Assistance (FEAR),
fourteen mechanized brigades to help the municipaiities carry out their
maintenance responsibility for municipal roads. A Coordinating Unit,
comprising a Coordinator assisted by two road engineers would be
established within DER-SC to monitor the execution of the project.
Simualtaneously, up to 124 road engineers, technicians and equipment
operators would receive training in erosion control spot-improvement and
low-cost maintenance under the Training Component(see Annex 2). Guidelines
for Erosion Control Roadworks, both on technical and contractual matters,
would be prepared for the use by field office staff involved in the
implementation of the component. These guidelines would include: (i) the
methodology for a preliminary municipal road inventory; (ii) technical
specifications per roadwork item, measurement procedureb and average unit
costs, and a set of typical drawings for drainage; (iii) a set of bidding
documents and a model of a contract for small contractors; and (iv) a model
of a convenio to be entered into between SET-SC and each municipality,
prior to the start of any project-financed roadworks in the municipality,
for the maintenance of the improved road sections. Therefore, the project
would also finance recurrent costs for the Coordinating Unit, simple
engineering, and supervision costs for roadworks to be performed on about
3,900 km of the existing municipal road network.
Forestry Development and Natural Resource Protection
28.      This component has three objectives:  (i) develop both
conservation and commercial forestry in microcatchments to prevent soil
erosion and to take pressure off the remaining native forest; (ii) improve
and enforce the environmental law for soil conservation, land use and water
pollution control; and (ii) protect and manage three state parks and
biological reserves, including reclaiming land ownership for the state.
29.      Conservation and Commercial Forestry Subcomponent (US$2.3 million
base cost). The proposed forestry development subcomponent has been
designed as a transitory step to help the State of Santa Catarina overcome
the technical and iinancial constraints that are hampering CIDASC's ongoing
small-scale commercial reforestation program. Originally, the state had
envisaged a far more ambitious reforestation program together with the
neighboring States of Parana and Rio Grande do Sul that was to have been
based on recent federal legislation (Regulation No. 242 of 8/17/88 enacted
by the Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development, IBDF). This
legislation binds forest industries to either plant six new trees per every
cubic meter of marketed forest product, or pay IDDF a tax. The tax amount
so collected was proposed to finance a Reforestation Fund in each of the
three states. However, IBDF has since been merged into the new Brazilian



ANNEX 1
34 -                          Page 11
Institute for the Environment and Renewable Resources (IBAMA) and
negotiations between the states and the new institution are not expected to
be resumed in the near future.
30.      As a trarnsitory step the project would assist CIDASC improve the
production of commercial seedlings. Today, with the exception of the large
reforestatior. programs undertaken by timber, paper and charcoal industties,
most seedlings are produced in some 150 nurseries that are either directly
operated by CIDASC or contracted to municipalities or private farmers.
CIDASC currently produces seedlings for six to eight thousand hectares per
year; these are sold to farmers at subsidized prices and without proper
planting control. Under the project, CIDASC would help install some 130
private nurseries at the microcatchment level. Planting material for
commercial (exotic species) and conservation (native species) reforestation
would be sold by the nurseries at market pric's to farmers and CIDASC,
respectively. CIDASC would provide farmers that are candidates for
conservation forestry with the planting material (US$78/ha), and the SC
Fund would reimburse farmers that are candidates for commercial forestry
with 502 of the cost of inputs (US$60/ha) excluding labor. However, a
farmer's commitment to provide farm labor for commercial or conservation
planting and maintenance would be tied, whenever possible, to the execution
of his farm land management plan.
31.      This subcomponent would aim at producing about 14.6 million
seedlings of native species (such as Araucaria, Mimosa Scabrella, Ocotea)
for conservation planting of about 12,100 ha of private or municipal land
located in microcatchments; and about 81.6 million seedlings of eucalypt
and pine species for the planting of 40,800 ha of farmland (for timber,
housing poles and fuelwood). It would finance: (a) nursery equipment for
the first 70 additional nurseries which would be recovered with full
monetary correction by CIDASC through contractual arrangements over a
twelve-month repayment period; (b) cost of planting material for the
conservation planting of 12,100 ha; and (c) recurrent costs for a
coordinator assisted by an additional 13 forest nursery technicians and 2
administrative staff, including operation and maintenance costs for up to
13 vehicles. The incentive program for the commercial planting of 40,800
ha over the first five years has been included under the SC Fund (para.
20). In addition, substantial training for forest nursery technicians
would be provided under the Training Component (see Annex 2).
32.      Improvement and Enforcement of Environmental State Laws
Subcomponent (US$2.6 million base cost). The State Foundation for the
Protection of Technology and the Environment (FATMA), created in 1975, is
responsible to the Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment
(SEDUHA) for the enforcement of the Environmental State Law (No. 5793 of
10/15/80, regulated by Decree No. 14250 of 06/05/81) through 8 regional
offices and 12 advanced control posts. In the past, financial constraints
and a legislation more focussed on mining and industrial pollution,
prevented it from tackling rural issues such as the depletion of the native
forest, improper land use, soil conservation and the pollution of streams
and water sources.



ANNEX 1
- 35 -                         Page 12
33.      The purpose of the subcomponent would be to: (i) complement and
improve (before negotiations) environmental legislation concerning soil
conservation and rural pollution; and (ii) monitor water pollution and soil
erosion in the 520 project microcatchments. A coordinator would be
appointed by FATMA to execute the subcomponent with an existing team of 24
technicians and 8 support staff.
34.      Environmental legislation would be improved taking into account
the detailed legislation enacted in the neighboring State of Parana (Law
for Natural Resource Protection No. 8014 of 12/14184, regulated by Decree
No. 6120/85). To monitor water and soil erosion the project would finance:
testing equipment, periodic water sampling (at three points per
microcatchment collected twice over a three year period), water analyses
(two per year and per point of collection) to be carried out by the
existing network of laboratories, periodic soil erosion control (three
observation points per microcatchment) and operating and maintenance costs
for up to 8 vehicles. Under the Training Component (see Annex 2) FATHA
technicians will receive training in environmental legislation and water
sample collection and analysis.
35.      Protection and Management of State Parks and Biological Reserves
Subcomponent (US$1.8 million base cost). Since 1975 five state parks and
biological reserves have been created by a decree. Of these, only three
(Serra do Tabuleiro Park, Serra Furada Park and the Biological Reserve of
Sassafras) have been submitted to some form of recovery of public land or
purchase of private land so that today the state, or FATMA, legally own
only a small portion of the reserved area. This abnormal situation results
from an out-of-date state land law and improper institutional arrangements.
Under the existing law (No. 5451 of 06/26/78, regulated by Decree No. 22607
of 06/29/84), the process of public land recovery (discriminacao das terras
devolutas) can only be initiated, on a case-by-case basis, by the State's
Attorney General through joint intervention with SAAI. The only state
institution that has specialized in land matters is a department within
SAAI, Department of Land and Agrarian Reform (COTERRA), that is deprived of
the usual legal rights of a Land Institute, understaffed and financially
constrained.
36.      The purpose of the subcomponent would be to:  (i) assist the State
Government in implementing, during the first three years, 8 high-priority
processes of "discrimination" of claims to some 89,000 ha in the area of
the two state parks of Serra do Tabuleiro and Serra Furada; (ii) protect
and manage the two parks as well as the Biological Reserve of Sassafras.
The land recovery processes would require the creation of eight
Discrimination Commissions, each to be chaired by a State Attorney and
staffed mainly with assistance from COTERRA. FATM&'s Superintendency for
Natural Resources (SUREN) would be responsible for this subcomponent.
37.      The project would finance:  (i) office equipment and operating
costs for eight land reclamation commissions; (ii) buildings and civil
works for the parks and the reserve including 4 offices, one auditorium, 6
sheds, one manager's house and 6 guard houses, a watch tower, fencing and
power lines; (iii) office and miscellaneous equipment and furniture; and



ANNEX 1
- 36 -                         Page 13
(iv) recurrent costs for an additional 14 FATMA managers and techniciars
and one administrative assistant, including operation and maintenance costs
for up to 6 vehicles.
D. Proiect Costs
See Tables 1.5 and 1.6.
E. Disbursements
See Tables 1.7 and 1.8.
F. Financing Plan
See Table 1.9.
G. Prolect Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule
See Table 1.10.



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Evolution of State GDP in Relation to Country GDP (1970-1988)
State Total GDP in            State Agricultural GDP in                         State GDP Per Capita
X of National CDP          X of National Agricultural GDP           (in 1980 CzS)      (in % of National Figure)
1970              2.7                               6.4                            52                       8B
1976              2.8                               6.0                             82                      96
1980              3.2                               6.8                            11a                     109
1985              3.8                               6.0                            128                     127
1988              8.7                               6.4                            188                     124
1987              3.8                               6.6                            138                     126
1968 (P)          3.8                               6.8                            134                     127
Source:  MMGE (1970 to 1985); SEPLANJ-SC (1986 to 1988)
(P) = Preliminary Data
I- -



LND MWS0OlT II PROJET
Eeolution of Land Tenure (1975-1968)
104975                                 1980           _9
No. of               Area             No. of                 Area                NL.. of              Area
Fra~~~~(101               s      -E         ifoo 1 Fus                                 W        ('000 1  )oz1 
1. Ownership Status
Land Owner                 169,414    82.0     6,343.6    92.2    171,486    79.3       6,771.6    90.6      179,349    76.2      6,490 4   8?.7
Renter                      10,002     4.8       151.4     2.2      12,815     8.9        256.6     3.4       16,235     6.9        346.3    4.7
Shaetcropper                10.279     8.0       130.9     1.9      13,282     6.2        165.7     2.2       16,961     7.2        19C1 9    2.6
Ocrupant                    16.810     8.2       281.4     3.7      18.,76     8.6        279.9     3.8       20,997     8.9       283.6    3.8
NoDnewr                              --          ---     --           -      -              --    ---          1,819      .      i  918     1.2
TOTAL                    206,S05   100.0     6,877.3   100.0    216.169   100.0       7,473.8   100.0      258,361   100.0      7,400.0  100.0
2. Fare Six
0 to 19 ha                 12S,124    60.6     1,111.2    16.2    1S4,667    62.3       1,201.3    16.1      1S6,062    66.4      1.336.0    WI.1
20 to 49 ha                 58,036    28.1     1,739.0    28.3     67,588    26.6       1,720.4    2S.0       56,259    23.9      1,672.4   22.6
50 to 99 ha                 14,693     7.1       979.7    14.2      14,257     6.6        953.4    12.8       13,3S87    8.7       894.4   12.1
100 to 999 ha               8,170     4.0      1.,86.0    28.9      8,886     4.1       2,246.1    30.0        8,90m     3.8     2,270.4   30.6
>1000 ha                      47S       .2     1,061.4    18.4        624       .8      1,352.5    18.1         S58       .2      1,226.8   16.6
No answer                       8    --           --      --          167       .1          --    -              187    --            --   --
TOTAL                    206,508   100.0     6,877.3   100.0    216,159   100.0      7,473.8    100.0      2S5,361   100.0      7,400.0  100.0
source: Flom  Conse (1975-88)



LDNS tlM~E  II PROJ=t
Cmmti,& E eolution of Crgg Yild-. Level of 4achaniation. Un. of Modern ,Inrut. and tieration of Rural Poeulation (197S-19C5)
1  AaricuItural Production and A.arao. Cro. Yilda.
Crooping Se6son                        1974/75_                               Ay. 1979/-190D/81                            Ay. 1984M5-1985/86                      Productiyity Rntioe
Prod.       lnrneatod       Yi,id           Prod.        plrneated        Yield          Prod.         ttarn.t*d         Yield      l9BO/      1965/       1985t
(ton)      Area('000 h*)   (kg/ha)          (ton)      Area ('000 ha)   (kg/be)          (ton)        Area ('000  h)    (kge/he)   1975       197S        1980
a) Annual Cropes:
I%i;e                  1,661.6        728.9           2.279        3,066.3       1,180.7           2,710        2,055.2           928.0        2,215         1.19        .97         .82
Soyb1,en                 270.9        263.8           1.026          683.5         502.2           1.361          530.9           401.3        1,23          1.33       1.29          .97
Wh.at                      2.1          3.2             634            8.8          10.7             628           90.0            83.7        1,170         1.27      1.79          1.41
sons,                     95.2        130.0             782          183.0         260.6             702          248.6           387.0          637           96       .87          .91
Ric-                     207 6        119 4           1,739          416.S         149.7           2.782          448 7            142.2       3.155         1.t60      1.81         1.13
Cc-wn"                   995.3         80.5        12.4 ton         1,1S5.0         68.5        16.6 ton        1,188.7            86.0           18.8 ton   1.34       1.11          .83
Potatoes                  62.9          9.2         6.8 ton          147 6          19.1         9.6 ton          147.4            17.1            8.6 ton   1.40       1.26          .91
Onion                     17.9          4.2           4,257          t27.'          14.6           8,747          148.4            15.6        9.534         2.05       2.24         1.09
Tomtoec                   11.0          1.0            11.1           38.2           1.3        29.4 ton           35.2              1.3          26.1 ton   2.62       2.85          .69
Tobacco                   06.5         77 0           1,252           113.9         68.9           1,653          154.5             92.9       1,707         1.32       1.36         1.03
Carlic                     n.a-         n.            n.a.             7.3           1.9           3,839           19.2             3.0        5,300        n.av.      n.aV.         1.38
b) Perennial. Seam-prsnnial Crops:
Cragp                      n.av.        n.a.          n.0n.           60.1           5.2          11,555           72.0             5.6       &2,532       n.V.        n. *.         1.08
Sugar Can*               802.1         16.4        S0.6 ton         1,086.6         20.4        53.4 ton        1,161.1            22.9           50.6 ton   1.74       1.65          .95
anan"** (bunches)         12.3         13.1             953           29.7          20.0           1,488           37.8            25.4        1,490         1.56       1.56          1.0
Apple ('000 fruit-)        n.*,.        n an.         n.an.          225.9           4.5            50.6            n.an.           n.*..          n.an.   na.n.       n an.         n.an
Orange ('000 fruits)     251.4          1 4           171.7          3t5.7           2.4           160.7         203.3              2.7           75.3        .94       .59           .47
Per ('000 fruite)          n.an.        n.an.         n.av.           15.7           0.2           108.2            n.av.           n.n.           n.S4.  na.n.        n.aV.        n.an.
00I
OQ-
ct-I-



LAND WAMMW It PRDJET
Cbmarativ& Eotlution of Crop Yi*ld. Lne. I of   h.ni.atien. Ua ot Ibdern        . and mia.tton of Rural Pomulation flA76-l
2. Mehanization
Year                                 1975                                      1060                                          1065                             T7r1OD Mo Retio
Far. Ara       Mo. Cty          Ratio        Farm Are      wo. oft           Ratio        he Area        No. of             Ratio      1960/    IMsS/          MS65/
mmO ha)      Trcors           TritOO ha   tOpO hal    Traorse              Tr/10hl        10ha)        Tracors           Tb-10 ha0mA
6877.3        15.41            0.22          7,369.5      3,106             .45           7,400.0        45.471            .61         2.0       2.6          1.4
S. 1lltju (in Constant CtS of 1e06 Per ha of farmland)
Year 1r75                                                                      1060                                          1065                                Co tMo Ret
Seds and        Aoro         Total           S  do  nd       Agro         Total           Seed  and         AarO        Total       10D/    106S/          lS0/
PlJnt;inaot  t     micala                    Planktnaq bt    chmial&i Pltnt;nat,                           KSi                       1         19ZhIS        m g
104.1        456.6          660.7         167.0           623.7          795. 7            n.ay.          n. V.         n.a'        1.42      n.DV.        nav.
4.  Miaratian ot Population                                                                                                                                              Vn;sten
Yos                                                                                                                                                     1MD/          1s85/    10S/
1070                               1060                                    1065                                  JI5Zf         1T
Urtan                              1,246.043                         2.1"4.238                               2.797,2S2                                  72            124       3D.
Pural                              1 ,6s.691                          1,478.69S                              1.417,719                                  (11)          (14)     (4)
Total                              2.901.734                         3.627.933                               4,214,971                                  25            45        16
01
l*%WN



BRAIL
LAC NMAGBe4T I1 PROJECT
Solafted MIcrocatch_nt Dst,ibutiop  por Ri*, Basin of Sub-Basin
Criteria for Sal;teon
RIVE BASIN
OR SUB-BASIN                           ZMMea11CN                                         PR0JST AREA                                          RtVER eASIN SELQ.TIOk CtT9IA1 NO RPAWItC
Total                             No. of          Rolativ o Iportance   Degree of         Dogr"e of        Dcegree of
No.    Rin,o  N1.            NO                                No  of    Area      NO. of    "D. Of        SolIcted         in Sector Econoey     Eroob, lity   Fosgat Clar;ng       Pollutien
iunicip.   (lK2)  Nicrocatch. Nunicip.    Nicrocatch. 7         (10 to 90)           (9 to 81)       (8 to 72)         (6 to 54)        Totel
I   OWAPECO/IM4I/AWTAS       306       Colonis do                 38     17.026      412          36          184     45            56                  68            72                  38            234
Goet* Caterinone.
2    AARANUAlI1AWrTUBA       301-302   Colonsi do Sul             18      4,845       81           9           38      44           70                  87            60                  36            222
Litoral Sub Cat.
3    rTAJAI-ACU              296       Coloisal do Alto Itajel   42      18.100      349          31          112      32           70                  66            40                  41            227
295       Colonisl Itejal doeNortI
294       Colons .1 do e umonso
4    JACL5TINA/PEIXE         30S        Colonisl do               28      8.183      200          25           60      30           38                  48            36                  42            164
Rio do Polio
S    TU8ARADJ/DL             290-300   Litoral de Lagune          19      6,070      172          12           40      23           52                  32            60                  10            159
Curbonife's
6    TIAUAS/DA MAW          297-298   Colonial Serans            22      S,786      137          10          29       20           SO                  28            32                  19            129
Cata uinane a
Florianopol is
7    QMATA0/ITAPOCU          292-293   Colonial do                 9      6,134       61           5           12      20           56                  27            20                  22            128
J.oinvill*. Liboral
do Itjaii
6    NlWt/CANDINHhS          307       Plan*lto de                13     1,060       110           7           20     I            36                  42             16                 30            22
Canoi nubse
9   CANDOAS/PELOTAS          303-304  C _qpo de Lag"              16     22.791      161           9          20       17           22                  38            24                  24            108
C_apo. de Curitibano.
TOTAL             190     0598,    1,683           143        820       31           --                  --            -                   --             -
1/ Th. follo.sng four cs.toris or*e sated as follrao
a) R*letie isgportance of tsh Ring  Baain in the Sector Economy (population density. 4 to 36; annual cropp.ng easg, 4 to 36; and irrigated are** 2 to 18). Total 10 to 90
b) Degre, of Erodibility (soil uaceptibility to erosion, 4 to S6; cropped oes not protected dunin4 *inter, 2 to 18; croppad orea not protected during sum_r, I to 0, an*n l rainffall I  to 9;    . 
and nu br of tmctorm/lO1Oba, I to 9)   Total  9 to 81.
c) Daopos  of Forost Cl,aring (rolating *rao  of foret, 4 to 36; and acting poulstion/1000 le, 4 to 36)  Toal: 8 to 72                                                                                ,   _
d) Degree of Pollution  tNo Ir of pige, 2 to 18; alauehtre        caWcity. 2 to 1e; paper and Ce llulose induaesy, 1 to 9; *nd sming, I to 9). Total: 6 to 54.



BRAZIL
LAND MIANAGDEEN II PROJECT
Annual Cost Phasing of Prolect Activities
totals Including Corit tngwie4ts                                         Totals Including Cotil ngwfcoes
LUczsI 0001                                                               (usS '0001 
89/90   90/91   91/92    92(93    93/94    94/95    95/96   bolat        89/90   90/91   91/92    92/93    93/94    94/9        95/96   lotat110
A1  LOAPIIV11  RifAm86CI                                     8852   680 0    6665s    6959    7265    7585   7918B  Is.1045    6 85 2   660 0    6665S   6959    726 5    71585   791 6  5.2045s
ItAN sw,StNAPPvING Also NtMIltoNG                            636 5   387 5    404 6    422 4    441 0    460 4   509 2  3.281 5    656 5   367 5    404 6    422 4    441 0    460 4   509 2  '.281 5
c  Nu 6 1681IMII5I1I                                       2.092 6 2.320 6  2.664 1 2.669 8  2.996 I  3.054 2 1.390 8 I?.40  2  2.092 6 2.320 6  2.664 I 2.869 6  2.996 I 3.054 2 1. 390S 12.408 2
o  soil C0N%-IIlVAIIIII  11161                               496 7 1. 555 4  1.962 4  2,376 0  1,797 5    51,6.,6   191 4  S.,        496 7 I.SSS 4  1.962 4  2.3760  I. 797 5    566 6   191 4  8.946 I
I  lEIslimI :tm61110  AlONG 611981 6040$s                   554 S 2,56 7   4. 232~ 6  4,41612  4.1M04  3. 28.   1.8642 4 21. I2.j    54 5 2.56? 7  4.'?.? 6  4. 418 9  4. I"94  3. 288 I 1. 842 4 21. 923 5
1I ORISIRY DIVIIOP NIN  S NIAtI6AL RISOIIRCI PItOkCIION   I 934 6 1. 116 5    971 5  1. 016 7  1. 184 9  1. 103 9   963 4  S. 291 5  1. . ~'C I 116 5    971 5  1. 016 7  1.184 9  1. 103 9   963 4  8.291 S
t  PROJItLI AIIIINISIIlAIIIJ6 IIMIIORINWG 861 IWAIIIAIION    604 2   455) I   475 I    666 7    5I? 6    540 6   75  7  4.018 2    804 2   455 1    475 I    666 7    SI? a    540 6   75  7 4.0ol 2
II TRAINING                                                1.117?1   550 9    602 3    297 4    369 4    242 6   143 5  3.343 3  1.1It71   550 9    602 3    297 4    369 4    24268   143 5  3.343. 3
total PRtO.icI COStS                                         8,341 4 9.653 6 11.999 2 12.763 8 12. 252 510.017 0 6,591 2 71,618 9  8, 341. 4 9, 653.  1,999. 2 12. 763 6 12.252 5 10, 017. 0 6.5S91 2 71. bl69
Nay 26. t969  14 22
01-



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Sumnary Account by Project Component
(NCz$ million)
tORtSIRY
ERDSION    DEVEtOPtENt 8       PROJECT                              Physical
(AND USE                    SOlt         CONtRO.        AttURAt      ADNINISTRATION                         CootingencIes
ADAPtlVt  MtAPPING A4D    RURAt    CONSERVA1tON  A4ONG RURAt    RESOttRCE        MONtO1RING lAND
REStARCH  MItORING    XITEfSIO"         FUND          ROADS       PROITECIIOtt     EVAtlUAION    tRAINING   lotal         S      otjnt
I  INVlSIMtNt  Costs
A  CIVII WORKS AtD fttilDINGS
I 8UtDtiNGS                                    66 7          40 7                   1. 176 0             -          590 6                                t,874 0   15 0   281 1
2  SOtl CONSERVATION WORKS                                                  -        1,044 5                                                              1.044 5   IS 0   156 7
3  RURAI ROAD WORKS                                                                               13,966 3                                               13.966 3   15.0 2.094 9
Sub total CIVtl MORES AND BUIJIDINGS              66 7          40 7                    2,220 5      t3, 966.3          S90 6                               16.884 8   1S 0 2.532 7
B  f QUtPrNtF  AND tOURNrttRf
I  tORltbtt CtlMPUtlING IQUIPtMtI                           324 9                                                                                          3249    50     162
?  OIlHtR fODlIPNftEt AND IliRNItIIRI         436 3          29 3       51t 6        t, 177 4          5 0           645 t             34 3      251 5   3.080 5    5 0   154 0                t
Sub Ilot ltilPtiMiNT ANI) IURNIIIIRI             436 3         354 2       51 6        1. 127 4          S 0           645 I              34 3     25t 5   3.405 4    5 0   170 3                P
C  l AND OIVII IIPItNt                                                                  3,486 5                        952 7                                4. 439 2    0 o     00               W
D  ItCHNICAl  ASSISTANCI
I tXPA4RIAt r.ONSUIIANIs                                                                                                                        264 0     264 0    5 0      137
2  lOCAI CONSUITANTS                                                                                                                              720        720    50        35
3  FfflotUSHIPS ANO ARROAD SttlOY tOURS                                                                                                          269 1      269,1    5 0    135
Sub total TICNICAEt ASSIStAtNct                                                                                                                     605 1      605 t    5 0    303
E  CORSES. SEMINARS AND fIfEl) IOURS                                                                                                              1.189 I   t.189 I    0 0       00
Total INtVESltNt  COSIS                             503 0          394 9      5S1 6        6.834 4      13. 971 3        2.188 4              34 3   2,045 7  26.523 6   tO 1  2,733 2
It  RfCttRRENI COSTS
A  SAlARIES AND RfINtIlS                      2.3S7 7       I 807 0   tl. 194 9          123 6         174 3         1.3t4 3          2.476 6              19.44S 4    0.0      00
8. IRAVlI AL1OWANCES                             94 0         188 2       753 7                         32 3         1, 5t3.             162. 7             2.743 9    0 0      00
C  OPlRA1TON AND IIAINIINAWCI                   126 fi        215 5    1,555 S            tt 9                         404 7             142 8              2.457 0    0 0      00
0. CONTRACIED SFRVICES                            5 9           5 9        54 5                        666 I         1.217 2            424 4      769 8   3.143 8    0 0       0 0
f  CONSUMPTION MAtlRIAL                       1. 117 4         45 2        14 3                                         89 9              2                 1t .268 9    0 0    00
lotal RlCURRftt COSIS                             3.701 t,      2.?61 8   13.572 9           1355          872 7         4.539 2           3.208 6     7698  29062 0    00           00        t
Total BASIItNE COStS                               4.204 6       2.656 7   14.124 5         6.969 9      14.844 0         6.727 6           3.242 9   2.815 5  55,585 6    4 92.7332 F2F
Physical Contiinenciea                             31 8          23 8        27 6          389 4       2.095 2            120 8              I 7      42 8   2.713 2    0 0       0 0         t 
Price Contongencies                               968 0         601 0    3.256 2         1.588 8       4.184 3        .1,443 1            773 6      4850  13, 300. 1    4 7   6240 0,    t.
total PROJtEC  COStS                               5,204 5       3.281 5   t1.408 2         8.948 t      21.123 5         8.291 5          4.018 2   3.343 3  71.618 9    4 7 3.3572 7 
Taves                                             44S1          2 26 9    1. 295           935 3       2.14t 9           803 6            270 4      299 1   6252 8    5 8   364 9
loreign Eechsnge                                  262 S         385 5       480 3        1.267 0       4.095 0           824 0             102 4     832 1   8.248 9    8. 7   721 2
"by 76. 1989  14 22



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.7
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank          Quarter        Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement            Balance
Fiscal Year       Ending        During Quarter           Amount          % Total           of Loans
1990       March 81, 1990        --                   --                --               --
June 80, 1990          2.2 1/               2.2 1/            7               80.8
1991       Sept. 8o, 1990         1.1                  8.8                               29.7
Dec. 81, 1990          1.2                  4.6                               28.6
March 81, 1991         1.a                  5.8                              27.2
June 80, 1991          1.8                  7.1              22              25.9
1992       Sept. 80, 191          1.3                  8.4                               24.6
Dec. 81, 1991          1.8                  9.7                               23.3
March 81, 1992         1.4                 11.1                              21.9
June 30, 1m            1.4                 12.5              8s              20.6
1998       Sept. 80, 1992         1.4                 18.9                               19.1
Dec. 31, 1992          1.8                 16.2                               17.8
March 81, 1993         1.8                 16.5                               16.6
June 80, 1998          1.8                 17.8              54              15.2
1994       Sept. 80, 19S9          1.2                19.0                               14.0
Dec. 31, 1998          1.1                 20.1                               12.9
March t1, 1994         1.1                 21.2                               11.8
June 80, 1994          1.1                 22.8              68              10.7
1995       Sept. 80, 1994         1.1                 28.4                                9.6
Dec. 31, 1994          1.0                 24.4                                8.6
March 81, 1995         1.0                 25.4                                7.6
June 80, 1995          1.0                 28.4              80               6.6
1996       Sept. 80, 1996         1.0                 27.4                                6.6
Dec. 81, 1996          1.0                 28.4                                4.8
March 81, 1996           .9                29.8                                3.7
June 80, 1996           .8                 80.1              91               2.9
1997       Sept. 80, 1996           .7                80.8                                2.2
Dec. 81, 1996            .6                81.4                                1.6
March 81, 1997          .6                 32.0                                1.0
June 80, 1997           .6                 32.6              99                 .4
199        Sept. 80, 1997           .4               38.0              100               --
1/  Initial deposit of uS82.16 million Into the Special Accounts (CESA and FESA).



-45                     ANNEX I
Table 1.8
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
------------------------------------------------------------------__-------
TOTAL
CATEGORY          ITEM AND I OF EXPENDITURES                  AMOUNT
(Net of Taxes)                     (US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__----------
I      Adaptive Research
651 of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$1.0
million; 40? thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$1.5 million; and 15Z thereafter:          1.8
II      Land Use Planning and Monitoring
10OZ of Imported Electronic Equipment:                .3
501 of all other expenditures:                       1.2
III      Rural Extension
651 of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$3.3
million; 40? thereafter until aggregate
reaches US$5.1 million; and 15? thereafter:          5.8
IV      Incentive Program for Land Management,
Soil Conservation and Pollution Control
80 of expenditures:                                5.7
V      Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads
5OX of expenditures:                                8.5
VI      Forestry Development and Natural Resource
Protection
50X of expenditures:                                 3.4
VII      Project Administration Monitoring and Evaluation
65? of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$.8
million; 40? thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$1.2 million; and 15? thereafter:         1.3
VIII      Training
1001 of Foreign Consultancy and Overseas Training:    .6
501 of all other expenditurest                       1.1
IX      Unallocated                                          3.3
TOTAL                                               33.0



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.9
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Amounts to be Financed by
State Gov't     State Gov't
COMPON E NT                       +IBRD            only          Total
A.  Adaptive Research                   5.2               .3           5.5
B.  Land Use Mapping, Planning
and Monitoring                   3.3                .1          3.4
C.  Rural Extension (Public)           17.4              3.4          20.8
D.  Incentive Program for Land
Management, Soil Conservation
and Pollution Control            9.0              -             9.0
E.  Erosion Control Works along
Rural Roads                     21.1                           21.1
F.  Forestry Development and
Natural Resource Protection
- Commercial and Conservation
Forestry                         2.9                .1          3.0
- Environmental Law Enforcement   3.2                 .2          3.4
- State Parks and Biological
Reserves Protection and
Management                        2.2               .4          2.6
G. Project Administration,
Monitoring and Evaluation         4.0               .2          4.2
H.  Training                            3.3              -             3.3
T 0 T A L                          71.6 1/           4.7         76.3
1/ Including about US$6.3 million of taxes and duties not financed by
IBRD.



-47 -                                                        ANe
TabI a 1. 10
Pag9 1 of 4
ZILa
LAN) MANACEMFr Jr PROJECT
Proiect Phypical Targate and Implementation Schedule
Priojct/Com"onents                            enit      O     Yr. 1   Yr. 2   Yr       Yr. 4   Yr               Yr.        Totsl
(1989)                                                          Ineremnt.I
Proiect Area
-Microcatchaents attended:
Ne-                                       un       --      70      60      130      70     130      60       --        520
Cumulative                                un       17      87     147     277      847     477     537      537         -
Per Year                                  un       17      70     130      190     200     200     190       60        520
-Related Area;
Now                                ha x 1000       --   249.7   214.1  465.9   249.7   468.9   214.2         --    1855.5
Per Year                           ha x 1000     16.9  249.7  428.8  878.0   713.6   713.6   678.1   214.2    18S.5
Adaptive Reserch
-New Meteorological Station*                   un       19       4      --       --      --      -       -         -          4
-Metoorol. Stations re-equipped                un       --       5      --       --      __      __      __       __          S
-Soi I Laboratory expanded                     un       --       1      --       --      --      --      --       -           1
-Research Station expanded                     un       --       a      --       --      --      --      -        --          S
-Seed Processing Unit                          un       --       1      --       --      --      --      -- I
-Trials on forest husbandry                    un       11       1       2        1       1       1       1         1         8
-Trials on soil and crop nutrition             un       25       6       6        7       7       7       7        7         47
-Trials on mechanization                       un        3       1       2        2       2       2       2        2         1S
-Trials on agrometeorology                     Un        9       2       4       3        3       8       8        a         21
-Oreen anure basic seeds                      ton      5.5   13.4   24.8  8S.8    85.1   86.8    81.2    10.1    184.2
Land Use Massinna Plannina and Monitoring
-Date processing equipment                    set       --       1      --      --       --      --
-Climat;c Maps (1:250000)                     *i;      __      39      39      39       26      --      --       --        148
-Various Thematic Maps (1:50l 000)             MC       --      60      70      130     130     130      --       --       820
-Semi-detailed soil surveys                    MC     (24)      --      --       -       --      --      86       36         72
-Lend Use Monitoring                           IC     (24)      -       --       -               -        6   S 6            72
Rural Extension
-Total Farmers attended:
-New                                    un x 1000       --    10.8     9.7   20.2    10.5   20.8        9.7        -       80.9
-Cumulative                             un a 1000       --    10.5   20.2   40.4   50.9    71.2   80.9          80.9         --
-Per year                               un a 1000       --    10.5   20.2   29.9    30.7   30.8    29.9          9.7       80.9
1/ MC = Microcatchment



- 48 - 
Tabte 1.10
Pat* 2 of 4
Distribution at intensive as istance (2 years):
a) 9OATE-SC:
Farmr attended per y-ar            un   1000      -      7.    14.6   21.5   22.1   22.1   21.5          7.0      88.2
No. of Sr. Extensoniat  par teer          un       --     68        121    1      47    147    148        4         --
Ratio farmer-to-eatenaionist           ratio           120:1  120I 1   ItO:1  150:1  150:1  150:1   160:1           -
b) Cooperative (OCSC)
Farrmers attended per year         un a 1000      --    1.0    1.9    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.7            .9       7.5
No. of Eatenelonijto per year             un       -      12      24      aS      a5     as      84       11        98
Ratio Faraer-to-exteneionl-t           ratio       -    80:1   SO:1   60:1   so:i   60o1     01    50:1            --
c) SDQICARNE
Farmers attended per year          un   1000      --      .4      .7    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.1          .3       9.0
No of Extenaloniats per year              uan     --               9      14      18     1S      14        4        s8
Ratto FPrmer-to-eatenaionint           ratio      --   80:1   SO:1   SO:1   80:1   8Q0:1   80:1    80:1
d) SDWOlR
Faermer. attended per year         un x 1000      -      1.2    2.2    5.8    3.4    8.5    8.3          1.0       8.9
No of Exteneionin; per year               un       -      l5      28      41      43     48      41       18       112
Ratio Farmar-to-extentionist           ratio      -    80:I   80Q1   60:1   80:1       0:1 eo   :1    80:1         -
e) ABEPA-SC
Far_re attended per y-ar           un x 1000      -       .4      .6    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.8          .t       0.8
No of Extensioniato per year              un      --       5      10      15      is     1S      1i        a        41
Ratio Farmer-to-outaneioniet           ratio      -    801    SO:1    0: I   So:1   80t1 :      0:1    80:1         -
f) Total Private Sector (bec*d+*)
Farmers attended per year          un a 1000      --        8.   5.6    8.4    S.8    8.7    8.4         2.7      22.7
No of Exteionisto per year                an      -       37      71    105    108    106    105          34       284
SC Fundf
a) Collectively oaned subprojecte
-Lime epreader                             uan      --       4      62      87     91      91      87       80      482
-oep ripper                                 un      -       84      62      87     91      91      67       SO      482
-Nnure epreadere                            un      -       22      42     58      61      61      S8       18      820
-1ise Harvester                             un      --       4       a       9      9       9       9        4       so
-Narrower/Ferti I Iser spreaders            un              9ti98    1    252    267    267    252          84      1408
-Knife rol ler                              un      --    225    419    878    S11    61l    578           198      a215
-Agro-chesical mixing pointe                un      -       8S      88      94     98      98      U        82      520
-Toxic waste dispoal pit*                   un      -       u8      68      94     98      98      94       82      520
b) Individually oned eubproject
-Animal wate  Frermntation Tanks            un      -      260    518    717    757    757    717          2599 
-oreen Manure "eed                         ton      -   154.2  248.0  8S8.0  851.4  868.8 311.6   100.9   1842.4
-Soi I Conervation Works
(Syste- B)                                Ha        -  10.900  20S5O  26050  2955)  80600  27200    9860   1SOQO0
-Commercial Reforestation:                                        4
-Eucalyptus                               Ha       --      --   6812  S52    12U0   6812          --       -     8osst
-Pine                                     Ha       --            2104   1942   4045   2104        -        --    ;Q1f
Eroalon Control Alone Rural Roads
Microcatchmentn attended per year            un      --      1i      70    110    110    100        7S       40      S20
a) Improvement of running eurfwe:
-nub-grade rekhaping                        km      --    100    580    8S8    eso    740    6SO           8O      8900
-with regravelling                          km      --      80    130    205    205    190    140           75      975
b) Intersections with:
-Farm roa4d                                 un      --    290   1S50   2120   2120   1920   1440           760    10000
-Terr ceo                                   un      --      20    105    165    165    1S0    11i           60       780



-49 -                                                      af2
Tble 1 .10
Page 8 of 4
a) Surfweo Runoff Control:
-pip. culvert.                                un       --     850    1620    2540    20    2810    1730          910     12000
-flood control tanks                          un       --     260    1210    1910    1910    1780    1300        68       9000
Foreotry Develorment and Natural Resourco PRotection
a) Conercial and Conaervation Reforestation:
-Now private nuraeri.e  in operation (cum.)   un       --      70       6O     180     180     180     190       130       180
-Cossercial Reforetattion2
Area                                         Ho       --      -     8416    7768   16180    8416       -        -       40780
Seedlings                              un a 106       _     16.8    18.6   82.4   16.8         --      -         --      81.6
-Conservation Reforestation
Area                                         Ho       -       -     1578    1456   SOS4    1S78    8034       1456      12186
Seedl ing                              un a xo6       --     1.9      1.8     8.6     1.9     8.6     1.8       --       14.6
b) Enforcement of Environaental Lew:
-Eroeaon control points                       un       __     210      18O    390      210     890     1oO       --      l15o
-Periodic Water Sampling
Microcatchent, attended                      un       --      70      60      200     130    260      180      1So        960
Collection Points                            Uo       __     210       80     600     890     780     890      890       2940
An.lyoe                                      un       --     420     360    1200      780    156O     780      780      5888
c) Parke and Biological Reoerve.
-Land Recovery
Procos                                      un       --       2       4       2       --      --      --       --          8
Arwe                                         Ha       --   25925   44887   ;8442       --      --      --       -       88784
-Constructions                                         --    1268     217       --      --      --      --       --       1488
officee                                      un       --       8       1       -       -       -       --       --          4
Auditorium                                   un       --       1      --       --      --      --      --       --          I
Housing                                      un        _ _  7          --      --                                           7
Watch Tower                                  un       --       1      --       --      -       --      --       --          1
-Fencing                                       M       __    7858       --5 7865
-Power Line                         M                  --    8180      --       -       --      --      --        -      8150
Administration. Montoring and Evaluation
Evalustion (ex-anteo  mid-term and ex-post)   un        1                          I                              1         3
Tri  no
-Guidelines for DER-SC                         un        1      --      -       --       --      --      --       --          1
-Operational Manual for SC Fund                un        1      --      --      -        __      __      __                   I
-Technical Manuel                              un       __       1      --      --                                            I __  __  __  1
a) Orientation Training for Non farmers
4 to 8 day saeinars                          un       19       7      --      --       --      --      --       --   26(886)
b) Farmer Training
1 day field trips                            un       --     175    1SO      267      140     260     120       --1112(44480)
9 day courre                                 un       --       9       8      17        9      1T       8       -  68(20)
c) Training for Skilled Worker.
2 to S day coursoe                           un        2       7       7        6      --       2      --        2   26(848)
2/ Costed under the SC Fund
3/ Figures in brackets mean number of trainees or consultants



- 50 -                                                         EX
Tub l 1. 10
Page 4 of 4
d) Training for Project T chniclans
8 to lOt day courea                           un        7       Is       9       7        a       a       4         8  56(1220)
7 day atudy tours                             un        3        6       4       4       2        1                     2D(108)
2 diy eveluation *ainar                       un        -       --       a       I        a       1   S             1   12(618)
90 to in day  ady tour, abroad                un        a       4        1       4      __        2      --        --    14(26)
*) Conaultncy
Foreign                                  a-month       10        6       6      -       --       --      --        --     22(2)
National                                 a-.onth        4        6       8      -        - -         -             --     I8(3s



-51-                           ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
A. Institutional Aspects
State Level
1.       A Project Management Committee, chaired by the SAAI Secretary with
the Secretary of Planning and General Coordination as vice chairman and
including the Secretaries of Finance, Urban Development and Environment,
and Transport and Public Works, was created (State Decree No. 3611 dated
July 27, 1989) and would have overall responsibility for project policy,
planning, budgeting and institutional coordination. In addition, the
Microcatchment State Commission (CEMH) created in April 1988, chaired by
the SAAI Secretary, and consisting of representatives from EMATER-SC,
banks, cooperatives, agro-industry and farmer associations, would be
responsible for the final, approval of annual work plans resulting from the
microcatchment land management and soil conservation plans annually
presented by the Microcatchment Municipal Commissions (CMMHs) under the SC
Fund (PROSOLO).
2.       A project Administrative Unit (Secretaria Executiva) created
within SAAI (State Decree No. 3611 dated July 27, 1989) would be
responsible for: (a) reviewing and consolidating, prior to August 30 each
year, annual operational plans drafted by the executing agencies and
approved by the CEMH (Table 2.1); (b) supervising project performance and
advising the Management Committee on institutional or technical
difficulties; (c) monitoring progress, and preparing reimbursement
requests; and (d) administering, through the SAAI's specialized financing
unit, the SC Fund (PROSOLO) and the compensation fund for rural credit
(FUNDEPROR); and itself directly, the training component.
3.       To meet the project needs, the Administrative Unit (AU) would have
the following administrative structure (Chart 2.2). The Executive
Secretary as head of the Unit would be assisted by 9 regional coordinators
(one located in each river basin, preferably at EMATER-SC regional office);
at headquarters there would also be a Technical Manager, an Administration
and Finance Manager and a Training Manager.
Regional and Municipal Level
4.       At the regional level, the project would be implemented through
the existing EMATER-SC, CIDASC, DER-SC and FATMA Regional Offices and would
be coordinated and monitored in each river basin by the AU Regional



- 52 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
Coordinator. At the municipal level, coordination of project executing
entities (private, municipal and governmental) as well as the approval of
microcatchment land management plan and the processing of requests for
support under the SC Fund would be the responsibility of the CMHs with
technical assistance from the EMATER-SC municipal extensionist.
B. The Training Component
5.       The training component would be centrally coordinated and
administered by the AU within SMI to ensure that project strategy is
properly implemented by all executing agencies. The project would finance
four different items: consultancies, training equipment, bulletins and
publicity and training programs. Consultants, local (18 man-months) and
foreign (22 man-months), would be required to provide assistance on
training organization, land use mapping and monitoring, forest and natural
resource protection, and project administration. Training equipment would
be provided to EMATER-SC, EMPASC, DER-SC, CIDASC and FATMA and would
consist mostly of visual aid equipment, except in EMATER-SC's case where,
in addition, equipment to undertake field trials would also be included.
Bulletins and folders would also be provided for EMATER-SC, EMPASC, DER-SC
and CIDASC and, special radio and television publicity would be aired to
promote land management practices.
6.       Training programs would be geared towards four different clients:
(a) Orientation Training for Non-Farmers. Its purpose would be to
give an initial orientation on the project to rural leaders,
reporters, municipal authorities and state coordinators of the
involved agricultural agencies. The central theme of the course
would be land management; courses would vary in length from one to
five days.
(b)  Farmer TraininR.  Agricultural producers and rural leaders that
are to be introduced to land management techniques would visit
microcatchments that are already practicing such techniques
through one-day field trips organized by EMATER-SC. In addition,
leaders of microcatchment farmer associations would receive
training (through a nine-day course) in specific water and soil
conservation techniques.
(c) Training for Skilled Workers. Forest nursery workers and road
maintenance operators would receive in-service training as well as
training for skills up-grading by means of two to five-day
courses.
(d) Training for Project Technicians. Staff from all the involved
agencies would receive varied forms of training. Most of the
training would consist of specialized technical courses that would
involve all project technicians (public and private extensionists,
researchers, mapping and remote sensing specialists, road
engineers, foresters and environmentalists) and vary considerably
in duration (from three to 106 days) according to need. This



- 53 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 3
training would be complemented by seven-day study tours in the
microcatchments of the neighboring State of Parana and periodic
two-day evaluation seminars. Short-term (usually 90 days) study
tours abroad would also be financed mainly to expose project
executives and coordinators and EMPASC, EMATER-SC and CIDASC
technicians to work being done in other countries on remote-
sensing, land use mapping and monitoring, land management and soil
conservation, and reforestation issues.
7.       An overall training program has been designed.  This would be
updated through yearly training programs that would be drafted and
presented to the Bank for approval. In addition, the AU would have to give
its clearance before releasing project funds for training.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
8.       Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
provide accurate and timely information for project management and to allow
proper annual planning. The AU would receive monthly reports from
executing agencies on key physical and financial indicators. In addition,
a three-tier evaluation of the project (baseline, mid-term and ex-post
evaluation) would be the responsibility of CEPA. The Bank would be
provided with satisfactory Terms of Reference for each evaluation.



-54 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 2.1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
List of Executing and Collaborating ALencies
Project Activity                     Main Executing  Main Collaborating
Asencv               Agencies
-Adaptive Research                      EMPASC          UFSC
-Land Use Manping, Plannina and
Monitoring                             EMPASC           Consultants, EMATER-SC
UFSC, LARS-SC
-Rural Extension
-Microcatcbment Management Plans    EMATER-SC        Mun. Commissions (CMMHs)
-Extension in Land Management and   EMATER-SC        OCESC, SINDIFUMO,
Soil Conservation                                   SINDICARNE, ABEPA-SC
-Incentive Program for Land
Manaaement. Soil Conservation and
Pollution Control
-Selection of Individual and         Farmers and    EDATER-SC, Mun.
Collective Subprojects              Farmer Groups   Commission (CIMM)
-Financing of Subprojects            SAAI            Farmer Assnes., Groups,
Individuals
-Administration and Monitoring       SAAI            EMATER-SC
-Erosion Control Works Alona
Rural Roads
-Implementation and                  DER-SC          Private Contractors,
Supervision                                         Municipality
-Maintenance                         Municipality    DER-SC
-Forestry Development and Natural
Resource Protection
-Commercial and Conservation
Forestry Development                CIDASC          Private Nurseries
-Enforcement of Environmental Law   FATMA            EMATER-SC
-Protection of State Parks and       FATMA           State General
Biological Reserves                                 Attorneyship, COTERRA
-Proiect Administration. Monitorina
and Evaluation
-Administration and Monitoring       AUISAAI         EMATER-SC, CIDASC,DER-SC
FATMA Regional Offices
-Evaluation                          CEPA-SC
-Training                               AU/SAAI         ENPASC, EMATER-SC,
OCESC, SINDIFUMO,
SINDICARNE, ABEPA-SC,
DER-SC, FATMA, CIDASC,
Consultants



STATE CE!tSL LEL
| CooA=nctot ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ic |hir" sI s';- B.
W C STA;em,  8 C                       5    SA, SET
PA~~~~~mA. ~ ~   ~      | CW..SCtra |cn   .W                                            IR,clI                 cr~so
.mAsC K,  S'f c  AC 'Scr  ro   AarK fur
_              r             I.
MMCW M.r et- 
I~  II                                                       
LAW  teF                 M  IICATION a         SAPW&"R CtL            r     
StT   .S11     -  .  J-L                                                                                                                                      |#
.~~~~~~. - 
_ EPA  S  nD",   -gES, AEPA _ __ __    --_   _-----------                          ; t-on -l          ----1      ------iaeto,r-
T                                                  I I  J                          .
bU<CIPAL ANeD M  AI t    LEtV ELS .
r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oe                                                                                             - - - -__ -_
-T---------------------
-  -  -  -    Pr.*.et Fuoctiopel Lin*t
I   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



ANNEX 2
-56 -            Chart 2.2
I ~~~~~~~~aU.   I
116
mNip tAi;? M11~~~~~~~I 
.43    I  a'.    I~ ~~..



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
1.       Six rainfed farm models representing the river basins with major
concentration of selected microcatchments (Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8) were
analyzed to test the impact of the improved land management and soil
conservation practices on the yield of major crops and corresponding farm
incomes (Table 3.1). The six models are small-scale farms: one with maize
and beans as the main crops (System B); two mechanized (System C) with
summer soybeans and maize, and winter wheat cropping; two with tobacco,
cassava and maize as major crops (System B); and one typical onion and bean
farm (System B). The illustrative models take into account the current
declining trend in productivity for the main crops under Systems B and C
(ranging from 5 to 102 over ten years in the *without project" situation),
and the assumption that all recommended on-farm investments would be made,
and all improved land management and pollution control practices would be
gradually adopted by the farmers (sigmoid increase in productivity over 4
years in the "with project" situation). The financial rates of return
before financing and subsidies range from 17 to 32Z. The projected
increases in crop yields under the various farming systems range from 15?
above the projected levels for tobacco, to 27-31? for cassava, onion and
soybeans, 36X for wheat and 43-50? for beans and maize as shown in Table
3.1.
2.       The increased productivity would result from the adoption of land
management and soil conservation practices adapted to each farming system
as follows: (a) System B, a combination of contour farming and strip-
cropping, low-cost vegetative contour barriers and stonewalls, with liming,
systematized inclusion of winter (or summer) green manuring in crop
rotation, increased use of certified seeds and improved manure storage, use
of agro-chemicals and disposal of toxic wastes; and (b) System C, a
combination of contour farming and strip-cropping, vegetative contour
barriers, bunding and/or terracing with reduced tillage associated with
deep ripping, systematized inclusion of winter (or summer) green manuring
in crop rotation, and improved use of agro-chemicals and disposal of toxic
wastes. Details of recommended practices for each farm model are available
in the project file (see Annex 4). Net annual farm benefits from the main
crops which currently vary between US$1,875 and US$3,800 would increase, at
full development (Year 10), to a range of US$1,735 to US$4,855 in constant
terms, instead of declining without the project to a range of US$1,225 to
US$3,515.



- 58 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.       Within the 1.85 million ha of farmland approximately covered by
the 520 microcatchments of the project area, about 240,000 ha (35? of the
area under annual crops and 11X of the area under native forest and
regrowth) are expected to fully benefit from improved land management, soil
conservation, pollution control practices and commercial reforestation
(31,000 ha of eucalypts and 10,000 ha of pine) as shown in Table 3.2.
These developments valued on a per hectare of commodity basis are expected
to lead at full development (Years 10-13) to an annual incremental output
value of US$41 million--71? of this amount would come from increased
productivity of the seven major crops (maize, edible beans, soybean, wheat,
tobacco, cassava and onion) and 29Z from commercial forest products
(fuelwood and timber). These expanded agricultural activities would also
create new on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to about 3,900 man-
years annually.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests
4.       The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be 15?
over a 20-year period (Table 3.3). The cost stream for the economic
analysis is based on five elements: (a) all on-farm investments and
operating costs estimated on a per hectare basis of commodities produced
under various farming systems on about 240,000 ha of farmland as a result
of the adoption rates outlined in para. 3; (b) all project costs except
those related to: the SC Fund already included in on-farm investments, the
conservation reforestation, and the state parks and biological reserves
subcomponent; (c) vehicles and locally procured data processing equipment
required for the project (that were excluded from the project cost because
of reserve procurement conditions); (d) estimated incremental costs for
private extension (cooperatives, agro-industry associations, and
agriculture planning enterprises) and maintenance of rural road sections
improved under the project that were not included in the project cost; and
(e) recurrent costs on a specific declining basis for each component from
Year 8 to Year 20 (with the following overall averages: 52.5 of Year 7
costs for Year 8 and 9, 32.52 in Year 10, 25? from Year 11 to 13, 16? from
Year 14 to 16, and 52 from Year 18 to 20.
5.       Incremental net benefits were estimated on a per hectare basis of
commodities produced on about 240,000 ha of farmland expected to fully
benefit from improved land management and soil conservation practices and
commercial reforestation in the 520 microcatchments under the project.
6.       Economic prices (Table 3.4) at the farmgate were derived from the
main traded goods, including soybean, wheat, maize, tobacco and basic
chemical fertilizers (urea and TSP), taking into account international
trade prices, freight, insurance, port handling, marketing, transport and
processing costs with price trends projected according to those estimated
by the Bank's International Commodity Markets Division at 1989 constant
prices. Cassava, edible beans and forest products were valued at financial
prices. All other outputs, and all inputs, including farm labor were
adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.83) to account for domestic
price distortions.



- 59 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.       Sensitivity tests (Table 3.5) show that the rate of return is
fairly insensitive to either possible variations in costs and benefits or
delays (lag) in achieving project results. If benefits fall by 202, or
project costs rise by 202, the rate of return would still be 13S. A lag of
three years in achieving project results would reduce the rate of return to
the estimated 122 opportunity cost of capital.
8.       The overall rate of return of the project may seem to be
unwarrantably low if compared to a similar project in the neighboring State
of Parana (SAR Report No 7435-BR). The main reasons for this difference
are based on economies of scale. The Santa Catarina project has relatively
higher 'start-up" costs such as those related to project administration and
training; this is because Parana at the time of its appraisal already had a
small, three-year old, soil conservation program in place. Furthermore, in
Santa Catarina, the average farm size is smaller than in Parana thereby
making the relative cost of extension higher. In terms of off-farm costs,
the Parana project is only twice as costly as the Santa Catarina project.
However, the area in Parana that is expected to fully benefit from the
project, and therefore, the directly quantified farm benefits are four
times the corresponding levels of the Santa Catarina project. This is
because in Parana: (i) the percentage of cropped area in relation to the
total farmland is higher than in Santa Catarina; (ii) areas with planted
pastures that were facing soil erosion problems in Parana were included;
and (iii) coffee, one of the main crops, has a high economic price.



Table 3.1
LAN L
Clnuet.cleblea at II luatqml,e FM" N-           _  ht  FiM"cIal kAlale
Fero "odel                           Ea. Far. AeaLhnl\1    b in Crop &               Cropped Are, (be)                   Preductivity *kIAco                         Fare Nt Benefits (US#'                    FII
NO.    NO.   Estim. Area (he)    WC    VP             Production System          w                WP                                    P  at.    n 5                       Y     P t        nceera.
Y              S                  Curentd   Yr0    FU,ll Dn.  (Y riO)   C-ornt    r I0   Pull atn  (Yr. 9  r 10)  (o.r 20 yre)
I          1        168.900       16       16          Ia.z. (8) L r 1        6.0    --        6.0     -         2400        2260      3300/340D  47/51       1875      1855      2670        815             20.2
4 and       57.700                           Ce lb i     Saybean- 2.0                 2.0     -         20OO/80    1900/O 2U60/1100  39/37.5
9         17.900                          SBean  (B)               1.0    --         .0    --         660         595       850         43
Oge nie  anor.         --      --       3.0    --
Crenn  bnuoe           --      -        -3       60
ft^t;  pastre              5.0             5.0
Fallom                     2.0             2.0
2        1 nd        96,300       65        65         S=yen (C)              50.0    -        40.0   --          1650        1600     2100        31         2855      1225      4550         332$           18.8
9          5,200                           Vhet C                  --      20.0     -       20.0      1300         1250     1700        36
lIt;x  C               --      --       10.0   --          --          --       36a0        -
OrCen 1anor            --      --       --      30.0
Fallow                    15.0
3          2         23.500       15.S      15.5       Tobacco (9)            2.5    --        2.5    --          1850        1600     1950        1S         2015      1425       173$        310            27.6   C
5          8.200                          BDene (B)                --      1.5      --      1.5       660         660       850         29
6 and        2 900                           Comseao  (B-12 o )          3.0             a 0            14000        12600    16000       27
7          ;,500                           Maix* (8) Lo, 2         10      --       1.0    --         2100         1900    2800         47
Cr.e.M ttxnure         --               --      4.0
ati,. pet.u.               5 0             5.0
Fal low                    4 0             4.0
4         3          24,300       18.      18.5      Onion B                 3.0    --        3.0    --          10500       9500     12500       31.5       3800      351S      4855         1340           256.
Maiz  (B               --      1.5      -       1.5        2700        2500     3200        2B
Ben  (                 1.5    --       IS      --        660          595     80          43
Crean "aove            --      --       --      3.0
ative FPoture             11.0            11.0
Fallow                     3.0             3.0
5          3         25,000       21.5      21.5      Cern., (B-18 go.)           4.0             4.0            10000       9000      11750       30         3170      1890      2175         285            20.6
Maize (B) Le , 2       1.0    __        1.0    -_         2100         19C0    2B00         47
Tobc*co (8)            2.5    --        2.5    --          1650        1600     1850        1S
Crc  Mnor.             -_  --           --      3.5
NWt.  Pasture             11.0            11.0
Fa llo                     3.0             3.0
6          8          3,800       24        24        ken. (C)                6.0              3 8.0    --        o50        60o       1150        44         2675      2100      2790         690            1.8S
MAlte(C                3.0    --        3.0    --         2650         2500     380         45
Tobacco (8)            2 0     --       2.0    --          1680        1600     15U         15
What (C)                                --      3.0                             1700
or:en Mnr.             --      --       -       8.0
Notine Ptour.             10.0            10.0
Fallow                     3.0             3.0
Totl              435.200       --        --        --                      --      __       _       __        __           __       _
1/ Excluding Foreot and roorowtl
A-.i



Ss~~.d bse~~CVOqPP Aram. TIeIak .SW predialcl of 4bj.c (fte
...... . ........                                                 t ...                      I  a..   c..i       t.  0                     pg            1 NI  10...                                   i.0(.2
41   bl40      al. C-               10**AS Nil              W          0   I       II      U             Ia.     2
....................
*06in./O cc)              710     5 1                                          IS400   3.      s         o       us         .         aUS   mNoo       Om0    140                                                      .
C- -bi" a sob~~~~~~~~~ *1 (~~0 5 .O     01  -    II2                     41     8.    w.g        a0       l.a        --1m/"WUISWIN                        tO     t 00
0-a  (40 0)~~~~~~~~~~~~a    o    .
~~L~~LOa.                    ::  ::                                                                         o    ~               III I.. 1Me:
Mb.                                                                                              g~~~~~~~~~~~~me -    150-                                             .       .ISI
S0     St      (-     I      0        I       .      1    Itt                          Co 4     2       IS
CI    IO      t        i     i 1114                 10     10It:@                    to        50     g            -.      m                i
'0.101.2~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04                                         no           Iscf
IW == (9U?    11                  II        1     S      10     1*  aII                "S' I      1         .   40ala:                  ..                                                                              -
1S              t      I)     10        4     It      4      40     3                                              -        -.0      mm                       -.o.                                         I   ,*a
WI    30    00    100    101    ItO    240  Ml    US   US.I      -         ..      450        ..       -.-                                                             ..     05      IllS/hO         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 0     14    0
50  00    224    211  00    dl~~~~~ 1   0 20      30                            P-           mm                   mm.                        -                                     .       .
S4.1"'2- ol.1.            10       0     ld      00      0       1          4           11  ~.1    a0 -                          low  O        .          ..             .-
P*-W.                  mo     7a       I                        a0.1*30  0  0  30a 141    otuu        .        si       as         ..       .           .     S      lO      24     10      3        O     4        0      S 
2/   A...o   St 10.  2.0      a.  . ..  0 IO   No..  4  do U.    10. S  is a2 02o)to                             SI     t 4                                           a 0     t   
Si A.  210.20.4U.. 5.5 s oe   $2   10.,l....                                    a0 V.                                                                                                                                         O     
U * 1.20... IS *102.24 *em.. Uv 0212  4   IS *  a1... 24*CoN   0.  St. a. *0 W..m        11*11
to t 0 0 St a~~~~F



.~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....  ....  .
* 0 tV. *  Cog    O t tec   0  t nC IVI   964                 A IS   tU c U C' ff   6 "el 6 Weit on QII         "i            i"tr L V%C* 0 W     c Sf't lo   C9 Ct'.O It"                     ol lelwimilo
6 au6   t 1       i  0    4  6 it  6  69          6 *      it 41 * 41      t   * 4   4  4    % e 6 4  1I    %    4 6(If[    I 90    t *IA    t 914*8  9  41                         $966tt   311.  n31sm"
o1 1   0 w1     o 061   0 %6*   6 491   6 11   6 91   ( 4t    93VA I  VA 6  "6 i8t  06   6 406*           I Ct I   9 tug  cuteg  9       36 * "i    t (r1c% 11.46                    s9s3 69w 6ll11 SWIl
t Co    Cto   t to   9 n    C "6       4us6 9C   1       9 1.sn    *     I in                                  W"latal  I
- S" 60t No1 ct    I etc   Iu    st  In    4X ttt    I a              46C usl e        c   "loelltal ' mo"   3b
I      11t      9 tt       tt    441    49    4  4 41 s 9  to 61    ( 1 t  ot    t I  14C    6 4*   011 O 6  1t  0 1W O                      UD 111311 *0Luna6W Mal"   I
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                           ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ott    Bc fie     "  t U   s   r fK  TtomlAt saisnt  a
,4           0 %St      6    @ e  c .A  0o VA   0 Ul 6     @1.6* I  O66 0G.6*    @   @6    @1.66   @1.61   @ O6*   s u64    S*1.6 n         @4        . 6e    s     it    c.O                          81 .366W3*6
'0                                                                                                                 1t1.6  114c  6  41114 t   189.U  9161.1 (C   9 t( 31 tot                             somsa
0'%I     @1    @ e 6*   01 .6l  0 166   01 e6 0161   @ 16   0 %         @1. 6 Ul  @6w *   016*   @16       * *t *1 I .46*  (1 s464   H6c4 0e414   3 949*   6 it1      so WS wa*109lwhwh 3 U*sel  I
1.6*  u60*   1.66       A6*      61.8      96      064                       90100*6in OPIN 3  U
e 9    9 St   S 4C    I9 In            I ff.   1 C46 4sc901  C 904 C" 901 SK COtCit   Csit   cw 9                  roCtO  I ee                                1111FAIN
Iloc*so    Ow 11  9      wc14  61. 81 * o    * 11    4  c    o9*        o 499    c10    640    4*4 c  .8C    41  1.404s o*30                                  * *t9 *d
01.04   01.04   @1w1   @1.04  @0*of   @0t   @0* 00 4 0         00gg   0    041 I t 541    1g60    06CCg   69684   1.806*  1.6not                                3*9nu
6    981         oft 9   16(    1   I 1tn   I Est    I tn C1 46    4 14       946  C w4 C .  S*tC   tS04 C   4c01.   0 "i0    I C4tt                   111I.W*6** *ISU  3
I0*   601046   4 O    1 Oct  619        tot     6 to34    6134    0 1.1          |W6U t lo e "I"1111 ISO ow   I
 9*8   C 9*l   I g1*  1.   C  .tt    s ttc   c 4ot C. (0      Ca" e       96   I 4   6 996    6916    6 991   I 16,   3 fit nc                       *tsi*  1ASId    I
SU* 6*60d *9606
r qN01 6 wu   t cocg o "ftG   I 69til 0 "Olt  St U61C * sefzt 0 *|z I  ccc I tels 9 SSWs  IVO Cu Gm eo             vio 0| Stu. 4 AG"   s 649  9 *CM    % Utz                                   owll l  me to
a  m        tons 9 NMs IKr$ 9 ns cGK  C  oul` I owl 19 totn a cSi IV co 44  Zc &cO   Itn M Sl 6 COStl 6 c%tS I OPcn  eS         Ae CotNt *t4 CA    I$ *C&1X A  lt                 sw    soi  liwe a 
30631*  t*6 tat C tea   I 9C  S1 96 10, 6 "i6t c0 ua  s Gm    s UU1     t ttCS  C Alt .Gott 9 UfC 6    0  CtUO   sc 6   fin   I   t o43  661.94  k@*    46 of                      S     0S6*   w_d   so
4 1061s    (   8444w  6I*1.1  11646 6999 t o    4e 4 t t141   6. gem  c 41WO 6 1(1.  4469C 964   1     0(94 e1 C6 011,1o *  a   s   c 1116     00     1 * 1.4 Iwo                        1 Sl3Ot6 M*O a
94*411  SCU1.(4*901614406C014CC04@1.111*001.4@416431.5666141.60146C46113C11.11*1S66449414@4@6116   11149l3906   661.1*   46*                  91         111u11nu*
oz   61   81 Li   91.  S   - E1 t                                  .   11.01  6    8  1                       9    S    v                C    Z            I
(O.I    1  1    MI
mroa x a_i m"w's



- 63 -
AIEX   8
Pag I
BRAZIL
LAND MANAEMT II PROJECT
Principl Pricos Usd for Ftnancill end Economic Analyse
1989             1990             1995                 2000
CA-odIties                     Fifn.  Econ.    Ftn7.Econ.    Fifn.  Econ.             Fin.   Econ.
OfTPUTS
1. Soybean (export crop)
C.I.F. Rotterdam (US$/ton, bulk)    296      296      272     272      272     272         244      244
Minus Freight and Ino.               26       25       25      25       25      26          26       25
P.0.8. Sao Francitco
- (USI/ton, bulk)                271     271       247     247      247     271         219      219
-(NCz8/ton, bulk)                271      271      247     247      247     271         219      219
Minus - Port Handling,
Storage, *tc.                14       12       14      12       14      12          14       12
-Transport to Port                20       17       20      17       20      17          20       17
-ICMS (18W)                       81        -       27       -       27       -          24        -
Faraato Prico (NCz6/kg)            20.6   24.2    19.6   21.6         18.6   21.8         16.1    19.0
2. Tobacco (export crop)
Export Unit Value
-(US8/ton, flue-cured)          21U4   2184       2176    2178     1967    1967       1882      1662
-(NCZ$/ton, flue-cured)         2184    2184      2176    2176     1967    1967        1882     1862
Minus - Port Handling,
Storage, tc.                  9       7         9       7        9       7          9         7
-Transport to Port                10        6       10       6       10       6          10        6
-ICMS (8.5C)                     160       -       168       -      165       -        16         -
Ex-Foctory Price (NCz6/kg)         1.94    2.12      1.99    2.16     1.76    1.95        1.71     1.67
Minus Processing nd
Transport to Factory             1.07    0.69      1.07    0.89     1.07    0.69        1.07     0.69
Farugate Price (HCz6/kg)             .67    1.28      .91    1.27      .71    1.06         .64      .98
3. Maize (Import substitute)
F.0.8. Gulf Port
(USS/ton, yellow 2)              118     118       98       98      102     102        109      109
Plus Freight *nd In*.                20       20       20      20       20      20          20       20
C.I.F. Sao Francisco
-(US$/ton, bulk)                 188     188       118     118      122     122        129       129
-(KCzS/ton, bulk)                188     188       118     118      122     122        129       129
Plus - Port Handling,
Storage, etc.                16      1S        16      1S       16      1S         16        1S
-Transport to Market,
Bagging                           14      12       14      12       14      12          14       12
Equalo Wholes le Market
Prce (NCzS/ton)                   165      160      145     140      154     149         16l      15s
Minus - Tronsport to Market          10        8       10       6       10       8          10        a
-ICmS (12x)                       19       -        i6       -       17       -         16         -
Farqato Price (NCzd/kg)            0.14    0.16      0.12    0.18     0.18    0.14       0.18      0.15
4. Whet (import substitute)
F.O.B. Canadian Port (US$/ton)      208      208      167     16?      1S6     156         169      169
Plus Freight and Ins.                26       2        26      26       28      28          26       26
C.I.F. Soo Fr icicco
-(USS/ton, bulk)                 281     281       195     195      196     166        197       197
-(NCzS/ton, bulk)                281     281       195     19S      196     166        197       197
Plus - Port Handling,
Storage, etc.                18      15        16      16       16      15         16        1S
-Transport to Market,
8ngtng                         14      12       14       12       14      12         14       12
-ter ff (12%)                     82        -       27       -       26       -         27         -
Equalo Whollesal  Morket
(NCz6/ton)                        295     256      254      222      244     218        2S6      224
Minus - Transport to Market          10        8       10       8       10       6          10        6
-ICms (17W)                       46        -       41       -       40       -         42         -
Farupto Price (NCz6/kg)            0.24    0.25      0.20    0.21     0.19    0.20       0.20      0.21



-64 A-EX3
Table 8.
r;lT;-1. 4
Pe" 2
-----------------_ --    -------------------------_-_ ------------_-_ ------_-_ -----_______----------------------_-_----------_
1989            1990             1995              2000
Ce emoitloe                    Fln   Econ.    Fin   SEcon.    Ftn7Econ.    Fin. _--Econ.
IWUTS
1. Urea
F.O.9. NW Europe (US$/ton,
begged)                         170    170       206    206       211    211       194       104
Plus Frelght and Ins.              70      70       70      70       70      To       70        70
C.I.F. Sao Francisco
-(US/ton)                      240    240       276    276       281    281       264       264
-(NCz/ton)                     240    240       270    270       281    281       264       264
Plus - Port Handling,
Storage, etc.               17      14       17      14       17      14       17        14
-Transport to Form,
Marketing                     28      19       23      19       28      19       28       1t
Faragate Pr ie (NCZS/kg)         0.26    0.27    0.82    0.81    0.82    0.81       0.80      0.2"
2. TS
F.0.. US Gulf (US$/ton,
bulk)                            16o    165      178    1781    206    20          218       210
Plus Froight and Ins.              C0      SO       50      so       so      so       so        so
C.i.F. Sao Francisco
-(US$/ton)                     216    216       228    22        2560    26e      288       266
-(NCZS/ton)                    216     215      228    228       250    256       268       2"O
Plus - Port Handling,
Storage, etc.               17      14       17      14       17      14       17        14
-Sagging, Tranapopt
to Farm, Marketing            45      87       45      87       45      87       46        87
Faragato Prico (NCzS/kg)         0.28   0.27      0.2"    0.27    0.32    0.31    0.88        0.82
Source: Calculet<d on the basis of International prices from 2CM Division mmo of June 28, 1989; IN constant
US$ 'dJustod to 1969 constant USS using factor 1.495 (MvY Index). With the exception of edible beans,
cossava and forest products priced at financial prices, economic prices for other outputa and Inputs
were calculated using tho standard conversion factor of .68.



- 65 -                                                        ANNEX 3
Table 3.5
BRAZIL
LAND mANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Project Sensitivity Analysis
SHITCHING VALUES AT 121
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                  VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
8TOT tNC          4 65036E-07  3.27589E-07          -29 a61
CTOT. IC          3 27589E-07  4 65036E.07          41. 96
--. -. -.  -. -.. -.-. -. - -- -  .. ... .. ...   I --- -- --- -- -- ----- ---.
Net Present Value at OCC 12  = 13.744, 715. 7
Internal Rate of Return   1S 31
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return   t8S
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE Of 121
8TOT. INC      UP 10       UP 201       UP 502    DOWN 102    001d 201    0OM  50   LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CtOT. INC    13. 744. 715. 718. 395.078.223.045.440. 736. 996. 528. * 9.094.353.3 4. 443, 990. 8-9. S07. 096.6 8.762. 184.5 4,313.495.9   341. 452.5
UP 102       10.468.824.IS.119.187.319.769.549 833.720.637 2 5.818. 462. 4 1, 168. 099.9 -1. 2783E-07 5, 486. 293. 6 1, 037. 605. 0-2. 934. 438.4
UP 202        7. 192.933.911.843,296.416.493.658. 930.444.746.3 2.542,571.5-2. 107.791.0 -1. 605AE.07 2.210. 40?. 7-2.238.285.9-6,210.329.3
UP 502       -2.634.738.8 2.015.623.7 6.665,986 220. 617. 073 6-7. 28t. 101.2 -1 1935E-07 -2 5886E.07-7. 617,270.0 -1. 2066E-07 -I 6038E-07
DOW  101    17.020.606. 621. 670.969 126.321. 331. 640.272.419. 012,370.244 2 7,719.881 7-6.231 205.712.038.075. 4 7.589.386.8 3.617. 343.4
0OMN 20X    20.296.491.524.946.860. 029. 597. 222 543. 548, 309. 915. 646. 135 110,995. 772. 6-2. 955. 314. 81S. 313.'966. 310. 865. 277. 7 6.893.234. 3
DOWM 502    30. 124. 170. 234. 774. 532. 739. 424. 895. 253. 375. 982. 625. 473. 807. 820. 823. 445 3 6.872,357 925. 141. 639. 020. 692,950.416.720.907.0
LAG 1 YEAR              -             -            -           -            -            -            -12.272.067.6 7.823,379.0 3.851.335.6
LAG 2 YEARS                    -            -            -            -            -                  -            -10.957,203. 2 6.985. 159.8
LAG 3 YEARS              -            -                         -                                     -                         - 9. 783.217.2
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
8TCT. INC      UP 102       UP 202       UP 502    DOWN 101    DON 202    DOWN 501  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT. INC          15.327       16, 184      16.946       18 801       14 354       13.237        8 537       14. IOS      13.028       12.081
UP 102             14.448       15 327       16. IlI      18.027       13 453       12.313        7 549       13 269       12 237       It 336
UP 201             1., .28      14 526       15.327       17 296       12.613       11 455        6 639       12 493       11 508       10 650
UP So             11.455       12.394       13 237       15.327       10.399        9.201        4 283       10. 459       9.607        8.873
DOWN 102           16.273       17 104       17 840       19 625       15.327       14 238        9 618       15.012       13.890       12 896
tN 202             17 296       18. 095       A. 801      20.504       16. 383      15. 327      10 810       16.001       14 836       13. 796
001M  501          20 966       21.623       22. 197      23.551       20.204       19.310       15. 327      19.648       18.398       17.236
LAG 1 YEAR                     -                   -           -            -            -            -       15 327       14. 105      13. 028
LAG 2 YEARS              -            *                        *                                                           IS 327       14 105
LAG 3 YEARS             -                         -                   -                  -            -                   -             15. 327
Present Value of Streams at           12. 002
8TOT. INC          4 65036E-07
CTOT. INC          3. 27589E-07
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
NET. 8INC                 15 331
*.* Runninng Stbfile  TA8LEI  Called by Subfile  NASTER/ERR



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
I. State Government of Santa Catarina Documents (October/November 1987,
June 1988, November/Dpcember 1988; February 1989 and April 1989)
A. October/November 1987.
- Program of Natural Resource Rehabilitation and Protection in
Microcatchments
- Evaluation of Soil Conservation Programs in Santa Catarina
(Preliminary Version)
B.  June 1988.
Volume I   : General Report
Volume II  : Technical Strategy
Volume III : Project Component Description
Volume IV  : Annexes
Annex I  : Previous Soil Conservation Experience in
Santa Catarina
Annex II : Farm Models (First VeiFsion)
Annex III:  Project Area
Annex IV : Project Organization and Management
Annex V  : Institutional and Financial Analysis of the
Borrower
Annex VI : Definition of Project Priorities
C.  November/December 1988
Volume I   : General Report
Volume II  : Technical Strategy
Volume III : Project Component Description
Volume IV  : Operational Manual
Volume V   : Annexes
Annex I  : Previous Soil Conservation Experience in Santa
Catarina
Annex II : Farm Models (Revised Version)
Annex III:  Project Area
Annex IV : Project Organization and Management
Annex V  : Institutional and Financial Analysis of the
Borrower
Annex VI : Definition of Project Priorities
D. February 1989
- Santa Catarina Environmental Legislation
- Land Commission Report on Status of Land Tenure in State Parks
and Biological Reserves (June 1988)



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
page 2 of 2
E. April 1989
a) Working Papers on:
1)      - Adaptive Research (EMPASC)
2)      - Land Use Mapping, Planning and Monitoring (EMPASC)
3)      - Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation
and Pollution Control (SAAI)
4)      - Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads (DER-SC)
5)      - Forestry Development and Natural Resource Protection:
- Commercial and Conservation Forestry Development (CIDASC)
- Enforcement of Environmental Laws within the
Microcatchment (FATMA)
- State Parks and Biological Reserves Protection and
Management (FATMA)
6) - Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (SMAI,
CEPA-SC)
7)  - Training (EMPASC, EMATER-SC, CIDASC, FATMA, DER-SC)
b) Various State Laws, Decrees and State Agency Statutes
F. June to October 1989
a) - Portaria SAAI No. 0067/89/SAAI dated 06107189 appointing the AU
acting team. (Grupo Tarefa)
b) - Letters appointing component coordinators.
c) - Decrees No. 3610 and 3611, dated 07/27189, amending the decree
No. 14250, dated 06/05/81, which regulated the State
Environmental Law, and creating the project Management Committee
and the AU, respectively.
d) - Draft administrative, legal and technical guidelines for DER-SC
staff.
e) - Decree No. 3814, dated 09111/89, creating the Coordinating Unit
within DER-SC Planning and Coordination Directorate.
f) - Preliminary project budget allocation for 1990.
g) - Draft Operational Manual for the Use of the SC Fund.
h) - Decision of the State Attorney General to carry out the
complementary land discrimination process in the area of the
project parks.'
i) -Draft Resolution regulating the project Management Committee and
the AU.
j) -Draft Terms of Reference for the project baseline evaluation.
k) -Draft Operating Agreements (convenios) between SAAI-SC and the
executing agencies.
II.   IBRD Documents (May-July 1989)
- Staff Working Paper For Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads
- COSTAB (with and without vehicles and data processing equipment
locally procured)
- FARMOD (6 farm models)
- DISPLAY (Economic Analysis)



-~~~~~~~~~~~ R BA ZI L
lAND MANAGEMENT 1I PROJECT (SANTA CATARINA)                                                                                                    PA RA N9 A
PROJECT AREA - ADAPTIVE RESEARCH, LAND USE MONITORING,r                                                                                                                            ^iol 
RURAL EXTENSION AND PROJECT ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT                                                                                     i. AS              *EO
z                                                                                                                                                                                       A,'  ,       Ntrrt            < 
A ~~~~~~~~~~~t                      PA                                                                                                        9,rrr       tkr
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC t..                                                                  ,\ASI,r'''U ^A"x;............ ' '''RrAN. ;r A>,,e, ,4,
<                                                                                                                         P.    A',  Q   t A' xcrl fIA A'  .r  r.>A .   .J .r" b    . ;ArS
> iteltA.I r:sr rCr.>v :v. .;tr/rS .......AI                -A 11TO                                                           Q                  -rr'IcE, ,rl . .A  ^   ;R t saA'.^1 A A.
)~ ~~ ~~~~'1 KA'                                lt.-"'A                                                                                                                                            -A,i IAAN 'JA   (;+  U' ?,3A.^ trt.    ;.i    '';J.,,l{    :I*
2      ^>tr)  A3.'  {)  ^(8trtrAt"/              ')^9rO^                      t't?A         ra(^                                          'r  J";Im v;- CA  .pA5?.tAi  Ar
If)    t         O         ~          SONO ratD                                         5TTDIA?RAtZO   v
,   , ,, .  ,                                                                         ., ANnA rDl                     Cf RRITo    ,                               . WACNER  tiNlUSUt - DO~~~or ~ ,,  .(A   It"
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TS A,1NI '.IIA .'A '^rRXOGR  DEDOSU
0  ICK)COSIA 0                                      PAa O lOPf 5             a
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t 5E
...  ..  _.@  , .. OURt.^O <?SfA RO5ADEI^MA ............. r 'r ^ A~~~~~~~~~~~COWAPMO                                                                              M,"NA 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-" Of a,T.0
CROARAo     totc-S40  JtP  tW"tU
stAS_  I    tIr3bK t_ /                                                                                                   9^~~~~~~~~RI     GR ND     DO}f SULix              ai,IIWG A
4       A       ^    EMPASC Oporn/ Owenfrd                        prolrirtAtfva IMljnlelszzitl<ssl                         '^ ' '^P' ^         U2U.^         gttAoAXt 0
1                  MetoTo%rZlcal Snhonx                       Pnvrso Rnods                                                .\                 .5LRAs ,+s:.l5^^^" '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)P,iotpf
.        Q       >    EMPASC Rrtwntrhstohons                       MninR2vrhrs                                             .s        t t        tt          A#wAft>tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SA RsA1J-  (c"p'
t   B R A  Z I L   O  *    ttMPASC/CIDASCSozilnttorstorzes             Rovt8nsilBnrSubbnsmBntilsdolres                                           >.   o      st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRAPARA0  100 FCI.N
.   j   .   p.  ,.  . D f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                 MPASC Opmahd Prcr                          NolinaUnxt A= , .   .  , '.VA.TTE  ,,im>^
;. <    \ ~~~~~v. *                 gl           Sf SAAI Rrp~~~~wtm loncal Stafdm             Pave,,  Ruiloods                                                                   -*L.A-Wi'CA1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=   (                                   t MPAS  Relb-  h  Staho                      Mamtle R, -S Do 
< ~ ~~~~~~~~            R At Zrtl   It  L                            20     40 FMA  0       80 CIDA_ Sailobo Laboratories
o~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~    Bai or Su 6Itn.El                                                 Bo idessFW
Xo ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~   ~       ~~~~~~~~~                       I MPASC4A  Lan LJse MpigC      ,                          ','                                                 OM _ARA.. ._ _           2g 



BRAZIL                                                                                                       P
LAND MANAGEMENT 11 PROJECT (SANTA CATARINA)                                                                                                      PARANA
)                    PROJECT AREA - FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND                                                                                                                                       AW ^:           ;
NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION COMPONENT                                                                                         A"S)A5.              oI
<                                                                                                                  PAPANWVA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAACA'C
. DOS'  DO. 'A^e/WN ,                                                                                                                                                              j
W                                          ,                      ,-  $>  .,                    ,                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ROvNIGRltNH4  . 1
RQUOA          "A                                                                                 <U-A NKO  --.A A   PARAN '    i                       0 o.                       ((.441
-~~~~~~)S DO                         C.MoEE   t$f OCAD              - -
4_                                                                                                                                                                0r4AiSECOCEDRO  AACIT                                              ARlROt -,  AWA^V!
Z                  R OA4MA               SA,DO,GO _                                                                                                                                    P  ,-
lUMlJ S S[D'OtS tlA<AQ lO ,'   0 ROW LCA,'   'MILOMA'
<a ;USC~~~~ANSO               o r           SaUtN FtRtItASOXMKRZ                                                                                                                          oNE#UD _ox^M~A   .J t
S     SO 0        O              s otmeo                COUN  -  -                             d          A                                 . AMPAL                                MA.A ,  4CC.         A44.DA4,  WAI
041110~CUSCONC A                           YAtLAROO  O)4MA0T                 ,         (AAEOPAOR oVA                                    0AC              _O                 9WgaA  5.4404   A i:i.
(                                                    olFrurrA               OCJ^fO5NOtOS                         o      otA(ruCcc4tA o    o    IM6VrA    S     (hWCW  AN''ISQ        rz~~~~~~~~l--     4441A  OIAA
0  0                                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
evNRA PORA  0              M'O    ~AGUAA( IC)                                ARRTR!                                                       a                                  '-PA,.
* 0430)  O    StROM)           ROSr DORSES                                                                                 40')                    .'4ARRAOKMATRNA  ,
0CA,MANVAS   IRE) .l TIOAS
p  Mo                         ^*aRCo "'MO             0             0                                                      TAJO
),,  ,^;";..R1    G AN E DO SU CASE  CTos                                                                                                                                                                          ' L P 40>, ,1
eAONRAP0   0    00     A4UA)4DE CRM'CO      OXAAzf                        0C& CP R h     0~ LANC,0v,                                                   0 o                                                 7IORR)R)
CAXAA"0o1 .                                                                                                                                            IA%   o            s
It-PIRANCA  DO vit  (&CO   . A              AVpA    0   OH -181CAPE                                           pmw  L~~~~~~0OIAcA(.COSIA ,0                   WU4 )R,tA
,*,/, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~,O  joREv                                                                                                                       SE    ,TASM tOSA nt  UMEA ~' 'ASlICS SA
"'A b  h.-4                                                                                                                                                                                                           0   .2AISTRARA   o      >0Hc" AAO
PE PROJETA   tACoOPOs)                        CrMIANO? TrRR)LE                                 0TU()hN;R 0
A Cenbrs            Poved PoodsAA                                                                    w       A'WLDO
L-                      B  R  A  Z I L                              o     Pork'/ -'-oTrvo Con7rol Posh                   Moin Prvcrs                                                 $ ' .4**'.**"  t40VA VrNoA  rato C
n  2<           <~~~~~~.                                                Rivet 8Osin or Suibosm roundorsrs                      I                          o    rU~~~~~~~~0050.ROS SUM    ~0&RRA3
r''Un tEN4EA))AV{, /                                                 .TrOS~  PorV ond Bbogicrrl                                                                                                                        ORsRtMo AterCE RRSR)ASNo  /   O O  4
* yOV . lTourrSURiRJ)                                                                                 vRRN                                                                                               0po AWA....Vl .M  ....5. O TR
,T \+~~~~ ~~ * ,8   _   ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     POJET                     Project Ao  8          uiidt A    tre MnEeartis                          f0rh6,aWN
|   1   AroNnNA   fv   t       0       20      40     A0        50           _   _   Internotiond Boundoriff                              <           >   S tOAoriOSUE                                                    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Art5  wwmg   OMAD
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~etr                                                       Pa. R.d                                                         '\                '  RSDRAS4AS 4'
/                                                                                                                           Main Riven                                                  J'   NOVAS5E*A C  I        t
- "'A                  kM.                                                                                      I 4..,..~An..jt..s..  4 Is
EXtST!NG              &...rq.. A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.tSA, ~~~~~~'           *                      'AR.4AAAJA-,Y  ARIAI
A  PATMA Control Posh in    State Capital ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ TA  MA   U
LA    -                                                                                                     '         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0 AW   M&
.,,                           'A~~~~~~~~~~~~_.  tAKm 1
(LXOR               uo ;y                                  _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _ A_                        _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _A__            _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _    _ _   _



