Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20482
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-31600; SCPD-3160S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION 33.0
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR LAND MANAGEMENT II - SANTA CATARINA PROJECT
(LOAN 3160-BR)
JUNE 7, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = New Cnzzado (NCz$) (At Appraisal)
Rate at Appraisal NCz$4.46 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = R$1.70 Rate at Completion
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABEPA        Associafdo Brasileira de Empresas de Planejamento Agropecudrio
(Brazilian Consulting Firms Association)
CIDASC       Companhia Integrada de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Santa Catarina
(State Integrated Agricultumal Development Company)
DER          Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado
(State's Roads Department)
EPAGRI       Empresa de Pesquis Agropecuariaa e Extensdo Rural
(State's Agricultural Research and Rural Extension Enterprise)
FATMA               Funda,do de Mejo Ambiente
(State Environmental Management Foundation)
FAO-CP              FAO-World Bank Cooperation Programme
ICEPA        Instituto de Planejamento e Economia Agricola de Santa Catarina
(State Institute of Agricultural Planning and Agro-Economics)
MC           Microcatchment
MTR          Mid4enm Review
PROSOLO    Programa de Conservagdo do Solo (Project Soil Conservation Incentive Fund)
PU           Project Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDM          Secretara do Desenvolvimento Urbano e do Mejo Ambiente
(State Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment)
SDA          Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Rural e da Agricultura
(Secretariat for Rural Development and Agriculture)
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Graciela Lituma



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-31600; SCPD-3160S)
LAND MANAGEMENT II - SANTA CATARINA PROJECT
(LOAN 3160-BR)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Perfonrance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                        15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                               34
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                             36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006473                                        Project Name: BR LND MGMT II-S. CATAR
Team Leader: Graciela Liuma                                TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: June 7, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: BR LND MGMT II-S. CATAR                         L/C,TFNumber: CPL-31600;
SCPD-3160S
County/Department: BRAZIL                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natual Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/03/88                                 Effective: 10/18/91            10/18/91
Appraisal:  04/03/89                                   AMTR: 07/30/94              12/31/95
Approval:  01/30/90                                 Closing: 09/30/97             06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: STATE OF SANTA CATARINA/SEC. OF AG. OF SANTA CATARINA
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                           S. Shahid Husain
CountryManager:       Gobind T. Nankani                          Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:       Robert Schneider                           N
Team Leader at ICR:   Graciela Lituma                            J. Pierre Delsalle
ICR PrimaryAuthor:  Ivo MaLzall; Simnon Hocombe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Un1ikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: BL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk atAny Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to increase agricultural production, productivity and farm incomes for some
8 1,000, mostly small-scale farmers, by promoting the adoption of sustainable, modem forms of land
management and soil and water conservation, thus safeguarding farmer incomes and Santa Catarina's
natural resources. It would also assist in halting depletion of natural resources, water source pollution and
rural road destruction. The project was consistent with local needs to reverse ongoing land degradation
resulting from current use of inappropriate technology, added momentum to changes that were already
incipient among farmers, and built for the most part on recent research findings and institutional
innovations at community level. It accorded with Bank policies tbat were emerging at the time, to diversify
its country support from poverty alleviation in the Northeast to address Brazil's growing environmental
problems and the constraints facing small-scale farmers in other regions. The project is the second in a
series of pioneer state projects aimed at supporting innovative technical approaches for soil conservation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective were maintained throughout the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
With the aim of halting environmental degradation and declining agricultural productivity, the project
sought to introduce methods of land management that would improve soil and water conservation, and
disposal of animal, human and pesticide wastes, in 520 of Santa Catarina's 1,700 microcatchments,
distributed among 143 of the State's then 199 municpalities. Main components included agricultural
extension; research; introduction of incentives to share with farmers the costs of introducing more
sustainable and less environmentally damaging land management practices; support for reforestation of
critical parts of the landscape; and improvement of rural access roads to prevent the generation of erosive
run-off onto farmer's fields and improve year round accessibility. Supporting components included land
use planning, mapping and environmental monitoring; training; and project administration. Funding for
two State parks and a biological reserve was added at appraisal, at the special request of the State
Governor.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components and total funding allocations were maintained throughout implementation. In response to
disparities in rates of implementation or differences from unit costs estimated at appraisal, with the
agreement of the Bank there was some adjustment of fund allocations between components. In particular,
following the Mid Term Review more funds were allocated to adaptive research (+33%), extension (+22%)
and land use mapping (+52%), while allocations were reduced to rural roads (-18%), forestry and
environmental protection (40%) and the parks component (-64%). Only in the last case was adjustment
linked to major changes in overall physical targets, when it was found that the parks component was parTly
un-implementable. Though in some cases demanding, after any necessary adjustments the major
components proved within the capacity of the main implementing institutions.
Rating              Component                                          Sector
HS    RESEARCH                                                         8,500,000.00
HS    AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                           XX            17,400,000.00
S     INCENTIVE PROGRAM                                XX             9,000,000.00
S     EROSION CONTROL WORKS ALONG RURAL ROADS          XX            21,100,000.00
S     FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCE
PROTECTION                               XX             8,300,000.00
S    PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                            XX             4,000,000.00
HS    TRAINING                                         XX             3,300,000.00
-2-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project pre-dates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank. However, it is clear that in general
the project objectives responded to urgent needs in the State and were fully consistant with the Country
Assistant Strategy for Brazil. Project strategy and components were conducive to the achievement as set
objectives and build on experience in neighboring Parana project experience. As was customary at the
time, project documentation focused mainly on physical schedules and targets. A detailed monitoring and
evaluation system was to be designed and set up by the Project Unit (PU) only during implementation; this
and design of the parks component proved unsatisfactory. Nonetheless, overall Quality at Entry is assessed
as satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall assessment of the project is highly satisfactory. Although ex post evaluations were complicated
by drought, productivity of the main crops - maize, wheat and soyabeans - is estimated to exceed without
project productivity by 20 to 35%. Soil loss was reduced by between 10 and 50%. Runoff water in
streams contained less suspended solids, coliform bacteria and pesticide residues, thus lowering silting and
water treatment costs in downstream areas, and reducing the incidence of water borne diseases and
pesticide poisoning. Maintenance costs for rural roads were reduced by up to 80%; better all-weather
access stimulated both commercial and social activities. Improved land management practices, capable
collectively of increasing water retention on crop land, improving soil structure, raising fertility and
reducing erosion, were adopted on some 400,000 ha in 534 assisted microcatchments (103% of the
appraisal target). About 106,000 farm families were reached with one form or another of project
assistance - 131% of the appraisal target and equal to about 35% of all farmers in the State. Spontaneous
adoption of improved practices occurred on a further 480,000 ha in non-project microcatchments.
The new land management practices proved more profitable to farmers than the practices they replaced, as
well as less labour demanding. The more participatory approaches of government extension and research
organisations that were introduced or reinforced under the project have since become the main modes of
operation of what is now the State's Agricultural Research and Rural Extension Enterprise, EPAGRI.
Farmers, under the initial stimulus of project requirements to form groups in order to qualify for financial
incentives for technical change, have not only developed new habits of co-operation but are now using them
for a wider range of purposes. Only in environmental monitoring and implementation of the parks
component were there serious initial shortcomings. Environmental monitoring became fully effective only
in the final project year, it was necessary to transform the implementation approach for the parks
component as well as reducing its size.
Paradoxically, despite its impressive physical, productivity and institutional achievements, the project did
not succeed in its aim of raising farm incomes. The main causes were events outside project control, in
particular Brazil's severe macroeconomic adjustments during the implementation period and its decision to
join Mercosul, the South Cone free trade area. At the project level, they had the effect of lowering farm
output prices and exposing Santa Catarina's farmers to industrial-scale producers in areas with better
climates and soils, with whom they could not compete. Thus much of the financial benefit from the
project's gains in productivity accrued to the local urban population in the form of lower prices. The drift of
young people from farming into towns slightly accelerated. Analyses made by the project management
show, however, that farmers who adopted improved practices of land management suffered substantially
smaller declines in income than those who did not. In the circunstances, this financial outcome can be
considered satisfactory.
-3-



4.2 Outputs by components.
Assessments of the physical and institutional performances of individual components are given below and
detailed in the tables of Annex 1, Key Performance Indicators.
Rural Extension. Overall, the component is rated as highly satisfactory. Extension was the pivotal
component of the project. Its aim was to communicate to all farners and communities in project
microcatchments a technical strategy based on appropriate choices from a menu of resource management
changes with four ultimate aims: to reduce surface sealing of the soil by rain splash; to facilitate
percolation and in situ retention of rain by improving soil structure; to put in place the physical means to
contain any potentially erosive runoff that nevertheless still occurred; and to limit chemical and bacterial
contamination of drainage and ground water. Since changes with these aims are only effective if applied to
the whole landscape, the microcatchment was chosen as the natural basis for physical planning.
Extensionists were required to communicate the technical strategy to the rural population, mobilise
communities within each microcatchment, assist farmers to prepare individual farm improvement plans,
and then integrate implementation of farm plans within each microcatchment, relying on co-operation
between resource users who were grouped into local associations.
Extension assistance was to be provided to farmers from four sources: State public extensionists,
co-operatives, agroindustries and private extensionists. Some 150 State extensionists were to take the lead.
Using a Technical Manual to be developed by the project, they were to work with local soil conservation
commissions and farners in planning and implementing improvements in land use at microcatchment and
individual farm level. They would vet farmer's applications for grants under the incentive scheme, and
involve 110 extensionists from the other three sources in project activities as appropriate.
Implementation of the component was hindered initially by several unexpected policy decisions taken by the
State or imposed from Federal level. Recruitment by the public service was frozen so that a foreseen 60
incremental govemment extensionists were not available; Santa Catarina's then separate public extension
and research services were merged; and it was decided to make agricultual extension a municipal
responsibility, thus distancing the State-level public extensionists from farmers. Municipal extension
capacity was extremely limited at this time and unequal to the task of component implementation.
These difficulties were overcome by adjustments to original implementation plans. Municipal extension
services were created and trained, with 50% of their funding needs being taken on by the project; State
extensionists provided back-up. Although because of these setbacks the extension component only became
fully operational in PY3, by completion there were about 100 municipal extensionists in the field.
Encouraged by farmers' responses to the project, reversal of the earlier decision to make extension an
exclusively municipal responsibility, and the realisation that the group approach initially used to improve
land management could be a vehicle for other forms of rural assistance - e.g. to improve household
sanitation - the state and municipal authorities eventually had a combined total of 350 extensionists in the
field, bringing the total to 240% of the SAR estimate. To further exploit the advantages of the group
approach, training in these aspects was strengthened following the Mid Term Review. Extension by
agroindustries was part time, but involved the planned number of staff. Direct participation of extensionists
from the private sector and co-operatives - at 63% and 23% respectively of appraisal estimates - was less
than estimated, although many of them appear to have absorbed and applied the project's technical
strategy.
Despite its initial implementation constraints, it assisted 103% of the planned number of microcatchments,
144% of the planned municipalities and 131% of the target number of farmers. Adoption of key
-4-



technologies for improved land management mostly exceeded appraisal estimates (see Annex 1), and there
were large increases in the uptake of minimum and zero tillage on farms of all sizes. Extension was later
widened to cover assistance on domestic sanitation and control of pollution arising from pig/fish farming.
Habits of co-operation were created among rural communities with wider future utility for development
programmes. There appears scope both to widen the extension approach to assist further microcatchments
and communities, and to use the institutional capacity and new skills created to address the problems
arising from reduced farm incomes.
Adaptive Research. The component is also rated as highly satisfactory. This component aimed at
endorsing the technical strategy by developing and adapting adequate technological solutions to problems
identified by the famning community at the microcatchment level. The component achieved appraisal main
objective and targets such as numbers of trials to be conducted, upgrading of agro-meteorology stations and
creation of processing capacity for seeds of essential green manure crops. Adaptation of minimum and zero
tillage machinery to the needs of small-scale farmers was highly successful and stimulated some 60 private
companies to start manufacturing this equipment. The State Research/Extension Enterprise also took over
some environmental monitoring when this proved beyond the capacity of the environmental authorities, and
helped find solutions to the pollution problems arising from pig/fish farming. Greater exposure to
farm-level problems following the merger with the State extension enterprise has helped to focus current
resea-ch on more relevant topics. Nonetheless some emerging technical challenges remain un-addressed.
Future programmes could address, for instance, the need to control the new pest and disease complexes that
can follow the change to reduced or zero tillage, and the absence of environmentally friendly biological
contnrl agents for weeds.
Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and Pollution Control. The component
aimed to share with groups of farners at microcatchment level the costs of implementing improved land
management and pollution control measures, acting as a demand-driven incentive for change. The program
was designed exclusively to support investments identified in the microcatchment management plans
supported under the Rural Extension component. To qualify for support, individuals had to be members of
groups in which small farmers predominated. The scale of cost sharing depended on the proportion of small
farmers in the group and the item to be acquired or constructed; grants were smaller for late-comers than
for those joining the project early. Equipment was to be communally owned and operated and all incentives
were planned to end with final disbursement.
Start-up of this component was delayed by new policies that restricted direct payment of incentives to
farmers. This was eventually overcome by creating a Santa Catarina incentive fund, PROSOLO; however
passing the necessary legislation to create the fund through the State Assembly took over a year. Approval
and payment procedures specified at appraisal were furthermore found to be excessively cumbersome and
had to be streamlined during implementation. Despite these factors PROSOLO turned out to be a very
important tool in motivating farmers to discuss the problems of land management in their microcatchments
with extension staff, and inducing them to adopt remedies. Soil testing, adoption of conservation tillage
practices (particularly zero tillage), green manuring, terracing and reforestation were made possible for
some 30,000 fanmers, or almost a third of beneficiaries. Over 11,000 items of collectively owned
equipment were bought (191% of appraisal targets) and targets for construction of toxic waste disposal
pits, agrochemical mixing points, animal waste fermentation tanks, as well as for distribution of green
manure seeds and terracing, were all exceeded. Water source protection, water treatment structures and
domestic waste disposal were added to the items eligible for support during implementation. No attempt
has been made to estimate whether the scale of public goods benefits that were generated by PROSOLO
matched the government share of costs. Nevertheless, extemal benefits in the form of reduced
environmental damage and improved potential sustainability of farming systems were considerable. For the
-5-



future, the external benefits of PROSOLO public expenditures should be quantified more systematically
and compared with the fund's costs, with a view to deciding whether, in the current depressed state of
farming, its re-establishment would be justified.
The US$8.8 million provided by the component was ultimately complemented by commitment of some
US$31 million of private resources. The need for farmers to form groups to receive PROSOLO support,
and to operate equipment and facilities collectively, have established habits of co-operation which have
persisted and been put to wider use, thus building social capital in rural communities. Therefore this
component is rated highly satisfactory.
Forestry Development and Natural Resources Protection. Reforestation was an important part of the
project's technical strategy, due to the predominantly hilly terrain and humid climate of Santa Catarina.
Operating under the responsibility of the State Integrated Agricultural Development Company (CIDASC)
with back-up from State extensionists, implementation of the reforestation sub-component was initially
slow. Raising planting incentives and further extension training overcarne initial reluctance of farners and
eventually allowed objectives for creation of new forest nurseries and commercial plantings to be reached:
41,600 ha were planted and commercial forestry came to be seen by farmers as a useful means of income
diversification. Conservation reforestation with slower growing, native species suffered technical problems
and was less well accepted by farmers; only 8,900 ha (73% of the SAR and 148% of the MTR revised
target) were planted.
Two other sub-components, one for enforcement of environmental laws and monitoring of project
environmental impacts, and the other to create two State parks and a biological reserve, were to be
implemented by the Santa Catarina Environmental Foundation (FATMA). FATMA achieved some success
in improving the observance of forestry laws using the help of the State's forest police, but failed to
monitor the quality of run-off water from a sample of project microcatchments adequately. Monitoring was
eventually transferred to the extension and research service, but only became fully effective in the final
project year. The parks sub-component, added to the project at the last moment, had been inadequately
prepared. While its objectives was relevant to the State's needs, they were overly ambitious, given
FATMA's limited institutional capacity. Re-design of this sub-component was necessary at the MTR,
which resulted in a reduction in the number of protected areas to be supported under the project from three
to one. The Tabuleiro State Park was selected based on the higher degree of threat to its ecological integrity
and its size, about 90,000 ha or over 95% of SAR target for conserversation units. An approach based on
expropriation and policing was eventually replaced by a participatory approach to park management by
local communities. This has since been adopted as a model to apply to other protected areas in Brazil.
Attitudes in FATMA have radically changed. Draft laws to create and regulate the State Conservation
System and to create a pro-ecology tax are now being evaluated by the Legislature; these are expected to
facilitate the operation of the park during 2000. Nevertheless, due to the change in scope and the
inconclusive work, although very sound and promising, the component is rated overall as only partly
satisfactory.
Erosion Control along Rural Roads. The aim of the component was to finance erosion control works
along rural roads as part of microcatchment land management plans, so as to prevent runoff from roads
initiating erosion on farmers'fields. Works were to be located only at strategic points and varied from
re-shaping and gravelling to simple grading, plus the construction of small culverts, soakage pits, etc. The
component was not designed to address the problem of runoff from internal farn roads, which also proved
to be an important cause of erosion. Inplementation was the responsibility of the State's Roads
Department, DER. It started slowly due to the inexperience in handling rural roads of the DER engineers,
who were more familiar with trunk road construction. With hindsight, the total time needed to adapt an
- 6-



institution more accustomed to major civil engineering projects to making scattered, simple works appears
to have been under-estimated. There followed counterpart funding delays and incompatibilities with Bank
procurement procedures that required re-working of some aspects of the bidding process. At the mid-term
review some changes to the mix of items were found to be necessary - for instance greater need for
gravelling and less for simple grading. A system to allow beneficiaries to select the segments of rural roads
to be improved became effective and contributed to improve selection of segments to be rehabilitated and to
gain ownership for such works. Overall targets were also revised as considered appropriate following the
MTR. Smaller items were often allocated to municipalities for execution, with technical support from
DER
Outcome of this component is rated satisfactory. Despite the difficulties encountered during the initial
stage, the component eventually achieved its main objectives and physical targets: 3,385 km of grading
(111% of the MTR revised target and 87% of the SAR figure); 2,000 km of re-gravelling (116% of
revised, 88% of SAR); 3,798 improvements to intersections (76% of revised and 38% of SAR), and 11,819
culverts (98% of the unaltered SAR target). Subsequent maintenance of road works by some
municipalities has found to be poor. In such cases lack of funds, poor monitoring, and limited local skills
and motivation, have all played a part. However, DER continues to give further support to municipalities
and to encourage the formation of alliances with local residents and communities, to ensure that roads
improved by the project do not eventually revert to their original condition and that the methodology for
road rehabilitation developed under the project is further expanded with local municipal resources.
Land Use Mapping, Planning and Monitoring. The component is rated unsatisfactory. The aim of this
component was to map soil conservation and land use in 520 project microcatchments, creating capacity
for an eventual state-wide planning and monitoring system. Implementation was impeded by three
constraints: the freeze on public sector recruitment, under which the responsible unit to be created in
EPAGRI only became fully staffed in PY4; the State's decentralization which forbade the expansion of any
governnent department in the capital; and a clash between state standardization rules for the supply of
geo-processing equipment and Bank procurement procedures. The unit only became operational in PY6.
Plans for semi-detailed soil surveys in 72 microcatchments and related monitoring were scrapped.
Following the MTR, the target for thematic mapping of microcatchments at 1:50,000 was reduced from
520 to 150 while, the target of 143 climatic maps at 1:250,000 was retained. The unit was also given the
task to produce all necessary mapping and related GIS activities to support the parks subcomponent.
Regarding the mapping of the Tabuleiro Park, the objective was attained satisfactorily but somewhat late.
The two other targets were eventually attained, but the scale of microcatchment mapping was found not to
be detailed enough for farm-level planming, one of its main intended uses. More attention should have been
given at design to limiting the scale of the component to match limited implementation capacity. In future,
operations under this component should give more attention to the real mapping needs of end users.
Training. A comprehensive component aimed to train farmers and extensionists from the public and
private sectors in modem land management and soil conservation methods, as well as to boost public
awareness of conservation principles particularly among community representatives, politicians and the
general public. Training targets among farmers and the general public exceeded appraisal estimates, often
by wide margins (see Annex 1). Farmer visits to witness improved land management in action totalled
1,800. There was regular interchange of operational experience with similar projects in Brazil and
neighbouring countries. Further important outputs were manuals covering technical principles and
practices for improved land management, operation of the PROSOLO incentive fund, and engineering
guidance for the road improvement component. Training targets were often fulfilled at below estimated
costs due to more extensive use of existing State facilities. The three manuals were produced and regularly
updated to reflect accumulating implementation experience. The component was highly satisfactory.
- 7 -



Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation. A Project Unit (PU) was set up within the
Secretariat of Agriculture, answerable to a Management Committee chaired by the Secretary of
Agriculture. The PU effectively handled annual programming, budgeting, project promotion, procurement,
disbursement requirements and relations with other implementing agencies. It was an effective primary
point of contact with the Bank and directly oversaw PROSOLO and the training component. It was creative
in contributing ideas to help resolve the implementation constraints noted above. Various studies were
commissioned, including comprehensive socio-economic surveys at the start (1992), mid-term (1995) and
completion (1999) of the project, of which highlights are given as Annex 8. Main project outputs were
tracked against original SAR or revised targets. However the PU failed to develop the intended
comprehensive management information system or to establish more routine ongoing monitoring for items
such as water quality, rral road works or socio-economic trends. Overall the component is rated as
satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return of the project was estimated at appraisal as 15%, based on analysis of six
representative farm models. Models assumed that improved land management techniques would be adopted
on 35% of the productive area. Re-estimation was based on 10 models, revised to reflect changes in typical
enterprise compositions using the results of the extensive socio-economic surveys from 1992, 1995 and
1999. These confirmed that improved land management techniques had in practice been adopted on the
scale assumed at appraisal. The cost stream included all on-farm investment and operating costs, along
with component costs: only PROSOLO payments were excluded. Of off-farm and environmental benefits,
only savings in road maintenance costs were included. Due to shortcomings in enviromnental monitoring
only fragmentary data were available to estimate, for instance, benefits from reduced turbidity or bacterial
contamination of water. Other benefits that were hard to quantify - for instance from expansion of
manufacture of farm machinery, which was estimated to have created over 200 urban jobs - were also
excluded. All prices were in constant 1998 terms, appropriately adjusted to economic values. Due to the
combination of higher than planned achievements, well controlled costs, and even greater declines in farn
income without project than with, the revised overall rate of return was estimated at 20%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Crop yields both with and without project exceeded those estimated at appraisal Productivityof the main
crops was estimated to exceed without project productivity by: 50% for beans (mechanised); 35%
for soybean (mechanised); 25% for maize (animal traction); 20% for maize (animal traction and
low technology); 15% for maize (mechanised); and 20% for beans (animal traction). Without
project yields were assumed to equal those in a selection of non-project microcatchments chosen as being
least affected by spillover of innovations from project assisted microcatchments. Using constant 1998
financial prices, financial rates of return from the ten models range between 20% and 44%. Returns were
highest for milk and beef producers, intermediate for pig producers and lowest for farms dominated by crop
production. Total value of incremental output at full development was estimated as US$53 million/year, of
which livestock products account for about 80%.
This favourable picture contrasts with the real financial situation of farmers. Due to extemal factors farm
gate prices for most products have fallen by up to 40%. Average value added for all the main products of
the project area has fallen by up to 50%. In real terms, beneficiary incomes were calculated by the
boffower to have fallen by about 27% compared to pre-project levels. However, incomes of non-assisted
faiTners are estimated to have fallen by more than 40%.
- 8 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project helped to catalyse changes in the philosophy and modus operandi of Santa Catarina's rural
suppolt services and agricultural research towards more participatory approaches, increasing their
relevance and impact. It was instrumental in creating new agricultural support capacities at municipal
level. DER and municipal capacities for improvement of rural roads were enhanced. The PROSOLO
incentive programme, although extinguished at project closure, created new habits of co-operation at
microcatchment and community levels that are suitable for other development activities. There was
however less success in developing the project institutions responsible for environmental aspects.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation was at times delayed by lack of prior harmonisation between the borrower's policies and
procedures for bidding and procurement, and those of the Bank. The components for land use mapping and
monitoring, and the rural roads component both suffered delays of a few months. Financial outcome was
also affected by falling intemational prices of agricultural commodities.
5.2 Faictors generally subject to government control:
Brazil's Macro-economic adjustments, the decision by Brazil to join Mercosul, State's inability to make
incentive payments to farmers, the freezes on public sector recruitment, restrictions on the location of new
government units in the Santa Catarina state capital, as well as the municipalisation of agricultural
extension, all impeded project implementation at one time or another. However delayed release of
counterpart funds was the main cause for the two extensions of the project.
5.3 Faictors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Ineffectiveness of the State's Environmental Foundation was responsible for the inadequate preparation of
the parks component and caused large implementation delays or shortfalls for this and environmental
monitoring activities.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project cost was estimated as US$71.6 million at appraisal, with a loan size of US$33.0 million. Final cost
was US$69.6 million. The loan was fully disbursed but the borrower's counterpart contribution was
US$2.0 million below the appraisal estimate. Following the MTR, cost allocations between components
were adjusted in the light of initial implementation experience. Main changes (see para. 3.4 and Annex 2)
were increased allocations to agricultural extension, research and land use mapping. Allocations to rural
roads., forestry, environmental activities and the parks component were reduced. Due to cumulative delays,
mostly the result of Federal or State government decisions outside the control of the implementers,
disbursement was extended twice, for six and then a further 15 months.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationaleforsustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated "highly likely". The project has successfully promoted innovative
participatory approaches, to upgrade land management practices among farmers and rural communities.
These have accelerated the introduction of improvements that reduce cash costs and labour requirements,
give early increases in farn productivity, and improve the chances for farmers of staying in business and on
their land in an increasingly unfavourable trading environment. Technology promoted by the project is now
a standard part of more profitable and sustainable farming systems. The organisational approaches have
become central to the modus operandi of the technical and social assistance services. Habits of
co-operation required from farmers to participate in PROSOLO have endured because they have proved to
be of wider utility for rural development programmes. The external benefits generated by the project, in
-9-



terms of reduced road maintenance costs, decreased soil losses, lowered water treatment costs and reduced
bacterial and chemical contamination of water supplies, are welcomed by local and State authorities. They
have saved public money and at times been able to exploit such benefits to increase their political
popularity. For these reasons the technical, institutional and social changes supported by the project are
judged highly sustainable.
The immediate challenge for the state is to encourage farmers to stay on their land in the deteriorating
macro-economic situation that they now face and, in so doing, maintain the external environmental benefits
arising from the improvements in land management that they have adopted. Smaller farmers, along with the
landless, are those most likely to be affected by firther acceleration of the rural exodus. The focus of a
future operation should not only be on the economic benefits of addressing the rising impoverishment of
these rural people. Equally important will be to maintain and expand the external environmental benefits
that, as the project has shown, can flow from better management of land and water resources. More
rigorous measurement is now needed of the extemal benefits to the national economy that such a
two-pronged approach can bring, in the form of reduced environmental degradation and improved
sustainability. The main elements needed for on-farm support are now in place but there remains a need to
further improve Santa Catarina's capacity for environmental programme implementation and monitoring.
Assessment of progress in improving the profitability of farming should be coupled with better
identification, and especially quantification, of extemalities which should provide a substancial justification
for further lending. The aim of a follow-up operation should be of safeguarding the environmental gains
made by the present project through addressing the growing impoverishment of Santa Catarina's farmers.
In any future operation, the past abrupt fluctuations in counterpart funding must be avoided.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Following the mid-term review of the project, the state extension agency adopted the project's technical and
organization strategy as key elements of its overall strategic planning. Similarly, the state's rual road
department has fully adopted the project's approach and methodology to rural road rehabilitation as part of
its normal operation while the State's environmental agency is taking the participatory approach to park
management developed under the project for as a model for other conservation units in the state.
In addition, the successful implementation of the project-induced microcatchment strategy in Santa
Catarina, and in its predecesor project in Parana, has become a reference of excellence for a number of
countries and for the Bank staff who have carried out a large number of study tours to these States. Two
other states (Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul) are already implementing microcatchment development
strategies under two state Bank-financed projects based on lession leamed from Parana and Santa Catarina
projects. This strategy is also becoming a reference for the national water basin development strategy
being prepared by the Federal Ministry of the Enviroment and for the State of Rio de Janeiro
Microcatchment Development Program now being prepared by the Secretary of Agriculture of Rio de
Janeiro.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank provided strong identification andpreparation support from the FAO-CP, including the services
of the specialist previously responsible for FAO technical assistance to Brazil for improved land
management. Therefore, Bank's performance in these stages is rates "satisfactory". Design assistance built
on the experience of previous soil conservation initiatives in the State and elsewhere (including in other
countries), accumulating research results, and Parana's Land Management Project, prepared previously
also with FAO-CP support.
- 10 -



Bank appraisal stressed the provision of cost-sharing incentives to farmers to make their initial
commitments to changes in land management, and institutional arrangements, especially at field level, to
mobilise collective and individual commitments to change. Macro-economic reforms, including the freezes
on public sector recruitment, had not been mooted at the time so were not taken into account, but the risk of
a shortfall in counterpart funding was flagged. In the interest of making the project's main components
effective, and in the face of political pressures for it to be included, less attention than desirable was given
at appraisal to the parks component. Bank's performance is rates "satisfactory".
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was considered by the borrower to be particularly effective. Supervision missions
provided the skills needed at the right times, staffing continuity, and were proactive in resolving the many
serious obstacles to implementation that occurred. They played a creative role in devising solutions with
the borrower and provided advocacy in securing their approval by senior government decision-makers.
They were not, however, able to secure waivers for some of the Bank's bidding and procurement
procedures, which posed particular problems for projects in Brazil at the time. Supervision reports give
accurate assessments of progress and constraints. Supervision forms were found to be realistic, with
sufficient attention to the development objectives. Bank's performance is rates "highly satisfactory".
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above consideration, the overall performance of the Bank is rated "satisfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Staff of the Secretariat for Rural Development and Agriculture (SRDA) played a leading part in project
preparation, for which the Bank also provided support from the FAO-CP. By the time of appraisal there
was a good understanding among senior staff of SRDA and most other main implementing agencies of the
project objectives, technical strategy for improved land management and erosion control, and
implementation requirements. This understanding was not altogether shared at a higher, political, level
where there were frequent changes among Secretaries and other decision-makers. The Borrower's
performance in terms of quality of project preparation was found to be "satisfactory".
7.5 Government implementation performance:
There were three changes of State government over the course of project implementation and many changes
of the Secretary of Agriculture, to whom the project management reported. At this time these high-level
individuals, who were for the most part responsible for setting the policy framework governing the project,
were often confronting major macro-economic issues related to the financial crises through which Brazil
was passing. They took, or were forced into, many of the decisions hat interfered with implementation
such recruitment restrictions and constraints on counterpart funding etc.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
That the project, although delayed, eventually reached so many of its objectives can be attributed largely to
stable and competent staffing of the Project Unit and of the units in all other implementing agencies.
Despite the numerous changes at higher levels, there was only one change of Project Manager and some
other k-ey members of the PU and implementing agencies remained involved from project identification until
closure. They were consistently comnmitted to, and creative in, overcoming obstacles and keeping actions
moving. Despite the PU's failure to set up a formal management information system, it complied
successfully with requirements for presentation of plans, expenditure statements and audit reports.
- 1I1 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are the principal lessons learned from the Brazil - Santa Catarina - Land Management II
Project. These lessons, as well as the project's outcome, are fully consistent with those of its predecesor, the
Parana Land Management I Project, Loan 3018-BR) which closed in March 31, 1997. In addition to
these, themes of a more specific nature (component-related themes) are presented in Appendix I.
* To be successful, investments in soil conservation must be based on technical changes that bring
reognisable and early productivity benefits to farmers. In this project, technologies with an immediate
impact were the most widely adopted, spreading outside as well as inside the project area, while
technologies that give benefits only after considerable time was adopted at a slower rate. Even when
attractive technical potential exists, it may be necessary initially for govemments to share with farmers
the cost of introducing new resource management techniques. Such incentives are justified - and not
necessarily a subsidy - where on-farm changes generate significant public goods, in the form of
decreased soil loss, control of pollution and other environmental benefits.
* the project benefited from a combination of factors that are not commonly found, so although an
important source of lessons is unlikely to be widely replicable without adaptation. Floods some years
previously had convinced farmers that their existing land management practices were deficient; twenty
years of accumulated research and outside technical assistance had demonstrated that viable altemative
technology existed; and national policies had recently been introduced to focus public sector technical
assistance to farmers on individual microcatchments, that were the natural planning unit for improved
land management.
3 Despite such favourable factors, the project shows that extensive training and re-training, emphasising
group and participatory approaches, maybe necessary before the "rnindsets" of many public (and even
private) sector research and extension staff are fully adjusted to a participatory project approach to soil
and water conservation.
* Skilled and creative project implementation staff, working closely with receptive Bank supervision
teams skilled in topics currently needing attention, are important for countering the sorts of constraints
to implementation that macro-economic adjustment commonly raises. Willingness by Bank project
staff to be flexible and patient, including agreeing to project extension if necessary, are crucial in this
respect.
*  The project has demonstrated that through improved land management there are important extemal
benefits that may justify further lending in this sub-sector. However, future project design should
ensure the inclusion of adequate socio-economic and environmental monitoring activities to provide the
necessary basis to quantify these extemalities.
* Ihere is a great potential for the microcatchment natural resource management projects to grow into
more comprehensive rural development programs. This transformation is likely to occur when social
and institutional actions are added to the existing natural conditions at the microcatchment to ensure
better agro-environmental conditions of production.
- 12 -



*   The methodology and logic of the microcatchment natural resource management projects in the
southem Brazil, have great potential to create new forms of cooperation and trust amongst the
beneficiaries of a respective microcatchment. It could also stimulate other social initiatives towards
more complex rural development strategies. The cases of Parana and Santa Catarina are paradigms of
these developments; these social initiatives have been built and are on-going in many rural
municipalities of those two states as one of the most noted result of the projects implemented in these
states.
* Extension staff plays a key role in the irnplementation of the microcatchment strategy. In these two
states, it was evident the role of the extension workers in areas where the project was more successful
(i.e., the "training" dimension is absolutely crucial); in those areas it was also evident the existance of a
good inter-institutional coalition, where the local government played a key role. In fact in the absence
of an active participation of the local govemment, project results tend to be less expressive.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower notes with satisfaction and concurs with the findings of the project's Implementation
Completion Report that the project has met its overall and specific objectives and that the project has been
a key element in addressing Santa Catarina's agricultural and nrual enviromental problems. However, they
also recognize that in spite of the good progress made so far, resolution of these issues will require
substantial additional work in the near future. Therefore, the Borrower has requested Bank support for a
follow-up operation.
The Government appreciates that, with the collaboration of the Word Bank, it was possible to successfully
implement the project and reverse the State's declining agricultural productivity trends due to severe land
degradation at a time when society was increasingly more sensitive to agricultural-induced environmental
degradation. Brazil was also facing serious financial difficulties and agricultural world market prices were
falling. In addition, and due to increasing trade globalization, farmers in Santa Catarina, mostly family
farmers, were under heavy pressure to improve competitiveness and minimize production environmental
impacts; the project was quite instrunental on this endeavor.
The Borrower notes thatthe Bank's performance was highly satisfactory in all phases of the project. Since
project inception, the Bank has made available well equipped missions with vastly experienced consultants.
This has contributed to the establishment of an effective and efficient technical strategy to attend the State's
needs. [t has also helped to improve the States project design.
It further appreciated that supervision missions visited the state at least twice a year. Without losing sight
of the difficulties faced by the Borrower, missions were able to assist the coordinating team to ensure that
emerging problems were not left unresolved. The Borrower points out the important role and effort of the
Word Bank missions, in seeking altemative ways to facilitate State compliance with counterpart funding in
particular during periods of State and country financial crisis.
The Borrower recognized that through strong efforts of the well equipped Bank missions, issues related to
road rehabilitation and environmental components (park administration, water monitoring and pig/fish
production system) were discussed with beneficiaries, and executing agencies and recommendations made
to ensure achievement of objectives and targets. Those impediments would have threatened overall project
performance if left unresolved.
- 13 -



One problem highlighted by the Borrower was the Bank's complex requirements for hiring services and/or
bidding good and works, which are not always in accordance with current local procurement procedures.
In the Borrower's view, this procedures required enormous effort, and to some extend contributed to delays
in executing the mapping and the roads components. They noted that without ignoring the seriousness of
the subject, alternatives should be sought to better accept and adapt local guidelines.
The Borrower notes that the main focus of the project was to address the serious environmental problems
affecting the rural areas by reversing the process of soil and water degradation with the objective of
establishing sustainable production systems. Project results from the Borrowers ex-ante, mid-term and
ex-post evaluations indicate significant reduction in soil erosion in benefited microcatchments due mainly to
farmers' better understanding and adoption of project induced conservation practices. These measures
provided substantial productivity gains and humanization of farmers' field works.
The Borrower stressed also the importance of the incentive system. Construction of esterqueiras (manure
piles) aim at handling animal waste, have controlled pollution and provided an alternative for improving
the chemical, physical and biological quality of soils, through organic fertilization. Research studies are
being continued to provide answers on soils' capacity to receive different loads of organic fertilizer without
contaminating the environment, especially the water table. It also highlights the construction of collective
toxic waste storage units, which allowed removal of such waste from farms to be deposited in a common
place. This action should now be complemented with recycling efforts to dispose of this material.
The Borrower noted the importance of the environmental sanitation activities in rural homes added during
project implementation, which were complemented with major efforts on environmental education in
schools and the community. This work, promoted broader discussion of environmental issues at farm
fmily, community and municipal levels. Continuation of these activities carried out with participation of
stakeholders are now being aimed at preparing proposals for the development of economic alternatives for
sustainable use of natural resources, including ecotourism and agroecology in the buffer zones of the State
park supported under the project. The Borrower noted also the importance of the ongoing work to
complete the State's park zoning which should enable the definitive implementation of such park in the
immediate future.
The Borrower stressed the fact that the project was a dynramic force in organizing farmer groups which
should evolved, and in a number of cases are already evolving, into new forms of organization needed for a
more general rural development strategy. Especial mention is given to the experience gained from the
creation of the Intermunicipal Council for the Implementation of the State Park, which is now a strong
independent association representative of diverse segments of society working hand by hand with State
government entities for the final implementation of the State Park.
It also noted the important contribution of the project to the modernization of the State research and rural
extension organization. Influenced by the philosophy of the project's microcatchment work, the mission of
this organization is now centered on the sustainable development of rural Santa Catarina. In addition, the
preparation of draft laws for the State conservation system and the pro-ecology tax now under discussion
by the Legislature will facilitate implementation of State conservation units. The Govenmment appreciates
the active interactions promoted under the project between government agencies (state and municipal) and
civil society to seek definitive implementation of the State park and of other sustainable development
activities; this work has definitively change the modus operandi of State institutions.
The Borrower concluded that it is clear that the set of project interventions was essential in creating the
bases for sustainable agriculture in Santa Catarina. While recognizing that its benefits must be sustain
- 14 -



over time, it noted that the problems that currently afflict rural communities extrapolate the project's
original scope and objectives, making it necessary to continue and expand the project scope with a
follow-up operation. A number of recent studies shows that rural areas are undergoing a process of
impoverishment and that rural families, who lack prospects for improved living conditions, are migrating to
cities, thereby increasing the number of slum-dwellers in urban areas. The State Government is using its
own resources and programs to seek alternatives to revitalize the rural sector, but is also asking for Bank
financing for a follow-up Microcatchment II Project, to ensure better rural living conditions, by means of
social, economic and environmental development.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not relevant
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not relevant
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Input Indicators                   Unit                T    tT           |    Actual
Apprals      | MldTerm
Adaptive Researck
- New meteorological stations                     Unit               4              4              4
- Meteorological Stations re-equipped             Unit               5              5              5
- Soil laboratory expanded                        Unit               1              1               1
- Research station expanded                       Unit               I              I               1
- Seed processing unit                            Unit               1              1               1
Land Use Mapping, Planning and Monitoring
- Data processing equipment                        Set               1              1               1
- Geoprocessing mapping methodology prep.     jUnit   j                              1  .
Runl Extension
- Total extensionists                             Unit             256            316            422
- Total public sector extensionists               Unit              147           207            353
- Total private sector extensionists              Unit              109           109             69
- Environmental and Sanitation Education
Schools Assisted                                Unit                           4,000          5,229
Soil Conservation Fund
- Group investments financed                  |   Unit                             . ..         3,600
- Individual investments financed                 Unit   |. |.                                 43,280
Forestry Development and Natural Resources Protection
(a) Commercial and Conservation Reforestation
New  rivate nurseries in operation                unit              130           140            137
- Commercial reforestation Area                    Ha            40,780        30,000          41,600
- Conservation reforestation Area                  Ha    |       12,136         6,000           8,900
(b) Envorceenent of Environmental Law
- Periodic water sampling Microcatchments
Attended                                       Unit             520              12             16
- Collection points                               Unit           2,940             36             48
(c) Parks and Biological Reserves
- Land recovery discrimination process            Unit               8              8               8
- Area                                             Ha           88,734         87,400          87,400
- Consbuctions                                    M2             1,485            ....            ....
- Fencing                                          M             7,535          7,200            300
- Power Line                                       M             3,150          3,150           1,600
Admiristration, Monitoring and Evaluation
- Evaluation (ex ante, m-t, ex-post)              Unit   |           3  ]           3              3
Training
- Guidelines for DER-SC                           Unit               1              1               1
-Operational Manual for SC Fund                   Unit               1              1               1
-Technical Manual                                 Unit                       1        1             1
- Orientation training for non-farmers
4-5 day seminars                                Unit             26             26           8,306
- Number oftrainees                               Unit             536            516         155,763
-Farmertraining -day fieldtipsri                  Unit           1,112          1,280           1,809
- Training for projeet technicians
3-106daycourses                                 Unit             56             139            120
-Number of trainees                               Unit           1,220          2,919           2,594
-90-120daystudytoursabroad                        Unit              14             14               1
-Number of trainees                               Unit              26             26               5
-Consultacy_____
- consultant time                           Im-month              40             40             3.8
- number of consultants                         Unit               5              5              7
- 16 -



Output Indicators          Unit    Appraisal      Mid Term      Actual/Latest
I         |  Taget    Review Target    Estimate
Project Area
- Microcatchments attended:
New                            Unit   520                 534             534
Cumulative                     Unit   537                 551             551
-Related area (new)                Ha     1,855,500     1,85S 500       2,428,000
Adaptive Research
- Trails on project-related themes  Unit   89                 127            127
- Trails on soil and crop nutrition  Unit    8                  8             33
- Trails on mechanization         Unit   47                   47              68
- Trails on agrometeorology       Unit   13                   13               9
- Green manure basic seed         Ton    184.2              260.0           203.4
prcduction
Land Use Mapping, Planning and  [onitoring
- Climatic maps (1:250,000)       MC       143                143            143
- 'Various thematic maps (1:50,000)  MC   520                 150            150
- Seni-detailed soil surveys      MC      72                    0              0
-Land Use monitoring              MC      72                   0               0
- State Park thematic map         Unit   0                      1              1
(1:-50,000)
Rural Extension
- Microcatchment plans            Unit   520                 534             508
- Individual fann plans           Unit   56,600            57,000          44,000
- 1otal Fanners attended a/       Unit   80,900            82,000         106,000
- Municipalities attended         Unit   143                 206             206
- No-tillage area                  Ha     --                  --          245,100
-Minimun-tillage area              Ha     ---                 ---         151,500
- Soil conserv. Mechanical practices  Ha  240,000         240,000         785,000
-_Basic sanitation
Water source protection        Unit   0                 14,400          13,554
Domestic water treatment       Unit   0                  6,400          8,002
Domestic waste deposits        Unit   0                  7,000          2,474
- Enviromnmental and Sanitation
Education Schools Reached       Unit   0                92,000         123,843
Soil Conservation Fund
(a) CoHectively owned subprojects   5_952
- Various equipment               Unit   5,952              5,952          11,385
- roxic waste disposal pits       Unit   520                  140            384
_Agrochemical mixing water points    Unit   520                80            382
(b) Individually owned subprojects
- Animal waste fermentation tanks  Unit   3,985             4,000           5,694
- areen manure seeds              Ton    1,842               750            1,213
- Soil conservation works          Ha      156,000         65,000         111,200
- Commercial reforestation         Ha     40,780           30,000           7,746
Total Fund-Benefit Farmers        Unit    0                     0          30,000
Erosion Control Along Rural Roads
-Microcatchtnents benefited    ]  Unit   520                 400             406
[ [mprovement of running surface
- 17 -



INDICATOR                             Unit    Without      |-With Project
I  Project
DIRECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS
- Revenues of Average Farm
- On-farm gross revenues              US$        25,029             25,613
- Production costs                    US$        11,407             13,319
- Net revenues with project           US$        13,622             12,294
- Net revenues without project        US$        13,622
- Labor Requirements              ________699
- On-farm labor                     Mdfyear         822      i         699
- Yields
- Crops a/
- Maize A                            kg/ha        3,000              3,600
- Maize B                            kg/ha        3,600              4,500
- Maize C                            kg/ha        4,500              5,200
- Beans B                            kg/ha        1,080               1,300
- Beans C                            kg/ha        1,200      1        1,800
- Soybean C                          kg/ha        2,000              2,700
a/ Without project reflects data from field survey and not appraisal data. See Economic
Analysis
A = animal traction and low technology; B = animal traction; C = mechanized
- Livestock
- Beef cattle: killing age           Days         1,300              1,038
Killing weight                       kg           328                293
Average daily weight gain       l                 252                282
- Dairy cattle: milk prod./cow/year   kg    T    1,078               1,743
- Pigs: killing weight at 6 months  I   kg    1      98                104
- Benefits from reduced erosion (***)
- Solids in MC rivers                MG/i           400                112
- Average soil losses in project area  t/year       6.0               4.74
- Total fertilizer losses from erosion in
project area                       ttyear                           39.5
50.0
- Total losses from erosion in project
area                               US$/ha                            31.6
._______________________________ __________ 40.0
-Coliform worms m MC rivers         Mg/100l         4,9                13,0
-MC river water treatment costs    R$/month       3,600               1,800
(***) Data from Lajeado S. Josd microcatchment (Chapsec6)
- Benefits from reduced contamination
Intoxication by agrochemicals
- light intoxication (% of producers)  %           28.1             12.2
- med. Intoxication (% of producers)   %            5.9             3.6
- serious intoxication (% of producers)  %           0              0.1
-Rural Roads
- Road maintenance                  US$/km          945              151
- road trafficable under any weather
condition                           %            ....      l     35.8
- 18-



Output Indicators               Unit     Projected in   Actual/Latest
last PSR 1/    Estimate
Project Area
-Microcatchments attended:
New                                       unit         534           534
Cumulative                                unit         551           551
-Related area (new)                         ha        1,855,500      2,428,000
Adaptive Research
-Trials on project-related themes           unit         127           127
-Trials on forest husbandry                 unit          8             33
-Trials on soil and crop nutrition          unit         47             68
-Trials on mechanization                    unit         13             9
-Trials on agrometeorology                  unit         21             27
-Green manure basic seed production         ton         260.0         203.4
Land Use Mapping, Planning and
Monitoring
-Climatic maps (1:250,000)                  MC           143           143
-Various thematic maps (1:50,000)           MC           150           150
-State Park thematic map (1:50,000)         unit          1             1
Rural extension
-Microcatchment plans                       unit         534           508
-Individual farm plans                      unit        57,000        44,000
-Municipalities attended                    unit         206           206
-No-fillage area                            ha           n.a.        245,100
-Minimum-tillage area                       ha           n.a.        151,500
-Soil conserv. mechanical practices         ha         240,000       785,000
-Basic sanitation
Water source protection                   unit        14,400        13,554
Domestic water treatment                  unit        6,400         8,002
Domestic waste deposits                   unit        17,000        20,587
Domestic cesspits                         unit        7,000         2,474
Soil Conservation Fund
(a) Collectively owned suboroiects
- 1 9 -



-Various equipment                          unit        5,952         11,385
-Toxic waste disposal pits                  unit         140           384
-Agrochemical mixing water points           unit         80            332
(b) Individually owned subprojects
-Animal waste fermentation tanks            unit        4,000         5,694
-green mnanure seeds                        ton          750           1,213
-Soil conservation works                    ha          65,000        111,200
-Commercial reforestation                   ha          30,000        7,746
Erosion control along rural roads
Sub-grade reshaping                       km          3,040         3,385
With regravelling                         km           975          2,324
-Intersections with:
Farn roads                                unit        10,000        3,798
Terraces                                  unit         780           103
-Surface nunoff control:
Pipe culverts                             unit        12,000        11,819
Flood control tanks                       unit        9,000          528
Forestry development and natural resources
protection
-Creation Park Committee                    unit          1             1
-TORs for Park Zoning                       unit          1             1
-Park-centred environmental education       unit          1             1
program
-Water monitoring in Park area              unit          1             1
1/ Revised Targets at Mid-Terrn Review.
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Adaptive Research                                      5.20            6.70           127
Land Use Mapping                                       3.30            4.80           142
Rural Extension                                       17.40           21.00           121
Soil conservation Fund                                9.00             8.80            9'3
Rural Roads                                           21.10           16.60            76
Forestry Development and Nat. Res. Protection          8.30            4.80            57
Adminiistration                                        4.00            5.30           113
Training                                               3.30            1-60            47
Total Baseline Cost                                   71.60           69.60
Total Project Costs              71.60            69.60
_              Total Financing Required               71.60           69.60              =
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Pro4JIF
ER4Itiareewte~~~~~~wy              .      Otbr>  "~~r .               ,.P.
1. Works                    0.00         18.10         4.00         0.00         22.10
(0.00)      (8.10)        (1.80)      (0.00)        (9.90)
2. Goods                    0.40          2.20         0.00         0.00         2.60
_______________________    (0.40)      (0.80)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         2.10         0.00         2.10
Technical Assistance &      (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)       (1.30)
Training                                                                          _
4. Grants                    0.00         0.00         8.80         0.00         8.80
(0.00)      (0.00)        (6.30)       (0.00)       (6.30)
5. Operating Costs          0.00          0.00        36.00         0.00         36.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (14.30)       (0.00)       (14.30)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.40         20.30        50.90        0.00         71.60
(0.40)       (8.90)      (23.70)       (0.00)       (33.00)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        0.00           15.70         0.00           0.00           15.70
(0.00)        (8.50)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (8.50)
2. Goods                        0.00           2.50           0.30          0.00           2.80
(0.00)         (1.20)        (0.30)        (0.00)          (1.50)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           1.40          0.00           1.40
Technical Assistance &         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.80)        (0.00)          (0.80)
Training
4. Grants                       0.00           0.00           8.20          0.00           8.20
(0.00)        (0.00)         (6.50)        (0.00)          (6.50)
5. Operating Costs              0.00           0.00          41.50          0.00           41.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (15.70)         (0.00)        (15.70)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                           0.00
()             0 O    0                     0            (0.00)
Total                        0.00           18.20         51.40          0.00           69.60
(0.00)         (9.70)       (23.30)         (0.00)        (33.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b Com  onent (in US$ million equivalent)
*y.a ... ......w.... w.n.w.                                               t*
Research                 2.00      3.00      5.20       2.10      4.50      6.70    105.0  150.0  128.8
Mapping                  1.70       1.60     3.30       2.60      2.20      4.80    152.9  137.5  145.5
Extension                6.40      11.00     17.40      7.00      14.00     21.00    109.4  127.3  120.7
SC Fund                  6.30      2.70      9.00       7.00      1.80      8.80    111.1  66.7   97.8
Roads                    9.50      11.60     21.10      8.90      7.70      16.60    93.7   66.4   78.7
Forestry & Nat. Res.     3.80      4.50      8.30       2.80      2.00      4.80     73.7   44.4   57.8
Protection
Administration           1.40      2.60      4.00       1.70      3.60      5.30    121.4  138.5  132.5
Training                 1.90       1.40     3.30       0.90      0.70      1.60    47.4   50.0   48.5
Total                    33.00     38.60     71.60     33.00      36.50    69.60    100.0  94.6   97.2
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
I. SAR Estimates
1.    The estimated Economic Rate of Return at appraisal was 15%. Six rainfed farm models
representing the river basins with major concentration of microcatchment were analysed to test the impact
of the improved land management and soil conservation practices on the yield of major crops and
corresponding farm incomes.
2.    Financial Rates of Return of the models before financing and subsidies ranged from 17% to 32%.
Expected average incremental annual farm benefits resulting from project-introduced practices were
estimated to vary from US$ 285 (21 ha farm with cassava, maize and tobacco) to US$ 3,325 (65 ha farm
with Soybean, wheat and Maize). In the without project situation, a declining trend in productivity for the
main crops ranging from 5 to 10% per year was assumed. In the with project situation, the projected
increase in crop yields above project levels under the various farming systems ranged from 15% for
tobacco to 27-31% for cassava, onion and soybean, 36% for wheat and 43% to 50% for beans and maize.
3.    The project was designed to directly/indirectly assist some 520 microcatchments covering 1.8
million ha of farmland with 80,900 farmers. The average adoption rate used for the economic evaluation of
the proposed project was 35% for the total area under annual crop which is equivalent to 240,000 ha.
Ii. Revised Estimates at Completion
4.     Adoption rates and beneficiaries. The economic re-evaluation of Land Management II Project -
Santa Catarina is based on the revised adoption rates using data from 3 field surveys by ICEPA carried out
in 1991 (SAR), 1995 (intermediate evaluation) and 1998 (ICR) on a total of 1430 farms covering 224
microcatchments. The resulting number of beneficiaries increased from 80,900 at project appraisal to
106,000 at completion. Project beneficiaries estimates revised at completion are shown in table 1.
Table 1. Project Direct Beneficiaries
Year        1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998
Cumulative    8.050      19.440     38.280     47.490     58.480     75.420     95.100    106.000
beneficiaries
Inremental    8.050      11.390     18.840     9.210      10.990     16.940     19.680     10.900
benficiaries
5.     The agricultural prices and farm income evolution. A  socioeconomic analysis carried out by
ICEPA on a sample of 1,386 producers highlighted a negative evolution of farm income in the project
area. The results are shown in table 2.
- 23 -



Table 2. Farm income evolution in the project area (in '000 1998 RS)
Initial survey (1991) Mid-tenn survey (1995)  Final survey (1998)
Type of agricultural _______
activity     Average   Average   Average   Average   Average   Average
value of    value    value of    value    value of    value
production   added   production   added   production   added
Animal husadry        26,22      19,01     13,40      9,17     14,06      9,00
(cattle)          _ _ _ _ _                                 _ _ _ _
Animal husbadry       134,11     53,21     62,88     22,28     89,52     26,45
(swine)           _____
Cereals               25,12      17,67     20,47     13,98     20,08     13,22
Vegetables            44,26     39,85      28,22     22,98     31,68     26,76
Mixed                  15,15      9,67     15,92      9,84     16,76     10,08
Source: CEPA, Santa Catarina
Results show a declining trend in both the value of production and value added. This decline can be
explained by the trend in the main real term agricultural prices shown in table 3.
Table 3. Agricultural prices (in constant 1998 R$)
unit       1991        1995        1998
Outputs
Milk                   Litre       0.32        0.19        0.19
Pork meat          Kg liveweight    1.92       1.20        2.43
Cow meat               unit        651         423         439
Beans                60 kg bag     52.51      28.93         37
Maize                60 kg bag     13.56       6.70        7.69
Soybean              60 kg bag     16.86      10.81       15.75
Inputs
Urea                 50 kg bag     27.34      14.67        14.4
Lime                    ton        1.73        1.25        1.28
Superphosphate       50 kg bag     20.11       9.67       12.13
(simple)           I
Source: CEPA, Santa Catarina
Table 3 shows a decline in all agricultural prices between 1991 and 1998 with the exception of
port meat. The decline in farm income is mainly due to the effects of the trade liberalization
causing declining producer prices.
6.      Farm models. For the preparation of the SAR, six different fann models were developed which at
the time were considered to be representative of the prevailing and future farming systems in the project
area. The monitoring activity of the project however has shown that these models do not adequately reflect
the existing and improved farming systems in the project area. For this reason, the ICR adopted 10 farm
models which were defined on the basis of three field surveys canried out by ICEPA and mentioned in para
4 On the whole, the surveys' sample covered a total of 224 of the 554 total microcatchments in the project
area and 1430 producers out of an initially estimated total of 87,265 (see Appendix 1 for crop budgets and
cropping patterns).
-24 -



7.      Crop yields estimates differ significantly between SAR and ICR. The latter are derived from the
three field survey carried out at project appraisal, intermediate evaluation and ICR respectively. The SAR
assumptions and the ICR estimates are shown in table 4.
Table 4. Yield estimates for SAR and ICR
SAR yields (k Iha/year)                              ICR yelds (dvear)
Crops     Without project  With project  lcrem       Crops     Without project  With project  Increi
Maize A        Not included   Not included            Maize A           3,000           3,600       20%
Maize B           2,400        3,300-3,400    41%    Maize B            3,600           4,500       25%
Beans B            660            850         28%    Beans B            1,080           1,300       20%
Tobacco B         1,650           1,850        12%    Tobacco B       not included   not included    -
Cassava B        14,000          16,000       14%    Cassava B        not included   not incblded    -
Soybean C         1,650          2,100        27%    Soybean C          2,000          2,700        35%
Wheat C           1,300           1,700       30%    Wheat C          not included   not included    -
Maize C           2,650           3,650       37%/    Maize C           4,500           5,200       15%
Beans C            850            1,150       35%    Beans C             1,200          1,800       50%
A: Animnal traction and low technology; B: Animal traction; C: Mechanised
8.     Estimated benefits from productive components. The incremental production generated by the
project estimated according to farm models is presented in table 5.
Table 5. Total project incremental production of major crops and animal husbandry
WITH OUT              WITH
CROP      UNIT         PROJECT             PROJECT       INCREMENTS
Maize        Ton                805.143          1.025.225        220.081
Soda        Ton                  10.787            17.001           6.214
Beans       Ton                  67.036            38.404         -28.631
Catte       Head                 14.547            29.538          14.990
Swines      Head              1.784.354          2.138.024        353.670
Milc     I'000 litres           377.811           420.587          42.776
9.     Incremental Production  The total value of production at full development (year 9) has
been estimated at US$ 53 million with beans showing a decline of US$ 15.8 million.
Approximately 80% of incremental production comes from animal husbandry products.
-25 -



Table 6. Value of Incremental Production
WTEHOUT
CROP           PROJECT    WITH PROJECT  INCREMENTS
Maize                        93.1              118.6                25.5
Soja                          2.6                4.1                 1.5
Beans                        36.8               21.0               -15.8
Cattle                        5.8               11.9                 6.1
Swine                       143.1              171.5                28.4
64.3              71.6                 7.3
Total                       345.8              398.8                  53
10.     Estimated benefits from  non-productive components.  Non-productive benefits include all
benefits which are not described in para. 8 and 9. These include reduced loss of topsoil, reduced
maintenance of roads, improved water quality, reduced risk of floods and development of an agricultural
machinery industry. Of these indirect benefits, only those related to reduced road maintenance were
assessed and accounted for in the analysis. Estimates of these savings are shown in Table 7. Average
reduction in road maintenance cost associated with improved road conditions is derived from a field study
carried out by the project implementation agency (ICEPA).
Table 7. Savings in Road Maintenance
Unit  1991   199      1993    1994    1995    1996    1997     1998      199      2000-
2015
Km              Km        0       0      138     187    416      806     218      704       916        0
implemented
annunal                __
Km              Km        0       0      138    325      741    1547    1765     2469       3385    3385
implemented
cumulated
Average amual US$/km    397     397     397      397     397     397     397      397        397     397
maintance
cost reduction
per Iam
Average annual Constant 476,4   476,4   476,4   476,4   476,4   476,4   476,4    476,4     476,4   476,4
maintenance    1998
cost reduction    RS/km
per km__                                                                           _   __   _  _   _   _
Savinp In roed  1991 R    0 (     0  65.743  154.830 353.012 736.991  840.846  1.176.232  1.612.614 1.612.614
maintenance             _
11.     Financial Prices, Rates of Return  and Net benefits.  All financial prices are expressed in
constant 1998 R$ (see appendix 1). In order to account for seasonal fluctuations, financial prices are
average monthly farngate prices for the twelve month of 1998. Analyses show financial rates of retum
ranging from 19.5% to 44%. Net annual farm benefits from the main crops which before project
implementation varied from US$ 250 to US$ 14,580 increased to a range of US$ 850 to US$ 17,250 at
year 9 of the project. Net benefits and FRR are shown in table 8.
- 26 -



Table 8. Farm models. Incremental Net Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
Models                  Farn size    Farm size   Net benefits  Net benefits   FRR
Without   With project   Without   With project
project         _          project
Milk and maize - mechanised -             51            42             2,830         4,100   44%
Milk and maize - animal traction -        37            21             2,000          2,350  30.2%
Milk and maize - animal traction and      21            19               630           850  19.5%
low technology -
Swne and Maize - mechamised -             35            35             5,590         8,420  22.5%
Swine and Maize - aniinal traction -      17           25               1,980        3,720  30.2%
Swine and Maize - animal traction and     18            10               780           900   21%
low technology -
Cattle - medium technology -         Non existing       55               600          1,450  40.4%
Milk and swine - high technology          12            28              2,680         7,340  26.5%
Milk and swine - medium technology        4             21               250          2,850  23.3%
Swine - high technology -                 11            21             14,580        17,260   20%/o
12.     Project Costs. Capital costs in the economic analysis are derived from actual total disbursement
per year. Capital cost is in current US dollar disbursed by year converted into 1998 US dollar using USA
Consumer Price Index as shown in table 9. Capital cost from year 1 to 9 includes operating and
rmaintenance costs. Project maintenance and operating costs from year 10 to 15 have been estimated at US$
3.9 million per year for follow up activities of implementing agencies.
Table 9. Project Costs
COSTS   UNIT          1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999
Project     Cuffent     1.-01.6  4.665.3    6.031.3   9.399.3   14.SS5.3   12.20S.7   8.302.0   7.73S.1   4.969.0
cost       USS 000                           _      .
Credh       Current          0       235      237.5     670.9    1.682.2   1.558.8   2.062.1   2.289.S     144.4
c"mnonent  USS '000
Project     Curent      1.801.6   4.641.8   5.793.8    8.728.4  13.203.1   10.649.9   6.239.9   5.448.3   4.S24.6
costeskm    USS'O000
credit     _ _  _ __                                             __ _                                   _ _  _
Inflator                   1,22      1,17      1,14      1,10      1,08      1,05       1,02      1,00      0,99
Proeiet    Constant   2.197.952  5.430.906  6.604.932  9.601.240 14259.348 11.182.395  6.364.698  5.448300  4.725.106
cots--       1996
adju ed    us$, 000                                           ______    _____________        ______    ____2_
-27 -



III. Economic and sensitivity analysis.
13.   The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be 20% over a 15 years period as compared
to ERR estimated at appraisal of 15% (see appendix Ishowing the results of the FARMOD simulation).
The cost stream of the economic analysis is based on the following elements: (a) all on-farm investnent and
operating costs are estimated for every farm model on a per hectare basis for the development of 254,000
ha resulting from an adoption rate of 35% on the total area under annual crop within the project area; (b)
all project costs were adjusted as described in para. 10 and table 9 (the soil conservation fund was not
included in project total costs); (c) all prices are 1998 constant prices; economic prices of main traded
goods and inputs (maize, soybean, UREA) were derived taking into account international border prices,
freight, insurance, port handling, intemal transport and processing (see appendix 1); fann labour was
priced at 0.9 of its financial wage rate. Economic prices of non-traded goods were calculated as the foreign
exchange portion plus the non-tax portion of local costs multiplied by the standard conversion. Foreign
exchange content per input category were derived from appraisal data.
14.    Sensitivity analysis. The effect upon the project economic rate of return under various sensitivity
tests is shown in table 10.
Table 10. Project Sensitivity Analysis
Costs            Benefits           ERR (%)
Plus 10%          Unchanged              16%
Plus 20%          Unchanged              12%
Less 10%          Unchanged             24%
Unchanged           Plus 10%             24%
Unchanged           Less 20%             17%
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage Qft'~~~ect Cycle.  No~~~ of Persons n$peciI1                      Pefrmi Rtn
(ei^^gI  2  .. t : - -. -l . .....   :...eDv
Moi~~~tl~~(Y~~... Cou...     ..     ..e..a..... .          ..P~rssQjci~
Identification/Preparation             I    Sr. Agric., Soil Scientist               S                   S
Identification
July-1988                        I    Civil Engineer                           S                   S
Appraiul/Negotiation
Appraisal - Apr. 1989            1    Sr. Agriculturalist                      S                   S
Negotiations- Oct.1989           1    Sr. Agriculturalist                      S                    S
Supervision
April-90                          1   Sr. Agricultralist                       S                   S
Apnl-91                           1   Sr. Agrculturalist                       S                   S
July-91                           I   Agricultualist                           S                   S
October-91                        1   SL Agriculturalist                       S                   S
April-92                          1   Sr. Agriculturalist                                          S
December-92                       2   Agriculturalist, Soil Scientist          S
May-93                            I   Sr. Agriculturalist                      S                    S
October-93                        3   Sr.Ag. Econ. Agriculturalist,            S                   S
Soil Scientist
June-94                           I   Sr. Ag. Economist                        S                   S
November-94                       I   Agriculturalist                          S                    S
April-95                          1   Sr. Ag. Economnist                       S                   S
September-95                      I   Ecologist                                S                   S
October-95                        1   Civil Engineer                           S                    S
November-95                       2   Sr. Ag. Economist                        S                    S
Agriculturalist
June-96                           4   Sr. Ag. Econ. Agriculturalist,           S                    S
Ecologist, Rural Sociologist
July-96                           2   Ecologist Rural Sociologist              S                   S
Nov-Dec-96                        3   Sr. Ag. Economist                        S                    S
Agricultuwalist, Ecologist
January-97                        3   Sr. Ag.Economist,                        S                    S
Agriculturalist, Ecologist
April-97                          3   SL Ag. Economist, Ecologist,             S                   S
Agriculturalist
September-97                      I   Sr. Ag. Economist                        S                    S
December-97                       I   Sr. Ag. Economist                        S                    S
April-98                          I   Sr. Ag. Economist                        S                    S
November-98                       4   Sr. Ag. Economist, Ecologist,            S                    S
Water Res. Specialist,
Agriculturalist
NMarch-99                         5   Sr.Ag. Economist, Ecologist,             S                    S
Water Res. Specialist,
_______________   ______  Agriculturalist, Sociologist
- 29-



ICR
November-99                   5   Sr. Ag. Economist,                   S                  S
Sociologist, Water Res.
Specialist, Rural Sociologist,
Agriculturalist
(b) Staff
Sae: Sof PfjectCo                             tul/aest - -: mat
_ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ !  :   -    N a.  S taff   weeks  IY$0.
Identification/Prepamation               36.6                       66.40
ADpmisal/Negot.ation                      9.1                       24.30 .-
Supervision                             1S1.9                       525.3
ICR                                       7.6                        34.7
Total                                   205.2                      650.70
NOTE: Actual/Latest Estimate includes US$90,200 fiom FAO/CP.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substmtial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
fa Macro policies
E Sector Policies
0 Physical                                OH OSUOM ON ONA
E Financial                               O H  OSUOM   O N  O NA
iS Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
O Gender                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
M Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Community Involvement
F Private sector development              0 H  0      SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
I Public sector management                0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoiy, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HU=Highly UnsatisfactoDy)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
L Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU   OHU
L Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Li Preparation                                     OHS OS  O u  O HU
L Government implementation performance            O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                O HS Os  0 U  0 HU
Li Overall                                         OHS OS  O u  O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Staff Appraisal Report
2.   Loan Agreement
3.   Borrower's Progress and Annual Reports
3.   Aide-Memoires
4.   Forms 590
5.   Letters to the Government
6.   Back-to-Office Reports (Bank and FAO-CP)
7.   Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
8.   Ex-ante Evaluation Report
9.   Mid-term Evaluation Report
10.   Borrower Completion Report (Summary and by Project Component)
11.   Ex-post Evaluation Report (available on the internet www.icepa.com.br)
12.   Economic Analysis (carried out at ICR mission)
13.   Specific ex-post analyses/studies (also available on the internet www.icepa.com.br)
(a)   PROSOLO (Soil Conservation Incentive Fund)
(b)   Controle de Erosao ao Longo de Estradas Rurais (Erosion Control along Rural
Roads)
(c)   Analise Comparativa do Plantio Direto com o Sistema Convencional de Manejo do
Solo em                 Sistemas de Produ9ao de Lavouras em Santa Catarina
(Comparative Analysis of No-tillage With   Conventional Cultivation in Santa Catarina)
(e)   Inpacto do Projeto na Industria Catarinense de Maquinas e Equipamentos
Agricolas (Project      Impact on Santa Catarina Agricultural Equipment Industries)
(f)   Mudan,a Comportamental das Pessoas e Institui,ces (Behavioral Changes of
Individuals and         Institutions)
(g)   Qualidade da Agua no Meio Rural (Water Quality in AssistedMicrocatchments)
(i)    A Experiencia da Cria,ao Combinada de Suinos e Peixes (The Pig-Fish Culture
Experience)
(j)    A Experiencia da Implanta,ao do Parque da Serra do Tabuleiro (The Serra do
Tabuleiro Park          Implementation Experience)
- 33 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
1.    Project files contain extensive documentation generated by the socio-economic surveys carried out
by the borrower at project start-up (1992; 90 farmers in 14 microcatchments), mid tenn (1995;
cummulative 620 farmers in 90 microcatchments) and completion (1999; cummulative 720 farmers in 120
microcatchments). These studies are all in the website of the Borrower at www.ICEPA.com.br. Highlights
of survey findings, based on the Executive Summaxy of the final report, are given below.
2.    Improvements in Land Management. Areas receiving liming, organic manuring, direct drilling
and subsoiling exceeded appraisal estimates; green manuring, minimal tillage and stone or vegetative
barriers feli short of appraisal estimates. Crop yield gains exceeded appraisal estimates for the main crops
by from 12% to 41%, and exceeded completion estimates of without project yields by 15% to 50%.
Weights at slaughter for cattle and pigs rose, and ages at slaughter ages fell; milk productivity increased.
Rural sanitation improved but further gains are needed. Despite productivity gains, farm incomes fell due
to declining prices; but falls were less for adopters of land management improvements than for
non-adopters. Farm family attitudes changed: there was greater willingness to co-operate in solving
problems; women and other family members tended to have a greater say in economic decisions.
3.    Erosion Control on Rural Roads. Delays in release of funds slowed implementation of this
component. Implementation also suffered initially from unfamiliarity of DER engineers with methods
needed to upgrade minor roads, but awareness of the needs to dispose safely of runoff from roads was
improved. Municipalities offered less co-operation than assumed, often due to lack of their own funds.
DER at times ignored the locations of greatest need for upgrading (often difficult of access) in favour of
maximising the number of municipalites in which work was done. Transitability of rural roads greatly
improved with better erosion control, and was considered by communities a major project benefit.
Maintenance costs fell by as much as 80%. The component should have been complemented by actions to
control erosion derived from on-farm roads.
4.    Monitoring Water Quality. Monitoring of bacterial contamination in 14 microcatchments showed
variable results, at times due to the influence of non-agricultural activities and the choice of sampling point.
In one microcatchment that was monitored in great detail, turbidity reduced by 61% and suspended solids
by 70%. Needs for aluminium sulphate to clean this water up to standards needed for domestic supply fell
by 46%.
5.     Case Study: Environmental Problems arising from Pig/Fish Farming. Contamination
problems that emerged during implementation were given project support. The Bank was judged to have
had a decisive influence in helping the State towards a successful solution.
6.     The Serra do Tabuleiro Park. Local communities and authorities were initially little involved in
planning and implementation of this surviving part of the original parks component. During initial years
relations with the public state authorities were declining. An educative approach combined with the
formation of local stakeholder bodies changed this relationship with the authorities, and created a local
sense of ownership which after much delay is expected to lead to the setting up of a viable conservation
area. Replication of this model is suggested. The Bank was judged to have a decisive role in helping the
State reformulating the strategy for the implementation of this Park.
7.    Changes in Behaviour. At institutional level, understanding of environmental issues and the
benefits of closer interactions with communities are judged to have increased. Municipalities have
committed their own resources where those of the project were inadequate. Self esteem of technical staff
- 34 -



has been raised due to project involvement. Farmers' practices are gradually changing and habits of greater
consultation within the family are increasing slowly; their awareness of environmental issues is also
increasing. Co-operation among farmers for marketing or joint farming activities remains incipient. While
much therelbre remains to be done in terns of community and farmer behaviour, it is nevertheless judged
that a useful start has been made.
8.    PROSOLO. The fund provided incentives for over 40,000 items of investment by 30,000
farmers, at a total cost of US$8.75 million. Some 3,600 farmer groups were fonned, which in many cases
also undertook non-project activities; further groups formed spontaneously outside the project. PROSOLO
gave a strong incentive both for group formation and technical change. Supporting State documents, but
not the executive summary, note, however, that application procedures for PROSOLO were cumbersome
until revised, amounts were smaller than farrners would have preferred, and funds were slow to arrive.
9.    Industrial Impact. Manuficture of equipment adapted to the project technical strategy under the
research component was taken up by 9 large and 46 small finms. Turnover in sales of adapted machines in
1998 was estimated at US$3.7 million and about 240 jobs had been created.
10.   The Change to Zero-Tillage. In the State of Santa Catarina the area of zero-tillage increased
from an estimated 120,000 ha in 1993/4 to 880,000 ha in 1998/9. The area under conservation
management practices now totals an estimated 60% of the State's cropped area. The main constraint to
more rapid uptake cited by farmers was unavailability of the necessary machinery. Zero-tillage reduced
traction needs by between 19% (tractor cultivation) and 66% (animal cultivation). Labour requirements
fell by between 16% (onions) and 59% (beans). Dosages of lime and inorganic fertilisers could be reduced.
Lowered sensitivity of crops to short-tenn drought was reported by 90% of farmers and 2/3 also reported
reduced sensitivity of crops to heavy rains. On the other hand, there were more pest and disease problems
in zero-tillage crops and a correspondingly greater need for insecticides. Farmers were unanimous in
considering zero-tillage crops easier to manage, but felt that further improvement of machinery was still
needed.
- 35 -



Annex .9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
1.    Documentation of the Evaluation Workshop held on 26/27 October, 1999 is on project files. The
Workshop was attended by almost 100 people, some 40 of whom were from the Santa Catarina Research
and Extension Enteiprise, 10 from the Project Unit or Secretariat of Agriculture, 7 each from
municipalities, State natural resources/environment organisations or planning groups for a proposed
follow-up project, and 5 each from other state govemments or non-governmental development
organisations. Four were from the private sector and two each from the State roads department and the
Bank.
2.    Six Working Groups considered respectively the project's parks component, reforestation,
extension/mapping/roads, agricultural research, water monitoring, and the incentive fund for soil
conservation.
3.    Positive aspects identified by participants included the mobilisation for development of community
leaders, participation and behaviour change among producers and rural communities, the stimulus to joint
action provided by the project approach and financial incentives, and the greater credibility it had given to
technical assistance staff within rural communities. The project was judged to have brought a new vision of
environmental and natural resource management and created widespread awareness of, and commitment to,
the new approaches. Improvements were noted to rural roads, domestic sanitation, the disposal of animal
waste, and water quality. The continuity of project management, the project's inter-institutional nature and
its concentration of resources and efforts were also considered positive aspects.
4.    Lessons learned included the value of using a catchmentlmicrocatchment approach for planning
and implementation; the importance of listening to fanmers, focusing on a few attainable objectives and
planning within available capacity; the fiudamental importance of institutional integration and community
participation; and the difficulty of involving the private sector.
5.    It was hoped by the participants that a follow-up project would retain most of the characteristics of
the first project, with even greater co-operation between institutions and disciplines. There should be
further cost-sharing incentives for faimers' improvements in resource management and better
environmental monitoring. Mechanisms to resolve environmental conflicts should be improved.
6.    Fears for a follow-up project centred on risks of political interference and discontinuity of funding,
approval delays, and constraints arising fiom shortage or poor quality of the human resources needed for
implementation.
- 36 -



