Page  1
February 3, 1993
Deputado Cairu Hack
Secretary of Agriculture and Supply
State of Santa Catarina
Rodovia SC 404, Km 03
Itacorubi
88030 Florianopolis
Santa Catarina, Brazil
Re:
Loan No. 3160-BR (Land Management II Project)
Special Account -  Amendment
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated July 22, 1991, entered into between 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and State of Santa 
Catarina for the above Project.
As a result of the decision of the Brazilian Government, approved by the Bank, 
to transfer to commercial banks the Special Account opened pursuant to such Loan 
Agreement, the following amendments need to be made in such Agreement:
1.
The expressions "CESA" and "FESA" are replaced by the expression "Special 
Account" wherever they appear in the Loan Agreement.
2.
Paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement are deleted 
and the following new paragraph (b) is inserted therein:
"(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,open and 
maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
3.
The provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement (except those in paragraph 1 
of such Schedule) are replaced by the provisions in the Annex to this letter.
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please sign the copy of this letter 
in the space provided below and return it to us.  
The present amendment will become effective only after the Bank shall have 
received a certified statement of the Special Account fully reconciled to the 
satisfaction of the Bank, and the Bank shall be satisfied that the Borrower is in full 
compliance with the Special Account provisions of the Loan Agreement being amended 
hereby.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stephen J. Ettinger
       Acting Director
       Country Department I
       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Page  2
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
By /s/ 
       Authorized Representative
ANNEX
Special Account
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For the replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the                   
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  3
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions."
