Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17248
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
(Credit no. 2276-EGT)
December 19, 1997
Human Development Sector
Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Egyptian pound (LE)
US$ 1.00            =      LE 3.33 (April 1991)
US$ 1.00            =      LE 3.39 (June 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
lkm          =      0.62 miles
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I   -   June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD                        -      Board of Directors
CAS                        -      Country Assistance Strategy
CDP                        -      Community Development Program
EC                         -      Executive Committee
EDP                        -      Enterprise Development Program
ERSAP                      -      Economic Reform and Structural
Adjustment Program
ICR                        -      Implementation Completion Report
IDP                        -      Institutional Development Program
LDAs                       -      Local Development Administration
LMP                        -      Labor Mobility Program
PWP                        -      Public Works Program
SFD                        -      Social Fund for Development
SAL                        -      Structural Adjustment Loan-
SEDO                       -      Small Enterprises Development
Organization
Vice President:                      Kemal Dervia
Country Director:                    Inder Sud
Sector Director:                    Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager:                        David Steel



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface....................................................................................................................
Evaluation summary................................................................................................
Part I                         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.                   Introduction .........................................1
B.                  Achievement of Objectives and Implementation Record ............... 2
C.                   Special Features of the Social Fund .........................................        8
D.                  Major Factors Affecting Project Perfonnance ..................................8
E.                  Project Sustainability ........................................                      11
F.                  Bank Performance ........................................                            12
G                   Borrower Performance ........................................                        13
H.                  Assessment of Outcome ........................................                       13
I.                   Future Operation ........................................                           13
I.                  Key Lessons Learned ........................................                         15
Part II              STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:                       Summary of Assessments .........................................2
Table 2:                       Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................................3
Table 3:                       Project Timetable .........................................3
Table 4:                       Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................ 4
Table 5:                       Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................4
Table 6:                       Key Indicators for Project Operation .........................................        5
Table 7:                       Studies Included in the Project .........................................8
Table 8A:                      Project Costs .........................................8
Table 8B:                      Project Financing .........................................9
Table 9:                       Status of Legal Covenants ........................................                  10
Table 10:                      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 10
Table 11:                      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................                11
Table 12:                      Bank Resources: Missions ........................................                    12
Annex I:                       How Well Did the Egypt Social Fund Project Perform?
Appendixes                     A.   Mission's aide-m6moire.
B.   Borrower contribution to the ICR .
C.   Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2276-EGT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Fund Project in
Egypt, for which Credit No. 2276-EGT in the amount of SDR 105 million equivalent was
approved on June 21, 1991 and made effective on April 6, 1992. The credit was closed on June
30, 1997. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on March 15, 1997.
'Joint' cofinancing for the project was provided by Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden
and Switzerland. 'Parallel' cofinancing was provided by the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development, Canada, the European Union, France, Germany, Ireland, the
Kuwait Fund, Norway, the People's Republic of China and the United Nations Development
Program.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. David Steel of the Human Development Sector, Middle
East and North Africa Region, Ms. Soniya Carvalho (PSP) and Ms. Santhadevi Meenakshy
(ASTEN). It was reviewed by Mr. Jacques Baudouy, Sector Director, Human Development
Sector, and Mr. Douglas Graham, Project Adviser, Egypt Department, Middle East and North
Africa Region. The borrower's own evaluation is included. There were no comments from
cofinanciers.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission conducted from June 24-July 3, 1997 and was completed after the Multi Donor Review
on the project held in Egypt from October 18-23, 1997. It is based on material in the project file
as well as information collected in the field. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and by commenting on the draft
ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Credit No. 2276-EGT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Social Fund Project (Cr. 2276) evaluated in this report was prepared by the Government,
the World Bank and UNDP between December 1989 and February, 1991. The project was appraised
in March, negotiated in May and a credit of SDR 105 million (US$140 million) was approved by the
Board on June 21, 1991. The credit was signed on September 26, 1991 and became effective on April
6, 1992. All the planned project cofinancing of US$432 million plus additional cofinancing of US$41
million was in place by August, 1993, with the exception of that from Germany which was approved in
tranches between October, 1994 and June, 1996. The total project cost amounted to $613 million.
Subsequently new cofinancing amounting to about US$125 million was received from Austria, the
European Union (supplemental grant), France, Ireland and the People's Republic of China provided on
the basis of the Social Fund's sound track record. The project was the first of its kind in Egypt, was
specifically designed to support the Government's economic adjustment program and represented a
shift by the World Bank to address poverty alleviation in a much larger and more systemic way than
previously in Egypt. The project was consistent with the Egypt Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
In 1991, in response to a difficult economic situation caused by falling oil prices and the Gulf
War, Egypt embarked on a broad economic adjustment program with support from the World Bank
and the IMF, including the Social Fund Project. The main stabilization goals were met and provided a
basis for a resumption of sustainable economic growth. The Social Fund for Development (SFD) has
developed into a credible mechanism to channel funds towards selected target groups adversely
affected by the adjustment process and has succeeded in providing a significant number of
employment opportunities. The principal economic problems which still persist in Egypt are high
levels of poverty and unemployment. Between 20-30 percent of Egyptians are estimated to live in
poverty and the unemployment rate is over 20 percent. These problems can only be resolved by a high
growth strategy, which the Government is seeking to implement.
Project Objectives
The SFD was set up in 1991 at the height of the Gulf crisis. It was conceived with three
objectives in mind: (a) to help mitigate the possible immediate negative impact of the Economic
Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP); (b) to provide help to the Gulf returnees; and (c)
to protect selected vulnerable target population groups from the longer term impact of adjustment.
These objectives were to be achieved through six programs: a Public Works Program (PWP) to support
labor intensive construction projects; a Community Development Program (CDP) including support for
microenterprise and community based social services; an Enterprise Development Program (EDP) to
help new and on-going small enterprises; a Labor Mobility Program (LMP) to help labor adjust to
economic reform; a Transport Program to improve transport services for the poor; and an Institutional
Development Program (IDP) to support the SFD secretariat as well as poverty monitoring through
surveys and studies.



Summary of Findings
Objectives: The SFD met its first and third objectives. It was able to create on average about 90,000
jobs per year, i.e. almost 25 percent of all non-agriculture jobs created annually in Egypt. One aspect
of these objectives, helping workers made redundant through public sector enterprise restructuring or
privatization, was only partially met as the pace of the Government's privatization/restructuring
program was much slower than expected. SFD also partly met the second objective by creating
employment opportunities for Gulf returnees. Moreover, SFD met these employment creation
objective with annual expenditures equivalent to only 0.2 percent of GDP or about 6 percent of annual
donor flows to Egypt. The costs of job-creation compare favorably with other countries (see table 2 in
main text) based on data from various units within the World Bank.
Programs: Of the six SFD programs the public works program (PWP) has efficiently met the
objective of generating employment while constructing quality works in collaboration with local
Governments and communities. The principal problem encountered has been maintenance of SFD
financed infrastructure, which would also generate permanent jobs. In many cases local Governments
did not provide the resources agreed. In response SFD has developed several approaches such as
setting up user associations which represent 'best practice' globally to deal with the vexing problem of
sustainability of sub-projects.
The community development program (CDP) supported a wide range of interventions to help
the poorest communities giving priority to their most vulnerable members. The CDP adopted a very
participatory approach and also supported the development of NGOs. About 73 percent of the direct
beneficiaries were rural and 66 percent were female. Two issues persist and need addressing. The first
issue concerns operations and maintenance of the SDF financed activities. This issue is being tackled
by using similar innovative approaches as in the case of the PWP. In addition a portion of each grant is
earmarked for capacity building. The second issue is the lack of market orientation for the CDP
microenterprise and training activities. Improved marketing studies will be carried out before support
for microenterprises is provided.
The enterprise development program (EDP), the SFD's main employment generating program,
has efficiently met its objective of creating permanent employment through support for new and
existing small enterprises by providing a package of technical assistance, training and credit. The
program has disbursed over US$330 million to intermediaries for on-lending to about 60,000
borrowers. The program benefits unemployed graduates and the poor who are priority target groups;
about 25 percent of loan beneficiaries are women. The EDP program opened up the banking system
for borrowers who otherwise would not have received a loan. In total 153,000 permanent jobs were
created (strictly measured as jobs still in existence after one year of creation).
The sustainability of the EDP has been a central issue. There is a possible emerging problem
with the quality of the banks' EDP loan portfolio (an increase in the level and aging of arrears) which
would affect program sustainability and the relationship with the financial intermediaries if not
promptly addressed. SFD management has taken immediate steps to address these arrears problems by
strengthening its oversight and reporting requirements and by amending the terms and conditions for
new contracts currently being negotiated with the banks. Improvements to program design to
strengthen sustainability were anticipated during the appraisal of SFD II in 1996. One of the major
objectives of the next phase on which the Social Fund is well advanced is the design of the new Small
Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO) as a means to achieve operational and financial
sustainability, including eventual independence from donor funds. Design flaws under SFD I are being



iii
corrected and SEDO's basic operating principles include: (a) on-lending to participating banks at an
interest rate sufficient to maintain the value of its funds in real terms; (b) the cost of services provided
by SEDO staff is recovered in the long-term, directly or indirectly, from the banks/beneficiaries; (c)
the banks have a sufficient spread to cover their costs including an allowance for default; and (d)
SEDO is managed as a self-standing commercial program while maintaining its social objectives.
In summary the EDP is in a transition phase as it will be superceeded by SEDO in 1998.
Strategic and management decisions made on the EDP will affect the sustainability of SEDO, its
successor. During this period of transition SFD management should gradually introduce the new
standards and procedures developed for SEDO instead of waiting until Phase II begins.
The labor mobility program (LMP) was to help workers in restructured or privatized public
sector enterprises with financial assistance, training and placement services. The original program was
intended to help 50,000 workers at a cost of US$90 million. Since the Government's privatization
program moved considerably slower than expected, the demand for LMP activities was limited and
donors agreed to reduce the program to US$40 million, implicitly reducing the target to 20,000
workers. The program was also broadened to include demand driven training and is now named the
Employment and Retraining Program. So far the program has serviced 7,000 workers and unemployed
graduates and is currently working on servicing 10,000 workers in seven enterprises.
The transport program was dropped in 1995 because it did not fit with the objectives of SFD.
The sixth program, the institutional development program (IDP) included support for (a) SFD
management; and (b) poverty monitoring in collaboration with researchers and CAPMAS (Central
Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics). The management of the SFD has been efficient
(overhead costs were 3 percent of disbursements) and several poverty related surveys have been
completed.
Gender Targeting: The SFD has been targeting women as a special group. Overall 38 percent of all
beneficiaries were women. Twenty-five percent of EDP loan beneficiaries were women and over 65
percent of CDP beneficiaries were women.
Special Features: The project was characterized by several features new to the Egyptian public sector.
The SFD was established as an autonomous agency with its own Board of Directors and Executive
Management committee and with exemption from public sector compensation and procurement
regulations. NGOs have played a major role in helping implement SFD programs. Donors have
played an important role in financing, with the provision of technical assistance and advice, and in
providing political support at various crucial points. A Cairo based donors sub-group has been active
and effective since the project's inception.
Project Performance:  The project performed poorly initially due to a lack of Govemment
understanding and ownership of the project, the Bank's failure to integrate the project sufficiently into
the macroeconomic dialogue, and underestimation of the start-up time needed. Performance was
tumed around as a result of high level meetings between Bank management, Govemment and donors,
insistence on retaining the autonomous status of the SFD, the emergence of an organization that
attracted high quality managers and staff and was well managed and administered, and because of
intensive supervision by the Bank and donors. SFD is a well performing institution today with a strong
track record of achievement. Measured against six criteria - meeting original objectives, quantitative
achievements, multiple funding channels, internal efficiency, targeting and sustainability - it has



iv
achieved creditable outcomes. However targeting and sustainability of sub-projects are areas for
improvement in Phase II.
Bank and Borrower Performance: Bank and Borrower performance was weak initially but improved
steadily during implementation as the scope of initial implementation problems was grasped and dealt
with.
Future Operations
The project is being continued under the second Social Fund Project (Cr. 2865) supported by
US$775 million of donor financing. This will build on the strengths of the first phase and will continue
to support the existing five programs during 1997-2000. An IDA credit of SDR 82.3 million was
approved by the Bank on April 25, 1996 and became effective on May 28, 1997. The phase II project
will be launched in October, 1997. IDA also provided an SDR 11.9 million credit (Cr. 2830) for a
Population Project to help reduce fertility among low income couples of reproductive age group in
areas of Egypt where fertility remains high, mainly in rural Upper Egypt. The program will be
managed by SFD on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Population. The credit is expected to become
effective in February, 1998. The Government has also requested a third Social Fund project for FY00.
Key Lessons Learned
There are seven key lessons to be learned from this project: It is costly to turn an
unsatisfactory project around during implementation , uses more resources and requires a greater
effort than if the project had been fully prepared in the first place. It is important to assure
Government ownership ahead of time: The project lacked several key requirements of a well prepared
project at its beginning and initial implementation progress was very slow. The lesson is the
importance of obtaining high level Government commitment of all components of an adjustment
package and to ensure that Government is prepared to commit the resources to get the project up and
operational.
The basic project design was sound: Project design and design of the SFD as an institution turned out
to be satisfactory. The freedom of the SFD to recruit management and staff competitively and on a
performance contract basis, to have operational flexibility and to make fast disbursements for sub-
projects evaluated against clear criteria were decisively important. Bank insistence on adhering to the
design and the gradual realization of senior Government that they had a tool for effective delivery of
social programs to the poor and their subsequent ownership were important for subsequent turnaround.
Political pressures are strong and can only be countered by strong leadership from the top: The
project has been under strong political pressures from the beginning. Initially the Bank and
Government were pushed to act more quickly than desirable from a project preparation viewpoint
because the project had to be presented as a part of the overall IMF-Bank structural adjustment
package in June, 1991. Donors were also seeking an effective mechanism through which to channel
additional aid commitments promised after the Gulf War and the SFD quickly became a mechanism of
choice. Once the SFD became operational it was besieged by central government agencies which
wanted portions of the funds. This issue became more manageable after the President of Egypt stated
to his Cabinet in 1994 that the SFD was responsible for its funds, must apply its funding eligibility
criteria, and had the right to supervise all benefiting organizations.



v
Catalystfor Change: The SFD has been a catalyst for change in the way public business gets done in
Egypt. It has introduced or greatly expanded initial efforts by others to develop demand driven
programs, decentralized decision making, community level participation, and the use of public-private
partnerships between the private sector, NGOs and Government. It has also demonstrated that a public
sector operation when given managerial autonomy can be run efficiently and effectively and deliver
good quality services. It has projected a service oriented government presence into areas of Egypt
especially Upper Egypt rarely touched by government at all at a time when these were needed. It has
given a strong gender focus to its operations. The SFD has been an active participant in the national
dialogue on social and economic change. It has had an impact difficult to measure but real on
attitudinal change in Egypt towards self reliance, entrepreneurship, decreased dependency of the
individual on the state, and on the attitude of the labor unions and public sector employees towards
privatization and labor adjustment in public sector enterprises.
Major work remains ahead: The Egypt SFD faces the same issues with respect to its long term role
especially vis-a-vis line ministries, targeting, sustainability, impact assessment, decentralization, future
role in stimulating the development of NGO associations and partnerships, the appropriateness of
having a microenterprise program in an SFD type project as other Social Funds world wide are facing.
Essentially these are issues of maturation as the 'emergency' phase of SFD operations concludes. In
addition the Government needs to continue to develop an integrated social protection strategy of which
the SFD is an important part. This will help determine the most useful long term role for the Social
Fund to the Government. Under Phase II of the project, the SFD will undertake a lot of work in these
areas.
The Egypt SFD experience validates generally accepted principles developed by the Bank for a
successful Social Fund, including the placement of a microenterprise program in a Social Fund, as set
out in its Review of the Social Funds Portfolio report of March, 1997.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Credit No. 2276-EGT
PART 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The Social Fund Project (Cr. 2276)    on a broad economic adjustment program
evaluated in this report was prepared by the  with support from the World Bank and the
Government, the World Bank and UNDP         IMF. This support consisted of three parts -
between December 1989 and February,         an IMF Stand-By Arrangement, a $300
1991. The project was appraised in March,   million Structural Adjustment Credit from
negotiated in May and a credit of SDR 105   the World Bank and a Social Fund Project
million (US$140 million) was approved by    of US$613 million equivalent supported by
the Board on June 21, 1991. The credit was  17 donors with the purpose of softening the
signed on September 26, 1991 and became     initial adverse impacts of the adjustment
effective on April 6, 1992. All the planned  program and to establish a mechanism to
project cofinancing of US$432 million plus  protect selected target groups among the
an additional US$41 million was in place by  poor in Egypt. The main stabilization goals
August, 1993, with the exception of that    were met and provided a basis for a
from  Germany which was approved in         resumption of sustainable economic growth.
tranches between October, 1994 and June,    The Social Fund has developed into a
1996.   Subsequently  new  cofinancing      credible  mechanism  to  channel funds
amounting to about US$125 million was       towards selected target groups adversely
received from Austria, the European Union,  affected by the adjustment process and has
France, Ireland and the People's Republic of  succeeded  in  providing  employment
China provided on the basis of the Social   opportunities,   both  temporary   and
Fund's sound track record. The project was  permanent for a significant number of
the first of its kind  in Egypt, was        Egyptian poor.  The principal economic
specifically  designed  to  support  the    problems which still persist in Egypt are
Government's   economic   adjustment        high levels of poverty and unemployment.
program  and represented a shift by the     Between 20-30 percent of Egyptians are
World Bank to address poverty alleviation   estimated to live in poverty and a recent
in a much larger and more systemic way      survey found the unemployment rate to be
than previously in Egypt. The project was   close to 21 percent, when adjusted for
consistent  with  the  Egypt  Country       underemployment, with 85 percent of the
Assistance Strategy (CAS).                  unemployed between 19 and 29 years of age
- mostly recent graduates. These problems
2.    In 1991 in response to a difficult    can only be resolved by a high growth
economic situation caused by falling oil    strategy, which the Government is seeking
prices and the Gulf War, Egypt embarked    to implement.



2
3.    The high level of poverty is not just  construction    projects;    Community
a social and equity issue - the factors    Development (CDP) including support for
underlying widespread poverty are the same  microenterprise  and  community  based
factors contributing to the lack of broad-  social services; Enterprise Development
based growth. Egypt, like other countries  (EDP) to help new and on-going small
in the region, has the potential to unleash a  enterprises; Labor Mobility (LMP) to help
dynamic  and  forward-looking  small      labor adjust to  economic  reform; a
enterprise sector which could lead to broad-  Transport Program  to improve transport
based employment generation and poverty    services for the poor; and Institutional
reduction. Egypt also has age old social   Development (IDP) to support the SFD
structures and community groups which are  secretariat as well as poverty monitoring
close to the people (particularly the poor)  through surveys and studies. A review of
and can play a strong role in the country's  SFD  performance by the Govermment
economic development - if allowed to take  (SFD-Mission Beyond 1996, October 1994)
the lead. Broad based growth that harnesses  concluded  that SFD  had  been  very
the energies of Egypt's small entrepreneurs  successful. A subsequent evaluation was
and community organizations can also help  done by the World Bank in 1996 for the
reduce the attraction of extremist political  Second Social Fund Project appraisal. This
movements - thus contributing not only to  was generally positive but flagged some
economic growth and well-being but also to  areas as needing improvement. The ICR
political and social stability.            evaluation was conducted in July and will
be completed in December, 1997 following
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES               a Multi Donor Review in Cairo in October.
AND IMPLEMENTATION RECORD                  It was based on information collected using
the following methods: (a) review of project
4.    Social Fund for  Development        file; (b) field visit to the SFD; (c) review of
(SFD): The SFD was set up in 1991 at the   four impact assessments; and (d) review of
height of the Gulf crisis. It was conceived  administrative data from  SFD  and its
with three objectives in mind: (a) to help  partners.  The World Bank evaluation
mitigate the possible immediate negative   confirmed the previous positive assessments
impact of the Economic Reform  and         though  it found a possible emerging
Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP);     problem with repayment rates under the
(b) to provide help to the Gulf returnees;  Enterprise Development Program, which is
and (c) to protect selected vulnerable target  now  being addressed.   The evaluation
populations from the longer term impact of  findings are summarized below.
adjustment. These objectives were to be
achieved through six programs: Public
Works (PWP) to support labor based



3
Table 1
Employment Created
(manyears)
Program                         Plan Estimate                             Actual'
Temporary         Permanent        Temporary             Permanent
Public Works                  26,000             15,000            24,000                    3,500
Community Devt.               43,000             78,000            48,000                   76,500
Enterprise Devt.'      Not estimated    Not estimated              59,000                  153,500
Labor Mobility                    NA                NA              2,800                    2,200
Total                         69,000             93,000           133,800                 235,700
' Data as of 12/31/96
2Appraisal estimate: 70,000 microenterprises to be financed
Actual outcome: 59,000 microenterprises financed
Table 2: Cost of Job Creation for Different Social Funds in 1995 US$/Job
Egypt    Honduras  Nicaragua Madagascar Bolivia   Senegal   Ghana
Cost per Job at Market       1,401      2,120     2,580          786      2,700     5,445       2,122
Exchange Rates
Cost per Job at PPP          7,212      9,759    14,302        3,260      9,388    12,100      10,610
Exchange Rates          IIIIII_
5.      The SFD  met its first and third             which had no prior access to banks. One
objectives. It was able to create on average         aspect of these objectives, helping workers
about 90,000 jobs per year, i.e. almost 25           made redundant through public enterprise
percent of all non-agriculture jobs created          restructuring  or privatization, was  only
annually  in  Egypt. The  SFD  did  this             partially   met  as  the   pace   of  the
primarily by supporting small enterprises            Government's privatization/restructuring
',.,..-.;,..,..;'.,,.''~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~......... .......-....................... _.......
....   ......._ - ... - - - -  ....... . . .   . . .   . .......    .. : ..  ..... .  -   ..
Th-ml  ut vilag  lii cls to the ege of the .-.ltivae  area in Fnu   asg- the gree
givs   yto th  deet.h villeistth t            ail-en  t-m-          -of te  aerdstiuto  sy tem -- run -
..v         conbe. .............d a st 2p n .    In the same vil    te   Dhe.lped d lo
c.'-o"Xmmuity.Xt.-  cen.t.......    a r   woe' adulti
-.beenj helpn  you:   girs wh  drpe   u   fsho,det fml    aca   rsue,t
n       ...rdi.n,  ritg .n           .                                  .n anothe part.o y. m, .a. y g ba  w.i..
the pooes  rou  bu hs employesE are.          iE              E  i          i
................  r       ..I.......... ...   - r 4 i      +  E ii      ,,-EE----
',. . . . .   .... .............................i'l--i--
'.  . '.. '-,'-,.  .-'-.,-.-.-. -. -:.. ,-':''........



4
program was much slower than expected.      for maintenance and placing it in a savings
SFD also partly met the second objective by  account for the local agency responsible for
creating employment opportunities for Gulf  maintenance. A variant on this is to award a
returnees.   Moreover, SFD  met these       maintenance contract to a private contractor
employment creation objectives with annual  and use the savings account funds to finance
expenditures equivalent to only 0.2 percent  the contract. A second variant is to award a
of GDP or about 6 percent of annual donor   maintenance  contract  to  the  prime
flows to Egypt. The costs of job-creation   contractor and permit them to charge user
compare favorably with other countries (see  fees to cover a fixed portion of the
table 2) based on data from various units   maintenance costs.   These approaches
within the World Bank. SFD's employment     represent 'best practice' globally to deal
achievements are summarized in table 1.     with the vexing problem of sustainability of
Project outcomes are elaborated in more     sub-projects.
detail in Annex 1 and in the Statistical
Annex (table 6). A summary assessment by          2. --.
program follows.              i                  . .. .               ... i
6.    Public Works Program (PWP): The       Toad vllage lies cs  t Egpts g
objective of this program was to transfer   torstacs a                     a
income    while   developing    local      thr  hows living c t ,hih w
infrastructure  by  creating  employment   b  h    b i      i  e    in t-  wo>st
through the use of labor based works in an                A s
efficient way. The program has efficiently      ..pcent o.f -he cide  unde  12. in the
met the objective of generating employment  vilage suer fom   tti  infe
while  constructing  quality  works  in     da   Threine
collaboration with local Governments and    to        0 sa
communities.  The  principal  problem       ad           osalad a e        6f flies.
encountered during Phase I (refers to the   s      g eve   or t
SFD's activities from  1993-1997 which       g     T  l -i Dvlme
have been partially supported by the First  Assoiation bad very limited 'eso    d
Social Fund Project) has been maintenance   a        to the S) for h
of SFD financed infrastructure.  Though     commt dvelent
local   Governments   have   provided       a   r
assurances of supporting operations and     e              aw n        cmigs
maintenance and Governors have included     spg of fliesn of s     pits,.
this in their budget requests, the resources  Wd es   s     o       aim 
have not been forthcoming due to fiscal       s               disposal    e  lg
constraints. There are no local taxes in   rema  poor-but t
Egypt.  In response SFD has developed        rud o  t    m                   hv
several approaches. The first involves local            i       l
communities in operations and maintenance.      ......
This calls for setting up users associations
which would collect voluntary contributions  7.    Community Development Program
in cash or kind from beneficiaries.  To     (CDP): The objective of this program was
encourage these associations, the SFD      to help the poorest communities giving
would  provide  matching  funds  for        priority to their most vulnerable members.
maintenance activities on a downward        The range of activities supported by the
sliding  scale.    The  second  entails     CDP  includes: (a) provision of social
earmarking 10 percent of the grant amount



5
services such as literacy classes, health care,  lending and hence have sole loan decision
family planning, etc.; (b) micro-enterprises  authority. The program has disbursed over
to increase the income of the poorest      US$330 million to intermediaries for on-
households; and (c) community centers for  lending and has spent additional resources
the operation of social and other services.  to develop and deliver technical assistance
In the course of its operations, the CDP has  packages. Currently about 60,000 sub-loans
adopted a very participatory approach and is  are outstanding.
also supporting the development of NGOs.
About 73 percent of the direct beneficiaries  9.    The current interest rates to the final
were rural and 66 percent were female. Two  borrowers are slightly above inflation: the
issues persist and need addressing. The first  interest rate on a loan to an existing small
issue concerns operations and maintenance  business is 9 percent including a fixed bank
of the SFD financed activities. This issue is  spread of 2 percent while the interest rate on
being tackled by setting up users' groups as  a loan to a new business is 7 percent
in the case of PWP for each of the financed  including a fixed bank spread of 3 percent.
activities.  In addition a portion (4-7    They remain below the prime but near T-bill
percent) of each grant is earmarked for    rates (respectively  10 and 9 percent).
capacity building of either the intermediary  Interest rates to  final borrowers are
or final implementing agency. The second   reviewed on a yearly basis. About 40
issue is the lack of market orientation for  percent of  loans  were  for  start-up
the CDP  microenterprise  and  training    enterprises. The EDP program opened up
activities. This means that the CDP has    the banking system  for borrowers that
sometimes provided training for fields     otherwise would not have received a loan.
which are saturated or have no market. The  In total 153,000 permanent jobs were
CDP has addressed the problem by ensuring  created (strictly measured as jobs still in
that funds are provided for local market   existence after one year of creation).
surveys, feasibility studies, training and site  Twenty-four percent of loans are for small
purchase before approving  support for     industry such as ceramics, metals, plastics
enterprises. It also assists beneficiaries to  and glass production, textiles, apparel and
obtain tax exemptions and has established  leather goods, 22 percent for services, 37
an insurance association for credit risks.  percent  for  agriculture  and  animal
production, and 17 percent for trade. The
8.    Enterprise Development Program       beneficiary impact surveys show that EDP
(EDP):    The  EDP  helps to  create       is benefiting unemployed graduates which is
employment through support for new and     a priority target group and that 25 percent of
existing small enterprises by providing a  borrowers are women.
package of technical assistance, training and
credit. The difference between the CDP and  10.   The EDP is being assessed on the
the EDP lending activities is that the     basis of: number of unlending framework
average CDP loan is US$500 and credit is   agreements and loan amounts entered into
extended through NGOs, while the EDP's     between  the  SFD  and  banks; actual
average loan is US$5,000 and credit is     disbursements from the SFD (in tranches) to
extended mainly through commercial banks.  banks; and number of loans and amounts
It should be noted that 55 percent of EDP  lent by banks to borrowers (entrepreneurs).
loans are for less than US$2,500.  The     The assessment also includes an analysis of
banks'  lending  is  complemented  by      program sustainability as measured by the
technical assistance provided mainly by    loan repayment rate from  borrowers to
EDP staff but also through some NGOs.      banks and by the latter to the SFD. This
Banks take the full commercial risk of their  program  is facing a possible emerging



' 6
problem because of a decrease in sub-loan  need follow up on a regular basis. EDP and
repayment rates and a rising level of arrears  SFD top management have institutionalized
as an increasing number of loans come out  monthly meetings with the CEOs of the
of their grace periods. This' may become a  major banks and the Governor of the
potential issue as a substantial part of the  Central Bank to discuss the program and
arrears are over 180 days old and may turn  address issues at hand. A similar monthly
into potential loan losses if no action is  meeting takes place with the heads of the
taken. Unless addressed promptly this may  credit departments of the major banks.
affect the banks' EDP loan portfolios with  Finally SFD is amending the terms and
their clients and hence the future interest of  conditions of new contracts currently being
the banks to work with EDP. This could     negotiated with the banks, including the
threaten the sustainability of the EDP.    terms and conditions under which the banks
Although the scope of the problems is      will lend to the final borrower.
insignificant financially for the participating
banks, the EDP (US$330 million disbursed   12.   The structural design flaws of the
to banks) is by far the largest source of  EDP and their potential impact on the
finance for small and microenterprises in  sustainability  of  the  program   were
Egypt and has established a credible       recognized during the appraisal of SFD II.
reputation for creating permanent jobs - a  The SFD is well advanced with the design
national priority. If portfolio quality does  of the new Small Enterprises Development
deteriorate banks are less likely to be    Organization (SEDO) which will address
interested in participating in the program in  these problems in a structural manner and
the future.                                administer the EDP program under Phase II.
The EDP, at its inception, was designed
11.   SFD management has started to        primarily as a "job-creation" mechanism to
directly address these immediate emerging  assist entrepreneurs and to disburse loans
problems. Until recently SFD (and donors)  quickly and efficiently without much regard
only required banks to report repayment    for issues concerning the sustainability of
rates which is not a good indicator of the  this operation. It has successfully helped
quality of the loan portfolio. The SFD has  thousands of borrowers, while operating
initiated in cooperation with the banks, a  under a set of (often conflicting) donor
comprehensive review of the loan portfolio  demand and constraints. The EDP in effect
using more reliable indicators such as     acts as a successful wholesale  small
portfolio at risk; arrears and aging of    business support and  finance  agency,
arrears. Despite the initial work load for  delivering loans to small businesses through
both SFD and the banks (both SFD as well   banks and delivering business services
as many banks analyzed their portfolio in  through  NGOs.    During  the  1996
this manner for the first time ever), banks  assessment of Phase I of the program, it was
have welcomed this initiative because it   agreed that in Phase II, the issue of
helps them to better manage their portfolios.  sustainability needs to be addressed. This
The SFD also agreed with the banks that    would require that: (a) SFD on-lending to
they will report on the quality of the     banks carries an interest rate sufficient to
portfolio on a regular basis using newly   maintain the value of SFD funds in real
designed reporting formats. In addition,   terms; (b) the cost of the services provided
EDP staff has worked on a pilot basis during  by SFD staff is recovered in the long-term,
the summer with several bank branches to   directly   or  indirectly,  from   the
collect loans that were over 180 days past  banks/beneficiaries; (c) the banks have a
due. Substantial successes were achieved   sufficient spread to cover their costs
and reinforced the lesson that borrowers   including an allowance for default; and (d)



7
the EDP is managed as a self-standing      I program are coming together. Strategic
commercial program while maintaining its   and management decisions made on the
social objectives.                         EDP   will  immediately  affect  the
sustainability of SEDO, its successor under
13.   In summary the EDP is in a          Phase II. During this period of transition
transition phase as the EDP will be        SFD   management  should  gradually
superseded by SEDO in 1998. The design     introduce the new standards and procedures
and preparation for the new organization   developed  for   SEDO   instead   of
(SEDO) and the management and the          waiting   until  Phase   II   begins.
continued implementation of the EDP phase
x ; -a-  -suEyt Tae,et Jo, E iite$Eprise
...   .......                       .............  ..  ......   ..   
. ... .. .. .. .. .   R E....   E i.E i     E- ,   
..f..fed y..    he . S . and the Mnsr of So.ial Affai: He ompd his raig anqualified
- for a small -loa under the productive families sub-project supported by ....ommunity
uiIvidual become netrnu emp n ten pepe
14.   Labor Mobility Program  (LMP):       Government and- the Social Fund, which
The objectives of this program were to help  concluded that the original design concept
w<orkers in restructured or privatized public  was not compatible with the objectives of
sector enterprises with financial assistance,  the Social Fund and that to be sustainable a
training and placement services.   The     program  needed to be accompanied by
original program  was intended to help     urban transport sector policy reforms, which
50,000 workers at a cost of US$90 million,  the Social Fund was not well equipped to
Since  the  Government's  privatization    address. The proceeds of the IDA credit
program moved considerably slower than     allocated for this component were re-
expected, the demand for LMP activities    allocated to other components.
was limited and donors agreed to reduce the
program  to  US$40  million, implicitly    16.   Institutional      Development
reducing the target to 20,000 workers. The  Program  (IDP):  Its objectives included
program  was also broadened to include     support for (a) SFD management; and (b)
demand driven training and is now named    poverty monitoring in collaboration with
the Employment and Retraining Program.     researchers and CAPMAS (Central Agency
So far the program  has serviced 7,000     for Public Mobilization and Statistics). The
workers and unemployed graduates and is    management of the SFD has been efficient
currently working on servicing  10,000     (overhead  costs  are  3  percent  of
workers in seven enterprises,              disbursements).  Several poverty surveys
have been completed, including a priority
15.   Transport Program: The transport    survey (living standards measurement) in
component of the project was dropped in    1993 which provides data for poverty
1995, following a joint review with the    analysis.   The survey includes data to



8
update price indices and the GDP deflator.  government sponsored  NGOs  but to
In addition a Community Survey and an      broaden its appeal to communities, the SFD
Integrated Survey were other major surveys  has  moved  beyond  these.    Close
completed.                                 collaboration with the main religious NGOs
as well as the Egyptian Red Crescent and
17.    Gender Targeting: The SFD has       the Family Planning Association has helped
been targeting women as a special group.   the SFD work with smaller NGOs and
Overall 38 percent of all beneficiaries were  community groups through the use of a
women; and 25 percent of EDP loan          mentor system.  Many of these smaller
beneficiaries were women which compares    NGOs are now  working independently,
favorably  to  Egypt's  entrepreneurship   mostly in poor rural areas. The SFD will
patterns.  It also compares favorably to   continue to  provide  capacity  building
other enterprise  development activities   support to NGOs as lack of institutional
which have been achieving a 10 percent     capacity limits the rate at which their role
target.    Over  65  percent of CDP        can be enlarged.
beneficiaries were women including a third
of the  micro-entrepreneurs  helped  by    20.   Role of Donors: Donors have
program.                                   played a major role in supporting SFD.
This strong support can be attributed to
C. SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE                 donor interest in supporting Egypt's poor
SOCIAL FUND                                and  unemployed  and  also  to  SFD's
demonstrated   efficiency.     SFD's
18.   Managerial Autonomy: The SFD's       effectiveness has been recognized by many
managerial autonomy in terms of decision   donors who provided funding such as the
making, recruitment, procurement and       European  Union, Denmark, Germany,
disbursements and its exemption from civil  Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland,
service  compensation  and  procurement    the Arab Fund, the Kuwait Fund, the Abu
regulations has been a major factor behind  Dhabi Fund, China and India. Many donors
its success. The Board of Directors (BOD)  have pooled their funds with the World
and its Executive Committee (EC) set       Bank Group during Phase I. Others have
policy and leave day to day management to  worked in parallel. Several such as UNDP
the Managing Director.                     have made important contributions to the
more effective functioning of the SFD.
19.   Role of NGOs:  NGOs play a           Without this vigorous and sustained donor
prominent  role  in  SFD   programs        support, SFD's initial progress would not
particularly in the areas of community     have been possible.
development  (CDP)   and   enterprise
development (EDP).  Up to July 1995        D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
NGOs managed LE 100 million out of LE      PROJECT PERFORMANCE
192 million of funds approved for CDP sub-
projects and LE 609 million out of the LE  Reasonsfor Poor Initial Performance
1,406 million approved for EDP sub-
projects. The NGOs provide an essential    21.   Three factors were at play in the
link to the communities and are able to    poor initial performance of the project and
articulate community concerns well. Their  combined with one another to give the
role will become even more prominent.      project a 'highly unsatisfactory' rating for
Thus, SFD has also been able to attain its  the first eighteen months and to cause the
objective of working in partnership with   Bank to spend an unprecedented amount on
NGOs. Initially it had to rely primarily on  supervision. They were: lack of Government



9
understanding and ownership of the project;  of preparatory activities after credit signing,
failure of the Bank to integrate the project  as well as funding  for the  initial
sufficiently  into  the  macroeconomic    administrative budget of the Social Fund,
dialogue; and  lengthy  start up  time    the start of initial operations would have
following Board approval and signing.     taken much longer.
22.   Lack of Government Understanding    Reasonsfor project turnaround
and failure of the Bank to include project in
macroeconomic dialogue: The Social Fund   24.   Use of high level meetings in 1992:
was a parallel and complementary project to  Bank management used the Brussels Donor
the IMF ESAL and the Bank's Structural    meeting in April 1992 and the High Level
Adjustment Loan, all supporting  the      Review between the Government, IDA and
Government's Economic Recovery and        the European Commission (the largest co-
Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP).   financier) in December, 1992 as tools to
But the  Government did  not really       concentrate  the  attention  of  senior
understand the role or nature of the project  Government officials on the project in order
and consequently did not own it. There   to achieve a turnaround. This along with the
were several reasons for this. First, the  intensive  technical  level  supervision
Bank did not adequately explain the project  described below was an important factor in
concept  to  the  Government  during      achieving  a  turnaround  in  project
preparation, and the dialogue between Bank  performance.
management and senior Government
officials was heavily focused on the SAL  25.   Autonomous status of SFD: During
during the preparation phase. Second, what  project preparation the Bank insisted that
limited dialogue there was rushed because  the Government create an autonomous
the project timetable was linked to that of  institution that was exempt from  civil
the SAL. Finally, the dialogue between the  service  personnel  and   procurement
technical staff  of  the Bank and their  regulations. SFD was established under
counterparts on the SFD project was not  these conditions by presidential decree in
sufficiently incorporated into the overall  1991. This was a major achievement in
dialogue and the obvious problems of      Egypt.   However it proved to be a
understanding and ownership were brushed  necessary, but not a sufficient condition for
aside. Consequently senior Government     effective project implementation as it failed
officials, including those who were to be  to insulate SFD  sufficiently from  the
directly responsible for implementation did  political pressures brought to bear on it.
not own the project design.               One offsetting benefit from having several
Cabinet Ministers sit on the Board of
23.   Lengthy start-up  time:  Initial    Directors was that they helped facilitate
implementation was hampered by the time it  project execution in the initial years.
took after project approval to establish the
Social Fund. This included finding office  26.   Reformed Governance structure of
space, obtaining an administrative budget,  SFD and caliber of SFD personnel: The
establishing  a basic  employment and     problems noted above were resolved by
compensation scheme, recruiting a core   three actions. First the President reaffirmed
group of staff. These practical aspects were  the autonomous nature of the Social Fund at
largely overlooked in the implementation  a meeting with all the associated parties in
plan and took over one year to resolve.   1992. Second the Government established a
Without the substantial cooperation of    small Executive Committee (EC) and gave
UNDP which provided continued financing  the managing director full responsibility for



10
day to day operations. The EC chaired by   Other Factors
the Minister of Planning in his capacity as
chairman of the Board of Directors of SFD  29.   Participatory  approach:    The
with six other members including the MD    demand driven approach adopted by SFD in
was established in 1992 and it quickly     designing, implementing and evaluating
became the locus of effective decision     sub-projects introduced a new mechanism
making. As the SFD developed a better      for encouraging community and NGO
track record, it attracted high quality    participation in local social and economic
candidates for management and staff who    development projects. SFD established a
were  placed  on  performance  based       new relationship with these groups and gave
contracts. The combination of high level   them major responsibilities for sub-project
political support, a high quality staff and a  implementation. This represented a major
well-defined administrative structure and  break from the centralized control approach
procedures have been the major factor in   preferred  by the Government towards
improved performance. SFD now has the      community level projects in Egypt up to that
reputation of being one of the best managed  time.
and effective institutions in Egypt.
30. Targeting: A well conceptualized
27.   Direct supervision of the project:   targeting system  was developed, but its
From  July 1993, the Task Manager was      application proved difficult.  This was
moved to Cairo to directly supervise the   because  the  institution  was  under
project on a close to full time basis with  tremendous pressure to disburse and thus
periodic assistance from  Head Quarters.   initial activities were focused on supporting
When project performance became fully      activities that were ready to be financed.
satisfactory, the responsibility  of task  These were not necessarily in poor areas of
management reverted back to Headquarters   Egypt, which generally had less absorptive
in 1996.                                   capacity and weaker local institutions. In
the last three years SFD has paid a lot of
28.   Role of the Donors: Donors played    attention to stimulating and supporting
a major role in supporting the SFD in its  programs and projects from poor areas of
first phase.   They provided financial     the country and to strengthening their local
support, joined  the  Bank  in  putting    institutions. It has done this by providing
sustained pressure on the Government to    funding and technical assistance to poor
resolve issues in the initial stages of project  communities for project preparation, by
preparation, and several by conducting high  introducing programs targeted  at poor
quality appraisals of their own prior to   communities and by conducted a series of
committing  funds helped  ensure high      impact studies to identify beneficiaries and
technical standards in the operations of the  to fine tune the targeting system. Targeting
Social Fund. The strong support of the     needs to be sharpened further under Phase
donors can be attributed to two main       II.
factors, namely, in seeing that a workable
social safety net was in place for the start of  31.   Enterprise Development component.
the adjustment program and that the large  As noted earlier this component has recently
amount of funds that they had committed    developed problems.  The EDP, at its
was effectively used.                      inception, was designed primarily as a "job-
creation" mechanism to assist entrepreneurs
and to disburse loans quickly and efficiently
without much regard for issues concerning
the sustainability or the quality of the



11
portfolio.  The monitoring system  was     million. The Government has requested a
designed on this basis.   Consequently     third phase project for FY2000.
reporting to the Social Fund on arrearages
and financial indicators was relatively poor  34.   There   were - five  individual
and the Social Fund has not been insisting  programs built in to the original project
on the legally required compliance reviews  design. As already mentioned in paragraph
prior to new disbursements. Thus the Social  15, the Transport program was dropped in
Fund was slow to spot these problems. It is  1995 on grounds of lack of sustainability - a
now taking a number of remedial measures   review concluded that the original design
and once the new SEDO takes over the       concept was not compatible with the
administration of the EDP in 1998 it will be  objectives of the Social Fund and that to be
run  on  sound  financial and  banking     sustainable  a program  needed  to  be
principles. This program will require very  accompanied by urban transport sector
careful supervision in Phase II.           policy reforms, which the Social Fund was
not well equipped to address. The Labor
32    Labor mobility component:  The       Mobility Program was well designed and
labor mobility component was the only      financed but was premature. It has evolved
component linked directly to the Economic  into   a   broader  Human   Resource
Reform  Program.  It was designed to       Development Program  with a focus of
provide support services to labor displaced  supporting  demand  driven  training  in
under the public enterprise reform  and    association with the private sector.  In
privatization program. This program was    principle this is the right direction to go, but
subject to long delays by the Government   effectiveness and sustainability need to be
and therefore this component did not       carefully monitored. This is being done in
achieve the expected results. The proceeds  trilateral discussions between the Social
of the IDA  credit allocated for this      Fund, the Ministry of Education and IDA.
component were re-allocated  to  other     It is too early to assess the sustainability of
components.                                the EDP. Initial results are mixed as a result
of inadequate program  design.   The
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                  outcome of the measures taken to rectify the
situation, primarily the establishment of
33.   There  are  four  aspects  to        SEDO, will need to be carefully monitored
sustainability: overall project sustainability,  and assessed.
the sustainability of the four individual
programs under the project, sustainability of  35.   Although there is continuing strong
sub-projects, and sustainability of the Social  demand in the second phase of the project
Fund as an institution.  Overall project   for the public works program and for the
sustainability is likely.  SFD has proven  community development program included
itself as an  effective mechanism  for     in the first phase, there is an issue of
employment generation and for poverty      sustainability   of  the   infrastructure
reduction.  It created on average about    improvements at the sub-project level. It
90,000  jobs  per  year  primarily  by     arises in three ways. First financing for
supporting   small  enterprises   which    operations and maintenance on a continuing
previously had no access to banks. The     basis has been a problem. Governorates and
PWP and CDP programs have also made        local  administrations  provided  legal
substantial contributions to employment. A  assurances to provide funding but in
second phase project has just started and is  practice  central  Government  budget
supported by donor financing of $775       tightness and their lack of legal authority to
raise revenue locally has been a significant



12
problem. SFD has been addressing these     F. BANK PERFORMANCE
issues in the last two years by insisting on
beneficiary contribution to costs of sub-  37.   Bank  performance  during  the
projects (the average to date has been 10%)  preparation  and  appraisal phase  was
and financing maintenance as a part of the  generally unsatisfactory. The Social Fund
sub-project costs. It is continuing to review  for Development (SFD) was a parallel
other ideas to ensure sustainable results on  project to the Structural Adjustment Loan
the ground. These include revising the law  (SAL). It seems that Bank management did
governing NGOs (Law  64 of 1962) to        not fully  explain the project to  the
permit Local Development Administrations   Government and the dialogue between the
(LDAs) and NGOs to establish 0 & M units   Bank and the senior officials was heavily
at village level and to have the authority to  focused on the SAL during the preparation
collect service fees and manage them. A    phase. The dialogue between the technical
second lesser problem area is that there is  staff of the Bank and their counterparts on
scattered evidence that technical standards  the SFD  project was not sufficiently
for some public works infrastructure may   incorporated into the overall dialogue.
not have been conducive to sustainability as  Consequently, the Bank was unable to get
criteria for minimum viable size were not  senior Government officials to own the
met sometimes as a result of accepting     project design.   Resources for project
demand driven projects. SFD is revising its  preparation were inadequate and the Bank
eligibility criteria accordingly. A third and  relied heavily on financial support from the
more  serious reason  for sustainability   UNDP to finance consultants to do the
problems has been a combination of a lack  detailed design work. This approach also
of  institutional  support,  training  of  weakened the preparation process of the
contractors, and the occasional lack of    project as the Bank did not have full control
beneficiary  involvement  in  project      at a time when speed became of the essence.
identification, design and implementation.
SFD is intensifying its capacity building  38    Bank performance moved  from
support to local institutions and NGOs     unsatisfactory to satisfactory by late 1991 as
particularly in poor areas.                it became clear that the project which could
not be allowed to fail faced very serious
36.   Sustainability  of  SFD  as  an      implementation problems.  Three major
institution is assured over the medium-term  steps were taken by the Bank to strengthen
as there is high interest and support from the  Bank supervision. As a first step, the Bank
Government and the donors. Furthermore,    designated a senior staff member supported
SFD has proven to be an important vehicle  by two more staff to supervise the project
to help central authorities work with      on a full time basis. This effort was
regional authorities: it has shown very good  supported by timely regional management
results on the ground and in helping build  intervention at high levels within the
capacity  at  the  regional  and  local    Government to break various logiams. The
Government level and has developed into    new approach started to yield results and
one of the most efficient and effective    culminated at the Brussels's Donor meeting
agencies in the country with a low ratio of  which took place April 1992 and the High
administrative costs to commitments. The   Level Review in December 1992.  The
long-term future of SFD is not yet clear and  second step was to place a full time Task
is a question that the Government and SFD  Manager in Cairo in July, 1993 to supervise
will address during the course of Phase II.  the project. This greatly helped project
performance. When performance became
satisfactory the responsibility of task



13
management reverted back to the Head       internal   efficiency,  targeting   and
Quarters.  Finally as the third step, the  sustainability.
regular supervision team was supplemented
by  senior staff members  in  various      42.   Objectives: As noted in Part B the
disciplines  (financial management and     SFD has been successful in meeting two of
accounting,  engineering,  infrastructure  its three objectives, mitigating the negative
economists, microenterprise specialist, IT  short and longer term  impacts of the
specialist). This level of effort was deemed  adjustment program.  It did not play a
necessary given the size and visibility of the  significant  role  supporting  redundant
project as a central component of the      workers  because  the  pace  of  the
adjustment program.                        Government's      privatization   and
restructuring program was much slower
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                    than anticipated, and has only recently
begun to accelerate. The second objective -
39.   Borrower performance  improved       creation of employment opportunities for
from unsatisfactory during the preparation  Gulf returnees was partially met. The time
and appraisal to satisfactory and highly   it took to prepare the project and subsequent
satisfactory  during  the  implementation  delays in establishing the Social Fund and in
stages. Initially the Government failed to  making it operational meant that most Gulf
focus on the purpose and objective of SFD  returnees had been reabsorbed  in the
and underestimated the detailed planning   economy by the time Social Fund was ready
required for a successful launch. There was  to help. In retrospect it is clear that this
also no clear locus of responsibility within  second objective while politically appealing
Government for getting the project launched  was unrealistic. The same cannot be said of
and the first Managing Director appointed  the support to redundant workers. It was
had to be replaced.                        important to have a program in place for
what in all countries is a politically delicate
40.   Beginning  with  the  Brussels's     issue and there was no other agency capable
Donor  meeting  in  April  1992, the       of operating such a program. The Social
Government performance steadily improved   Fund did an excellent job of designing a
and became satisfactory after the High     comprehensive set of labor redundancy
Level Review in December 1992. Though      programs with technical assistance from
problems existed, their intensity reduced  Canada, and went far beyond its mandate in
and there was steady improvement from      trying to put them in place. It essentially
1992 until 1997.  Good high level and      took over the labor market related functions
technical   dialogue   developed   and     of  the  ineffective  Public  Enterprise
Government took ownership of the project   Organization (PEO) that was supported by a
and started to view the project as an      US$9  million  IDA  credit under the
instrument for poverty  reduction  and     Technical Assistance project (Cr. 2402).
employment  generation.    Government      But absent Government willingness to
insisted on full accountability of SFD and  proceed with the program it could do very
full application of its operational criteria.  little.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                   43.   Quantitative achievements: There
were no prior quantitative targets. But the
41.   Outcome is assessed in six ways -    quantitative outcomes achieved by the
against original obJectives, quantitative  Social Fund have been impressive (Annex 1
achievements, multiple funding channels,   and Statistical Table 6) and they were
achieved in a cost effective manner. The



14
project has created some 370,000 permanent  independent ongoing  study  of NGO
and temporary jobs - 65 percent of the jobs  capacity  (Egypt  PVO  Sector  Study,
are permanent and were about 25 percent of  Latowsky, 1997), which will be available
all non-agricultural jobs created during the  shortly. The SFD is making major efforts to
period. Through its programs it has reached  expand the institutional capacity of NGOs
nearly 17 million beneficiaries (about 28  under Phase I.
percent of the total population).  Job
creation costs compare favorably with other  45.   Targeting:  There is no rigorous
countries (see paragraph 4).   Annual      quantitative data to determine whether the
disbursements amounted to only 0.2 percent  SFD met its targeting objectives.  These
of GDP and over the period FY92-97 a total  were very broad as they included low
of US$701 million was disbursed.  An       income families, unemployed youth and
additional US$38 million was committed     new graduates, as well as Gulf returnees and
but was not disbursed as of June 30, 1997.  displaced  workers.    Female  headed
The SFD achieved satisfactory quantitative  households and women were targets under
outcomes in two of its four programs -     the Community Development and enterprise
public works and community development.    development programs. Once SFD began
It achieved major quantitative outcomes    operations it developed  a  geographic
under the enterprise development program,  targeting system that was based on poverty
which accounted for 60 percent of all      and unemployment. The poverty index was
employment created. It achieved much less  used  primarily  for  the  Community
under the labor mobility program for the   Development   program    while  the
reasons already noted.                     unemployment index was used primarily in
the Enterprise Development Program. The
44.   Multiple Funding Channels:  An       Public Works Program used both indices.
important goal of the Social Fund was to   An analysis of targeting outcomes against
diversify funding channels and reduce      these more specific criteria is contained in
reliance on public sector intermediaries over  Annex 1 and summarized here. It includes a
the life of the project. This was to improve  review of three Impact Assessment studies
internal efficiency, to spread risk and to  conducted by the SFD. For the Community
engage a wider variety of intermediaries in  Development Progran, Governorates with
socio-economic development on a larger     high poverty indices received both relatively
scale than heretofore. No goals were set  less resources and technical/ institutional
originally but at the High Level Review of  building support than those with lower
December, 1992 it was agreed that 40       indices. Under the Public Works Program
percent of disbursed  funds would be       Govemorates with higher unemployment
allocated to Governorates, 20 percent to  indices received a lower share of resources,
central government ministries and agencies,  while for the Enterprise Development
and 40 percent to NGOs and banks. Actual   Program resources were evenly allocated.
outcomes were 27 percent to Governorates,  Within Governorates the poor were reached
10  percent to  central ministries and    quite well as a large portion of SFD
agencies, 56 percent to NGOs and banks (of  resources went to create unskilled and semi-
which 12 percent to NGOs alone), and 7     skilled jobs which correlate with poverty in
percent to other, notably public sector    Egypt.    Overall 38  percent of all
enterprises.  Overall this is a creditable  beneficiaries were women and 64 percent
achievement as the use of NGOs as          were rural populations, both of which
intermediaries was constrained by their lack  groups are heavily represented among the
of institutional capacity. This finding has  25-30 percent of the population living
been confirmed by the initial findings of an  below the poverty line in Egypt.  The



15
beneficiary population has been satisfied  reform or increased competition due to trade
with  the  quality  of  SFD  services.     liberalization, as well as an active program
Qualitative Satisfaction Surveys included in  of institutional development. An IDA credit
two of the Impact Assessment studies found  amount of SDR 82.3 million was approved
that 95 percent of beneficiaries reported an  by the Bank on April 25, 1996 and became
improvement in self esteem and 90 percent  effective on May 28, 1997.
of health project beneficiaries reported
improved health security. While only 26    48.   IDA  also provided a SDR  11.9
percent of literacy  education  project    million credit to undertake a Population
beneficiaries found that the training had  Project with the objective of reducing
improved their employment potential, 93    fertility among the low income couples of
percent reported that it had facilitated their  reproductive age group in areas of Egypt
daily activities like paying bills and reading  where fertility remains high, mainly in rural
letters. In summary the SFD had mixed      Upper Egypt. The program will be managed
results in achieving targeting outcomes.   by SFD on behalf of Ministry of Health and
However the major factor driving the results  Population. The credit is expected to
was lack of institutional capacity in both the  become effective in February 1998. The
public, private and NGO sectors at the local  SFD has also requested a third Social Fund
level in poorer Governorates. The SFD has  project for FY00 for which it is prepared to
recognized this from the beginning and as  borrow IBRD funds.
noted elsewhere in this report has funded a
wide range of capacity building programs.  J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
However these take time to show results.
This will continue to be an area of        49.   It is costly to turn an unsatisfactory
concentration during Phase II.             project around  during  implementation:
when the basic design is right, and when
46.   Sustainability:    Sustainability    Government understands and supports a
outcomes were reviewed in Section E. In    project that is managed by high quality
summary while overall sustainability and   management and staff and it is strongly
sustainability of the SFD as an institution  supported and supervised by IDA, it is
are assured, there are several specific issues  possible  to  turn  around  a  highly
relating  to  sustainability  of individual  unsatisfactory project.  However it uses
programs and sub-projects financed. These  more resources and requires a greater effort
are being actively addressed by the SFD and  than if the project had been fully prepared in
it plans to make this a focus of attention  the first place. The Bank spent US$785,000
during Phase II.                           and 319 staffweeks on supervision between
FY92-97 (approximately US$130,00 and 53
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS                       staffweeks per year). This compares with a
planned US$400,000 and 174 staffweeks
47.   The project is being continued       (US$67,000 and 29 staffweeks per year) and
under the second SFD Project supported by  with the present all Egypt portfolio average
US$775 million of donor financing. The     of about US$40,000  and  about  16
second SFD will build on the strengths of  staffweeks per year.  Supervision costs
the first phase and will continue to support  amounted to 0.5 percent of the IDA credit
the  five  programs during  1997-2000,     amount and 0.1 percent of total project cost.
including  labor-intensive  public works;  The Government also incurred substantial
community development projects; small and  additional costs as well.
microenterprise development; and support
to workers made redundant by public sector



16
50.   It  is  important  to  assure        preparation viewpoint because the project
Government ownership ahead of time: The    had to be presented as a part of the overall
project lacked several key requirements of a  IMF-Bank structural adjustment package in
well prepared project at its beginning and  June, 1991. Donors were also seeking an
initial implementation progress was very   effective mechanism  through which to
slow. In particular Government ownership   channel  additional  aid  commitments
and understanding were not considered      promised after the Gulf War and the SFD
sufficiently during preparation or appraisal,  quickly became a mechanism  of choice.
the Bank failed to integrate the project   Once the SFD became operational it was
sufficiently  into  its  macroeconomic     besieged by central government agencies
dialogue with the Government (it was       which wanted portions of the funds. This
treated  as  a  necessary  but residual    issue became less serious after the President
component of the adjustment package) and   of Egypt stated to his Cabinet in 1994 that
the time and effort to establish a new     the SFD was responsible for its funds, must
institution were underestimated. The lesson  apply its funding eligibility criteria, and had
is the importance of conducting a dialogue  the  right to  supervise  all benefiting
to  obtain  high  level  Government        organizations.   The SFD  also had to
commitment of all components of an         undertake a major promotional campaign to
adjustment package and to ensure that      explain the modus operandi of the Social
Government is prepared to commit the       Fund to political influentials.   Certain
resources to get the project up and        donors played  an  invaluable  role  in
operational.                               supporting the Government and the Bank in
turning the project around. Other donors
51.   The basic project design was sound:  insisted on proceeding at a more measured
Project design and design of the SFD as an  pace  and  conducted  very  thorough
institution  with  management autonomy     appraisals of their own before committing
turned out to be satisfactory. The freedom  funds well after the start o the project. Both
of the SFD to recruit management and staff  of these types of interventions were very
competitively  and  on  a  performance     positive for the project.
contract basis, to have operational flexibility
and to make fast disbursements for sub-    53.   Catalystfor Change: The SFD has
projects evaluated against clear criteria were  been a catalyst for change in the way public
decisively important. Bank insistence on   business gets done in Egypt.  It has
adhering to the design and the gradual     introduced  or greatly  expanded  initial
realization of senior Government that they  efforts by others to develop demand driven
had a tool for effective delivery of social  programs, decentralized decision making,
programs to the poor and their subsequent  community level participation, and the use
ownership were important for subsequent    of public-private partnerships between the
turnaround.  Sustained high level Bank     private, NGO and Government. It has also
management  attention  combined  with      demonstrated that a public sector operation
intensive supervision worked.              can be run efficiently and effectively and
deliver good quality services.  It has
52.   Political pressures are strong and   projected a service oriented government
can only be countered by strong leadership  presence into areas of Egypt especially
from the top: The project has been under    Upper Egypt rarely touched by government
strong  political  pressures  from  the    at all at a time when these were needed. It
beginning.    Initially  the  Bank  and    has given a strong gender focus to its
Government were pushed to act more         operations and is one of the first agencies in
quickly than desirable from  a project     Egypt to have a specialized gender unit



17
responsible for 'mainstreaming gender into  concludes.  In addition the Government
SFD operations.  The SFD has been an       needs to continue to develop an integrated
active participant in the national dialogue on  social protection strategy of which the SFD
social and economic change. It has had an  is an important part.  This will help
impact difficult to measure but real on    determine the most useful long term role for
attitudinal change in Egypt towards self   the Social Fund to the Government. Under
reliance,   entrepreneurship,   decreased  Phase II of the project, the SFD will
dependency of the individual on the state,  undertake a lot of work in these areas. It
on the attitude of the labor unions and    also plans to draw on the experience of
public sector employees to the need for    other Social Funds worldwide through the
privatization and labor adjustment in public  new Middle East and North Africa Social
sector enterprises.                        Fund Network to be established in 1998.
This will link it to the global network of
54.   Major work remains ahead: The        Social Funds also being established in 1998
Egypt SFD faces the same issues with       under the leadership of the Red Social and
respect to its long term role especially vis-a-  Africatip networks for Latin America and
vis line ministries, targeting, sustainability,  Sub-Saharan Africa respectively.
impact assessment, decentralization, future
role in stimulating the development of NGO  55.   The Egypt SFD experience validates
associations   and   partnerships,  the    generally accepted principles developed by
appropriateness of having a microenterprise  the Bank for a successful Social Fund,
program in a SFD type project as other     including   the   placement   of   a
Social Funds world wide are facing.        microenterprise program in a Social Fund,
Essentially these are issues of maturation as  as set out in its Review of the Social Funds
the 'emergency' phase of SFD operations    Portfolio report of March, 1997.






STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Missions



2
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.    Achievementofoiectives    Substantial   Pai     Negligible    Notapplicable
Macro policies                                                       x
Sector policies                                                      x
Financial objectives                                                 x
Institutional Development         x
Physical objectives               x
Poverty reduction                 x
Gender issues                     x
Other social objectives           x
Environmental objectives                                             x
Public sector management                                             x
Private sector development        x
B.    Project sustainability             Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
x
C.    BankPerformace                     Highly        Satisfatry   Deficient
Satisfactor
Identification                                         x
Preparation                                                      x
Appraisal                                              x
Supervision                                            x
D.    Borrower Performance        Hily          Satisfacty      Deficient
satisfactorv
Preparation                                                   x
Implementation                                  x
Covenant compliance                             x
Operation                      x
E.    Assessment of Outcome       Highly        Satisfactory   Unsatisfa
satisfactx
x



3
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/ CREDITS
Loan Title               Purpose           Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
NA                            NA                    NA                 NA
Following Operations    Create jobs and support        1996         Effective May 26,
community infrastructure                          1997
1. Social Fund II      and services in partnership
Project (Cr. 2865)      with NGOs and local
groups
2 . Populatio ProFertility reduction using                     To become
2. Population Project   NGsadlcl1996                                   effective by
(Cr. 2830)              NGOs and local                                 efcieb
community organizations                      February, 1998
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned       Date Actual
Identification                                                     12/13/89
Preparation                                                        11/08/90
Appraisal                                       02/15/91           03/07/91
Negotiations                                    04/15/91           05/16/91
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)
Board Presentation                              05/18/91           06/21/91
Signing                                         07/15/91           09/26/91
Effectiveness                                   10/15/91           04/06/92
First tranche release (if applicable)           NA                 NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                  11/24/93           11/24/93
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  NA             NA
Project completion                              12/31/96           06/30/97
Loan closing                                    06/30/97           06/30/97



4
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal Estimate        |           6.00   34.00    70.00    110.00   130.50   133.00
Actual *                     -        -      12.00    29.42    65.27    124.88   153.83
Actual as % of estimate                      35.30    42.02    59.33    96.10    115.60
Date of final disbursement    06/91    06/92    06/'93   06/94    06/95    06/96    03/97
*Figures reflect fluctuations in SDR value
IDA credit was fully disbursed as of 03/97
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                Estimated                  Actual
No. of temporary jobs created        26,000 (PWP only)              110,000
No. of permanent jobs created        15,000 (PWP only)              252,000
Number of micro-enterprises               70,000                    59,000
B. Indicators Agreed Subsequently
Multiple Funding Channels       40% through Govemorates   27% through
Governorates
20% through central        10% through central
ministries and agencies   ministries and agencies
40% through NGOs           12% through NGOs
44% through commercial
banks
7% through others
C. Other Indicators
Priority survey                     1992-94                    1993
Community survey                    1992-93                    1994
Integrated survey                   1993                       1995
Physical establishment of Social Fund  1991                      1992



5
TABLE 6: KEY OUTPUT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key operating indicators developed by SFD              Estimated                   Actual
as of 12/31/96
PUBLIC WORKS
1. Number of jobs
temporary                                   26,000                  24,139
permanent                                    15,000                  3,538
1a. Number of beneficiaries                            25,206,000              14,206,000
lb. Environmental Infrastructure
*Wastewater networks in km                             NA                      34
*Wastewater treatment plants'                         NA                        4
*Wastewater pump stations2                           NA                        4
*Canal covering in km                              NA                       60
*Canalprotection in km                             NA                      234
*Channel maintenance in km                           NA                     3,432
*Other projects3                                NA                      147
ic. Potable Water
*Networks in km                                  NA                     2,770
*Elevated and ground tanks                           NA                      150
*Artisan wells                                 NA                      186
*Other projects4                                NA                      118
Id. Rural Roads
*Road construction in km                             NA                    1,004
*Road improvement in km                             NA                       80
le. Building Refurbishment                                    NA                      271
*Clinics (units)                                 NA                      284
*Youth centers (units)                             NA                     430
*Schools (units)                                NA                       39
*Social centers (units)                            NA                      127
* Ot her proj'ect
Iby number of sub-projects
2 by number of sub-projects
3include sub-projects such as filling ponds, irrigation, and structural maintenance
4include pump rooms, water stations, and tanks
Sinclude vetenazy units and public services building



6
Table 6 (Continued)
Key operating indicators developed by SFD              Estimated                   Actual
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
2. Number of Jobs
temporary                                  43,230                    23314
permanent                                   78,100                   92555
2a. Number of Beneficiaries                             3,370,000                1,098,668
2b. Health Services                                          NA                        63
*Number of health service units equipped                   NA                       583
*Number of awareness campaigns                         NA                       820
*Number of health personnel trained
2c. Education & Training
*Number of classrooms established                        NA                     1,570
*Number of literacy classes established                  NA                    37,161
*Number of teachers trained to teach                    NA                    37,161
literacy classes
*Number of beneficiaries receiving                     NA                    35,303
vocational training
*Number of training workshops equipped                    NA                        33
2d. Productive Families Loan Program
*Number of borrowers                                      NA                    36,962
*Number of loans                                          NA                    36,911
*Average loan size (US$)                                  NA                       360
*Number ofjob opportunities                                NA                    89,384
*Number of beneficiaries                                   NA                   402,191
2e. NGO capacity building
*Number of NGOs upgraded                                                           1377
2f. Support to Youth & Community Centers
*Number of community centers equipped                      NA                        20
*Number ofyouth centers equipped                           NA                       112
2g. Environment
*Number of environmental projects                                                   65
6 by number of sub-projects
7Every CDP had a component of NGO upgrading which amounted to an average of 7% of the contracted
project amount, and 75% of the CDP are implemented through NGOs



7
Table 6 (Continued)
Key operating indicators developed by SFD              Estimated                   Actual
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
3. Number of jobs                                            NA                    59,040
termporay                                     NA                   153,514
3a. Number of borrowers                                      NA                    59,150
3b. Number of beneficiaries                                  NA                   767,520
3c. Contracted amount (US$)                                                    413 million
3d. Disbursed to SAs/Banks (US$)                             NA              335.8 million
3e. Disbursement to beneficiaries (US$)                      NA              280.6 million
3f. Number of enterprises                                    NA                    53,269
3g. Average. cost per enterprise funded                      NA                      6230
(US$)
NA                     2161
3h. Average cost per job (US$)
EMPLOYMENT AND RETRANING
4. Number of jobs created                                    NA                     3,464
temporaly                                     NA                     2,664
permanent                                     N                       ,6
4a. Labor Adjustment Activities                                                        53
* Number of PEs involved                                                    1,647
* Number of employees getting early                                               571
retirement
* Number of retrained PE employees                                               4775
84
4b. Training Unemployed Graduates
* Number of trained people
* Percentage of female trained (%)
* The numbers provided for the completed operating indicators are for the period ending 1996.



8
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study           appraisal/redefined        Status            Impact of Study
1. Socio-       To target and allocate        Completed     Used in resource allocation
economic study   resources for public works                 for public works program
program
2. PVO sector    To assess financial profile of    Completed    Integration of findings into
study            PVOs and to recommend                      the community development
ways to strengthen it                      component of Social Fund
3. Social welfare  To assess the socio-       Completed     Provided background
study            economic condition of the                  information for the targeting
target group                               system of the Social Fund
4. Labor and     To develop program for       Completed     Zero impact as Government
market study     displaced labor                            delayed public sector
enterprises reform and
privatization program
5. Targeting    To develop internal targeting  Completed    Developed and used as the
study            system                                     basis for the present targeting
system of the Social Fund
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Item               Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  Actual commitments (US$M) as
of 12/31/96 - numbers rounded
.  Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs             costs     costs
Municipal services             165.1    52.5      217.6   NA        NA        183.00
Public transport               10.0      40.0     50.0    0.00      0.00      0.00
Community development          14.1     22.8      36.9    NA        NA        99.00
Enterprise development         80.8     28.8      109.5   NA        NA        408.00
Employment and retraining      68.1      13.9     82.0    NA        NA        48.00
program*
Institutional development      6.4      3.4       9.8     NA        NA        44.00
Contingencies (physical & price)   47.3  19.1     66.4
Total project cost           [99        T1h780
*SFD uses the term " Employment Retraining Progran" instead of "Labor Mobility"
NA= Not Available



9
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Source                     Appraisal Committed  Actual Disbursed    Amount Undisbursed
(US$M)              (US$M)              (US$M)
IDA                                     140.00              153.83
Abu-Dhabi Fund for Social &              25.00               49.84
Economic Development
Arab Fund for Social &                   50.00               46.36
Economic Development
Austria                                                       5.00
Canada                                   10.00                2.49
China                                                                            10.00
Denmark                                  10.00                1.69
Egypt                                                        59.75
European Union                          140.00              229.42
France                                   10.00                7.76                2.49
Germany                                  30.00               50.19               15.50
Holland                                   6.00                8.76                0.88
Ireland                                                       3.12
Kuwait Fund for Arab                     50.00               46.40
Economic Development
Norway                                    2.00                2.07
Sweden                                   10.00                8.34
Switzerland                              30.00               21.20                8.81
UNDP                                      4.00                5.50
TOTAL                                   517.00              701.72               37.68



10
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section   Covenant   Present   Original   Revised   Description of  Comments
Type      Status    Fulfill-   fulfill-   covenant
ment      ment
date      date
22760       2.02b    Financial  Complied   03/30/92  06/01/92  Borrower shall   Done
open a special
account in
Central Bank of
Egypt
22760       3.01a    Financial  Complied   09/30/91            Government to   Done
contribute LE
200m
22760       3.Olb    Imple-     Complied   06/30/97            Compliance      Ongoing
mentation                                with
implementation
program and
with Bank
procurement
guidelines
22760       4.01     Financial  Complied   Continua            Maintain        Ongoing
separate records
for accounts,
audit accounts
and SOEs
22760       4.02     Financial  Complied   12/31/93   12/31/95   SFD to submit   Done
IDA and MOF
plan and
arrangements
for cost
recovery



11
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number & Title               Describe & comment on lack of compliance
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OF NON-COMPLIANCE
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle        Planned                 Revised                Actual
Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks   US$ 000
Through appraisal        NA          NA          NA          NA          125.3      277.9
Appraisal - Board        NA          NA          NA          NA          42.8       97.3
Board - Effectiveness    NA          NA          NA          NA          13.4       32.2
Supervision              174         NA          NA          NA          318.6      785.6
Completion               10          NA          NA          NA          5.5        16.4
TOTAL                    NA          NA          NA          NA          505.6      1209.4
*From July 1993 Mr. Zelaya the Task Manager was transferred to Cairo. Since then, project was supervised directly
from Cairo with technical inputs from HQ as required.



12
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project cycle  M/Y    No.   Day            Specialized           Performance rating           Types of problems
person   s in      staff skills represented
s    field
Implem. Devp.
status    object
-   -                                                   _  __ __                     _         _
Through appraisal    2/90    5      18    SF specialist, Economist,
*Identification                           social development specialist, &    NA    NA       *Lack of Govt. ownership of project
Sr. Economist                                     design
*Pre-appraisal      12/90  4        15    Legal, procurement, inst. devt, &    NA  NA
monitoring specialists
Appraisal through
Board approval                                                                               *Lack of Govt. ownership of project
* Negotiations      5/91    NA     NA   NA                                NA       NA       design
* Board signing     9/91    NA      NA   NA                               NA        NA       *Lengthy delays in establishment of SF &
recruitment of key personnel
Supervision Mission   3/92    3     10    Management specialist, HRD      U         HU       *Lack of Government ownership
specialist, roads Engineer, &
microenterprise specialist                        *lack of understanding of concept &
operations of SF by the Government
Donors meeting      4/92    4       5     Dept. Director, Div. Chief, Task
Manager, & HRD specialist       U        HU       *lengthy delays in establishment of SF &
recruitment of key personnel
Board approval      6/92   NA       NA   NA                               NA        NA       *no progress in implementation for a fast
through effectiveness                                                                        disbursing project



13
Table 12 (Continued)
Stage of project cycle  M/Y  No.    Days             Specialized             Performance              Types of problems
persons   in         staff skills represented       rating
field__                                            __
Implem.  Devp.
status   object.
Supervision         6/92   2        10      Transport economist & engineer   U      HU       *No permanent Managing Director
Labor intensive & HRD specialist
Supervision         7/92   2        8                                      U        HIU      *no funding for severance payments
*reluctance to fund NGOs & private
sector proposed projects
*efforts to use SF to fund ongoing public
sector programs
*micromanagement of SF operations by
the board
*subsidized interest rates for
microenterprise
*weak financial controls; & lack of
administrative budget for SF
Procurement, Targeting,                          *lack of relevance of transport
Supervision         9/92   5        15      monitoring, HRD & management                     components to project objectives
& information system specialist   U     HU
* No permanent managing director



14
Table 12 (Continued)
Stage of project  MNY      No.    Days in            Specialized          Performance rating            Types of problems
cycle                persons    field       staff skills represented
Implem.   Devp.
status    object
Supervision         10/92   12/92    22        Roads engineer              U           HU       *degree of subsidization of interest rates
under microenterprise program;
Financial           12/92            5         Accountant & auditor        U           HU       *lack of relevance of transport
Management Audit            1                                                                   components to project objectives;
High Level Review    12/92           5         Senior Mgr, Task Mgr, &     U           HU       *operational procedures & decentralize
3                  Dept. Mgr                                        management of issues;
*reluctance to fund NGO & private sector
funded programs;
*financial risk issues.
Supervision         2/93    4        5         Comm. devt., municipal      S           U        *maintaining project quality;
transport, Inst. devt. & HRD
specialists
Supervision         7/93    1        10         Economist                  S           U        *establishing & maintaining M & E
systems;
Supervision         0/93    2        8         Labor intensive & HRD       S           S        delays in labor adjustmnent component; &
specialist
Mid-term review     11/93   3        22        Economist, monitoring &      S          S        reallocation of Arab Funds' resources to
HRD specialists                                 microenterprise program.



15
Table 12 (Continued)
Stage of project  MN       No.      Days in           Specialized          Performance rating            Types of problems
cycle                persons    field        staff skills represented
Implem.    Devp.
status    object
Supervision         1/94    1        18         Public transport            S                    *continued delays in labor adjustment
component
Supervision         11/94   2        8                                      S                    *need to fine tune targeting
Supervision         12/95   2        7          Statistician & evaluation   S                    *continued delay in labor adjustment
specialist                                       programs
Supervision         12/96   2        5          Economist, & Management    S            HS
specialist
Completion          6/97    2                   Economist, HRD specialist, &   S         HS
Operational Analyst
* From July 1993 until 1996, the project was supervised by the Resident Mission on close to full time basis with periodic assistance from HQ
staff.



I



Annex 1
How Well did the Egypt Social Fund I Perform?
This note examines the performance of the first Egypt Social Fund (SFD I) with respect to
outputs on-the-ground, internal efficiency, poverty targeting, and sustainability of subproject benefits.
I.    Outputs On-the-Ground
SFD I has supported the creation of significant physical outputs. These are listed by SFD
component in Table I (attached).
II.   Internal Efficiency
In general, the physical outputs of SFD appear to have been produced efficiently. This is
indicated by SFD's operational speed, cost of job-creation, and overhead cost.
Operational Speed. SFD's processing time from the submission of a subproject proposal and
communication of acceptance or rejection to the applicant agency is 3 to 6 weeks. If approved, it takes
between 3-8 weeks to work up and sign a contract. Operational speed for some SFD components is
shown in Table I below
Table I: Average Time For Project Turnaround (in weeks)
1993              1994              1995
Community Development Program
*Submission to approval
-Approval to contract signing               6-8               5-7               4-6
-Signing to first disbursement              6-8               6-8               6-8
4                 4                 4
Enterprise Development
*Submission to approval                     4-8               3-5               3-4
-Approval to contract signing               3-4               2-3               3-4
-Signing to first disbursement              3-4               3-4               3-4
Public Works
-Submission to approval                     6                  4                 3
-Approval to contract signing               3                  2                 2
-Signing to first disbursement              3                  3                2
Source: "Review of Social Fund for Development", Egypt, Economists Advisory Group Ltd, London,
January 1996.
-1 -



Annex 1
As seen in the above table, the speed of turn around has improved over time. Overall, the
administration of NGO projects tends to take longer than for other agencies. SFD procedures and
reporting requirements are reckoned to be quite onerous for small NGOs as reported in a survey of
NGOs. The procedural and reporting burden on small NGOs is being reduced by utilizing larger NGOs
as mentors and trainers for small NGOs.1 Consideration might also be given to the furither streamlining
of procedures. Turnaround time can be reduced by ensuring that proposals are presented by NGOs in a
more "ready" form. This would require that the appraisal and supervision procedures for each subproject
in the menu of eligible subprojects are more clearly defined and that this information is widely
disseminated to NGOs and other prospective sponsoring agencies.
Cost of Job-creation. SFD met its employment creation objectives with annual expenditures
equivalent to only 0.2 percent of GDP, or about 6 percent of annual donor flows to Egypt. This job
creation cost compares favorably with other countries based on data from various units within the World
Bank. See Table II below.
Table II: Cost of Job Creation for Different Social Funds in US $/Job
Egypt      Honduras  Nicaragua  Madagasc  Bolivia    Senegal    Ghana
ar
Cost per   1,401      2,120      2,580      786        2,700      5,445      2,122
job at
Market
Exchange
rates
Cost per   7,212      9,759      14,302     3,260      9,388      12,100     10,610
job at PPP
Exchange
rates
Source: Bank StaffEstimates
I/ -Review of Social Fund for Development: Egypt", Economists Advisory Group Ltd, London, 1996.
- 2 -



Annex 1
Overhead Costs. "SFD is a small and efficient group of highly motivated managers and staff
with a good understanding of the Social Fund Program objectives and a good grasp of the necessary tools
to implement them" (World Bank, 1993, IDA Mid-Term Project Evaluation). This has resulted in low
overhead costs -- the budget for SFD technical secretariat operations amounts to under 3 percent of the
funds for contracted projects and funds disbursed. These overhead costs include the initial start-up
expenses for building the necessary infrastructure, i.e., offices, equipment, furniture, vehicles etc., which
will not be incurred to the same extent again. It also includes the costs incurred to start ten Regional
Offices for enhanced geographical reach and increased local participation in project formulation,
implementation and subsequent management. With respect to the EDP component, the overhead cost is
6 percent of disbursements. While these figures may not be strictly speaking comparable to overhead
costs in other Social Funds because of differences in the definition of "overhead cost", overall, SFD
appears to be an efficient organization.
III.   Poverty Targeting
Low income families are one of SFD's target groups. However, the maximum level of incomes
that would render families ineligible for SFD benefits has not been specified. Unemployed youth, new
graduates, employees wishing to leave their jobs in the public enterprises or those that are displaced, and
unemployed graduates of universities and intermediate level institutes are other SFD target groups; these
groups are most definitely not the poorest and, perhaps, not even necessarily poor. Table III below
presents SFD's intended target groups by component.
Table ff: Social Fund Target Groups
Public Works Program             Low income families in rural and impoverished urban areas,
the unemployed particularly new graduates, individuals living
in unserviced areas, small local entrepreneurs and/or
contractors, individuals working on the public works project.
Community Development Program    Low income families especially in governorates with a high
poverty index, women and children in rural and urban poverty
zones, unemployed youth.
Enterprise Development Program   Small entrepreneurs, new graduates, unemployed, women,
employees wishing to leave their jobs in public enterprises.
Employment and Retraining Program   Workers that may be displaced as a result of public enterprise
restructuring, unemployed graduates of universities and
intermediate level institutes.
Institutional Development Program    Government agencies, ministries, NGOs and Social Fund
staff.
Source: SFD Annual Report, 1993, Egypt.
Did SFD reach the its intended target groups? While rigorous quantitative data to answer this
question is not available, a number of parameters can be examined to arrive at some sense of the
targeting effectiveness of SFD. The paragraphs below attempt to do so based on SFD's geographic
targeting record and the magnitude and nature of benefits provided.
- 3 -



Annex 1
(i)    Geographic targeting
SFD I relied on geographic targeting to direct resources to Governorates with high levels of
poverty and unemployment. Community Development Program (CDP) resources were targeted
geographically based on a poverty index2 while Enterprise Development Program (EDP) resources were
targeted geographically based on an unemployment index.3
Community Development Program (CDP). Ferghany (1992) ranked the 26 governorates of
Egypt based on the poverty index. Each of the governorates was allocated a specific share of CDP
resources based on this index and the governorate's population size. As of March 31, 1995 the three
govemorates with the highest poverty index, i.e., Minya, Beheira, and Sharkiya had received 33 percent,
22 percent, and 34 percent respectively of their individual CDP resource allocations.   Seven
governorates, i.e., Suez, New Valley, Port Said, Asswan, Matruh, Ismailia, and Sohag received more
resources than were allocated to them. Suez received over 400 percent of its allocation and the rest of
the governorates received over 100 percent of their respective allocations. See Table V (attached) These
governorates had relatively low poverty indices. This discrepancy may be explained by the higher
absorptive capacity in the governorates with a low poverty index.
Data up to early 1995 show that CDP's promotion and institution building activities have
focused on Ismailia, North Sinai, Gharbiya, Menoufia, Minya, Sohag, Assuit, Beni Suef, Qena, and
Aswan govemorates. Only Minya, Assuit, Gharbiya, and Qena figure among the top ten highest poverty
index governorates. Two results emerge: (a) the governorates with high poverty indices have received
relatively lower shares of the resources allocated to them; and (b) CDP promotion and institution
building activities have not focussed sufficiently on governorates with high poverty indices where
institutional capacity is probably weaker.
Enterprise Development Program (EDP). Ferghany (1992) also ranked the 26 governorates of
Egypt according to the unemployment index. Allocations of EDP resources have been established for
each of the governorates based on this index and the governorate's population size. As of March 31,
1995 the three govemorates with the highest unemployment index, i.e., Cairo, Alexandria, and Daqahliya
had received 19 percent, 17 percent, and 53 percent respectively of their individual EDP resource
allocations. Three governorates, i.e., Red Sea, North Sinai, and Fayum received more resources than
were allocated to them. Red Sea received over 400 percent of its allocation, North Sinai received over
250 percent of its allocation, and Fayum received over 100 percent of its allocation. See Table VI
(attached). These governorates had low unemployment indices. Once again, this discrepancy may be
explained by the fact that there has been a higher demand for EDP loans from governorates with low
unemployment indices (which also happen to be govemorates with low poverty indices).
2/ The poverty index is composed of six variables: female illiteracy rate, proportion of individuals in households without drinking water
from a public network in the housing unit, proportion of individuals in households without a kitchen, ratio of expenditures on total food
household expenditures, relative drop in the average annual expenditure per person in the households, and proportion of households
using kerosene as the sole source of energy. See 'Second Phase of Targeting for Social Fund", Final Report, Nader Ferghany, 1992.
3/ The unemployment index is defined as the maximum relative total unemployment rate (relative to a maximum of 1000). See 'Second
Phase of Targeting for Social Fund", Final Report, Nader Ferghany, 1992.
-4 -



Annex 1
(ii)   Types of Activities Supported and Beneficiary Profile
Table VII provides some partial information on the characteristics of SFD jobs and SFD
beneficiaries. It indicates that a significant number of beneficiaries were persons living in rural areas,
women and beneficiaries of temporary employment projects. In general these categories of beneficiaries
in Egypt are more heavily represented among those below the poverty line; and reaching them implies a
favorable targeting outcome. Further examination of beneficiary characteristics could be done by
analyzing the jobs created by SFD that were unskilled or semi-skilled jobs because, in general, those
benefiting from unskilled and semi-skilled jobs are likely to be poor. This data was not available for this
paper.
5-



Annex 1
Table IV: Direct SFD Beneficiaries and Types of Jobs Created
Of direct    Of direct  Of total    Of total   Of total   Of total  Of total
beneficia-   beneficia  jobs      jobs         jobs      jobs      jobs
ries, %     -ries, %    created, %   created,  created,   created,  created,
rural       female   temporary  percentage   %           %          % semi-
permanent  unskilled  skilled    skilled
Community      73          66         20          80          N/A       N/A        N/A
Developme
nt Program
Public         N/A          1         88          12          N/A       N/A        N/A
Works
Programn
Enterprise     N/A         25         28          82           N/A      N/A        N/A
Develop-
ment
Program     _
Source: SFD, Egypt, 1997. The temporary and permanent job figures are for 1995. The percentages of rural and female
beneficiaries are from the 1996 SFD Annual Report.. The female beneficiaries figure for the PWP is from the 1995 SFD
Annual Report 1995 (p. 25).
Community Development Program (CDP). CDP activities include the provision of loans (36
percent of disbursement), as well as grants (64 percent of disbursements). The main activities financed
by CDP loans were livestock-raising (48 percent), garments/food/wood and metal works/other (34
percent), and trading activities (11 percent). The average size of CDP loans disbursed is approximately
US $500). Assuming there was limited repeat borrowing, the relatively small average size of loans
provided through the CDP loan component would indicate that CDP loan beneficiaries were relatively
low income individuals.
The main activities financed by CDP grants are outlined in Table VIII (attached) under the
categories of education, health, environment, handicrafts, institution building, and vocational training.
Table IX (attached) indicates the benefits delivered by some CDP grant projects for which information
was available during the mission. While many of these activities are likely to be self-targeted to
relatively poor groups, for example, literacy campaigns, rehabilitating or equipping public health clinics,
garbage collection, latrine construction, and elderly care, the poverty targeting of some of the other
activities, for example, legal literacy, cobalt unit for cancer detection and treatment, and training for
families of employees of the CID company (a public sector company) is not self-evident and needs
careful monitoring. Overall, there appears to be scope for refining the types of activities supported by
CDP grants by focusing on basic, primary level social service provision, and simple activities which are
more likely to benefit poorer groups.
-6 -



Annex 1
Enterprise Development Program (EDP). As of March 1995, EDP loans were mainly directed to
clothing/food/wood and metal works/handicraft/other production (40 percent), livestock raising (22
percent), services (22 percent), and trading (12 percent). The average size of EDP is approximately
US$4000, although 55 percent of EDP loans are for less than US$2500.
A review of the types of activities financed by EDP loans indicates that most were activities that
small entrepreneurs would typically undertake, although some, for example, photo laboratories, print
shops, and computer facilities may attract relatively better-off entrepreneurs -- such entrepreneurs
probably have access to other sources of financing and, if so, should be discouraged from taking EDP
loans. Greater efforts could be made in SFD's next phase to reach the smaller of the small entrepreneurs
especially in rural areas since it is these entrepreneurs who are more likely to lack alternative sources of
financing. SFD resources should be channeled to those without assets or access to credit. However, it
may be noted that EDP's intended target groups are not necessarily the poor (see Table IV); to this
extent, not all EDP beneficiaries should be expected to be poor.
In sum, it appears that there is scope for improving SFD's targeting effectiveness especially its
geographic targeting. This would require that efforts are made to direct a higher proportion of SFD
resources to Governorates with higher poverty and unemployment indices. This will require an increased
emphasis on the identification and building-up of institutions in poor and remote areas and providing
extensive support to them in order to ensure that they can effectively "demand" projects from SFD.
Targeting outcomes can also be improved by focusing on smaller geographic units than Governorates;
mechanisms should be established for targeting poor population groups within poor Governorates. SFDs
Regional Office network can play a major role here. Self targeting by focusing on activities that benefit
predominantly the poor should also be actively promoted.
IV.   Sustainability of Subproject Benefits
Sustainability of SFD-fmanced infrastructure has been an issue. The main reasons for uncertain
sustainability include: lack of finances to cover operations and maintenance costs; inadequate
community participation in the selection and implementation of projects; and inadequate attention to
technical standards to which the infrastructure is built.
Operations and Maintenance. The financing of operations and maintenance costs of SFD-
supported infrastructure on a continuing basis has been an issue especially under the PWP component
but also under the CDP component. Though local Governments have provided assurances of supporting
operations and maintenance and Governors have included this in their budget requests from the central
government, the resources have not been forthcoming due to fiscal constraints. Even before the austerity
budget was in place, the central Government did not provide adequate budget for preventive maintenance
of existing infrastructure. Cost recovery may have a special role to play in addressing this problem
especially because many governorates do not have adequate funds to carry out preventive maintenance, a
situation which is exacerbated by their limited powers for revenue gathering through tariffs or local
taxes.
-7-



Annex 1
With respect to operation of PWP works, the Menufia Socio-environmental Impact Assessment
of Public Works Projects (June 1997) found that the benefits of the water supply project were generally
limited because the pumps only operated for a limited number of hours per day --, a problem caused by
the lack of complementary inputs (e.g. diesel). The "Participatory Social Impact Assessment of
Community Development Projects in Assuit Governorate" (July 1997) found that the basic health care
component has had mixed results because, first, the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) had not
fulfilled its commitment to supply the doctors and nurses to projects dispensaries; and, second, NGOs
have been unable to supply the necessary medical and first aid material in many dispensaries. Coupled
with poor infrastructure and resultant lack of access to basic services, many projects dispensaries remain
underutilized.
SFD has agreed to explore the legal framework which will enable the establishment of O&M
units at the village level to assume responsibility for the operations and maintenance of public services
provided by SFD. Under existing law only voluntary contributions can be raised by an NGO but no taxes
or tariff can be collected as such charges can only be imposed by an Authority (under the Authority Law)
or the Ministry of Finance (under the Tax Law).
In response to the 0 & M problem SFD has developed several approaches: First, setting up users
associations which can collect voluntary contributions in cash or kind from beneficiaries. To encourage
these association, SFD will provide matching funds for maintenance activities on a downward sliding
scale. Second earmarking 10 percent of the grant amount for maintenance and placing it in a saving
account for the local agency responsible for maintenance. A variant on this approach is to award a
maintenance contract to a private contractor and use the savings account funds to finance the contract.
Another variant is to award a maintenance contract to the private contractor and permit the contractor to
charge user fees to cover a fixed proportion of the maintenance costs.
Community Participation and Demand-Orientation. A weaker area of SFD operations --
although one that is receiving great attention recently -- is adequate involvement of beneficiaries in
decisions relating to project identification, design, implementation, operations and maintenance, and
evaluation.
NGOs that are grassroots -- rather than intermediary -- organizations, can represent local needs
and set local priorities. SFD has not been able to achieve its objective of channeling approximately 40
percent of its funds through NGOs and as of December 1996, had reached only 12 percent. Much of the
difficulty can be traced to the limited absorptive capacity and institutional capabilities of local NGOs
especially in poor areas of Egypt. SFD should now expand its program to enhance the capabilities of
NGOs and community groups so that they can become an important delivery vehicle and partner for
services targeted at the poor.
4/ See "SFD Mission Beyond 1996", Government of Egypt and SFD, 1994.
- 8 -



Annex 1
The amount of actual counterpart funding provided by the community has averaged about a 10
percent contribution in actual cash or kind in projects where this contribution has been realized. There is
a need to monitor compliance with community/sponsoring agency contribution requirements and to
enforce these where they are faltering.
Technical Standards. There is some evidence that the technical standards to which Public
Works infrastructure was built under SFD may not always have been conducive to sustainability as a
result of accepting project proposals that were not subjected to a sufficient technical review. This led the
report "SFD Mission Beyond 1996, Government of Egypt and SFD (1994, page 29) to recommend that
"subprojects must be selected on the basis of a minimum viable size for sustainability rather than being
purely demand-driven which can only postpone the problem to a later stage". The Socio-environmental
Impact Assessment of Public Works Projects in Menofia Governorate (June 1997) also highlighted
issues with building standards (classroom design) for schools and recommended that the SFD be given
the authority to modify designs as needed and that this authority not lie solely with the Egyptian
Authority for Educational Buildings as at present.
Bottom Line
To conclude, while SFD has provided significant physical outputs and has done so in a fairly
efficient manner, there appears scope to improve SFD's targeting record and the sustainability of its
subproject benefits.
-9-



Annex 1
Table I
SFD Outputs On-the-Ground by Component as of End 1996
PUBLIC WORKS                                                                           ACTUAL
Environmental Infrastructure
Waste water networks in km                                                                     34
Waste water treatments plants'                                                                  4
Waste water pumps stations 2                                                                    4
Canal covering in km                                                                           60
Channel maintenance in km                                                                   3,432
Other projects 3                                                                              147
Potable Water
Network in km                                                                               2,770
Elevated and ground tanks                                                                     150
Artisan wells                                                                                 186
Other projects 4                                                                              118
Rural Roads
Road construction in km                                                                     1,004
Road improvements in km                                                                        80
Building Refurbishment
Clinics                                                                                      271
Youth centers                                                                                 284
Schools                                                                                      430
Social centers                                                                                39
Other projects 5                                                                              127
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Health Services
Number of health services equipped                                                             63
Number of awareness campaigns                                                                 583
Number of health personnel trained                                                            820
lBy number of subprojects
2 By number of subprojects
3Includes subprojects such as filling ponds, irrigations, and structural maintenance
4 Includes pump room, water stations, and tanks
5 Includes vetinerary units of public services building
-10-



Annex 1
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                              ACTUAL
Education and Training
Number of classrooms established                                                       1,570
Number of literacy classes established                                                37,161
Number of teachers trained to teach literacy classes                                  37,161
Number of beneficiaries receiving vocational training                                 35,303
Number of training workshops equipped                                                     33
Productive Families Loan Program
Number of families                                                                   402,191
Number of loans                                                                       36,911
Percentage of loans under LE 15,000                                                    100%
NGO Capacity Building
Number of NGOs upgraded6                                                                 137
Support to Youth and Community Centers
Number of community centers equipped                                                      20
Number of Environmental Projects                                                          65
Enterprise Development Program
Number of microenterprises                                                            53,269
Number of borrowers                                                                   59,150
Average cost per enterprise funded (US$)                                               6,230
Average cost perjob (US$)                                                              2,161
6 Every CDP subproject has a component for upgrading the capacity of NGOs which amounted to an average of 7% of the
contracted project amount.
- 11 -



Annex 1
Table 2
FIVE GOVERNORATE IMPACT STUDY: FINDINGS RELATING TO SFD'S
TARGETING EFFECTIVENESS'
SUMMARY
A five Governorate qualitative impact study conducted by SFD found that overall, SFD
beneficiaries were "poor". This finding was based on data relating to specific correlates of poverty as
below.
SFD beneficiaries were predominantly rural (73 percent).
Roughly 66 percent of CDP beneficiaries, 25 percent of EDP beneficiaries, and one percent of
PWP beneficiaries were poor.
About 56 percent of the total beneficiaries were illiterate and primary school drop-outs, versus 6
percent who had completed intermediate and secondary education, 24 percent who had
completed technical education, and five percent who were university graduates.
-     The mean years of schooling for EDP was ten years, for PWP it was five years, and for CDP it
was four years.
-     The average household size for the total sample of beneficiaries was six persons.
-     Of total household members, only 23 percent were engaged in income earning activities
implying that about 77 percent of the population of elderly and children below 15 years of age
were supported by only 23 percent of working members.
-     Of the total sample, about 40 percent of the beneficiaries lived in mud-brick dwellings (not red-
brick).
The study also yielded some results which, prima facie, appear to be conflicting and require
further investigation. For example:
-     Of the total sample, about 95 percent of beneficiaries had access to electricity in their houses.
-     About 72 percent of beneficiaries had access to indoor plumbing.
-     Only about three percent of the total sample of beneficiaries reported children to be working.
-     Almost all beneficiaries in the sample had access to television in one way or another. Over 80
percent of CDP and EDP beneficiaries and almost 70 percent of PWP beneficiaries owned
television sets.
1Source: 1995 Annual Report, SFD, Egypt, Section 2)
- 12-



Table 2: Resource Allocation byUnemployment Index
Enterprise Development Program as of March 31, 1995
Expected                      Expenditures
Project                         as % of
Governorate        Index %       Funding       Expenditures      Expected
Project
Funding
Cairo                   22.97     310,611.58         60,227.43      19.4
Giza                     5.35      72,291.80        41,671.34      57.6
Qalubiya                 4.54      61,459.09         18,544.94     30.2
Alexandria              10.46     141,488.55         24,664.86      17.4
Beheira                  4.40      59,469.40         24,289.64     40.8
Matruh                   0.11       1,547.53           530.57      34.3
Menufiya                 4.76      64,333.07         34,333.15     53.4
Gharbiya                 5.53     74,723.64          37,575.36     50.3
Kafr El Sheikh           3.27      44,215.17         20,701.66     46.8
Damietta                 1.18      15,917.46         12,979.41     81.5
Daqahliya                7.27      98,378.76         51,902.47     52.8
North Sinai              0.11       1,547.53          4,072.50    263.2
South Sinai              0.11       1,547.53          1,212.48     78.3
Port Said                1.80      24,318.34          4,962.51     20.4
Ismailia                 1.00      13,485.63          7,451.77     55.3
Suez                     1.39      18,791.45          7,315.20     38.9
Sharqiya                 6.13      82,903.45         44,938.31     54.2
BeniSuef                 1.90      25,644.80         13,648.36     53.2
Fayoum                   1.83     24,760.50          34,528.89    139.5
Minya                    3.68      49,742.07        29,717.24      59.7
Assuit                   3.29      44,436.25         22,841.89     51.4
Sohag                    3.55      47,973.46        27,085.73      56.5
Qena                     3.33     45,099.47          20,411.02     45.3
Aswan                    1.68     22,770.81         21,663.38      95.1
New Valley               0.23      3,095.06           3,059.06     98.8
Red Sea                  0.13       1,768.61          8,174.68    462.2
Total                  100.00 [             1       578,503.82     42.8
Source: 'Second Phase of Targeting for Social Fund", Final Report, Nader Ferghang, 1992, and SFD staff.



Table 1: Resource Allocation by Poverty Index
Community Development Program as of March 31, 1995
Expected                      Expenditures as
Project                      % of Expected
Governorate        Index %       Funding       Expenditures    Project Funding
Cairo                6.05          19,616.00         4,425.13       22.6
Giza                 6.92          22,437.03         4,098.32       18.3
Qalubiya             4.72          15,286.04         3,919.84       25.6
Alexandria           2.87           9,315.96         3,532.67       37.9
Beheira              8.14          26,373.35         5,772.00       21.9
Matruh               0.43           1,377.71         1,883.26      136.7
Menufiya             5.30          17,188.60         4,345.48       25.3
Gharbiya             5.71          18,500.71         2,632.34       14.2
Kafr El Sheikh       4.78          15,482.86         4,143.66       26.8
Damietta             0.97           3,149.06         1,026.59       32.6
Daqahliya            -6.76         21,912.18         6,299.48       28.7
North Sinai          0.22            721.66            160.00       22.2
South Sinai          0.20            656.05            80.00        12.2
Port Said            0.36           1,180.90         1,931.54      163.6
Ismailia             0.87           2,821.03         3,295.10      116.8
Suez                 0.38           1,246.50         5,720.47      458.9
Sharqiya             8.06          26,110.93         8,859.00       33.9
Beni Suef            4.88          15,810.84         4,066.97       25.7
Fayoum               5.38          17,451.02         2,086.65       12.0
Minya                9.13          29,558.01         9,875.51       33.4
Assuit               7.08          22,961.87         9,867.57       43.0
Sohag                1.88           6,101.30         6,894.63      113.0
Qena                 6.84          22,174.61         4,453.22       20.1
Aswan                1.78           5,773.27         9,151.96      158.5
New Valley           0.16             524.84         1,020.00      194.3
Red Sea              0.12            393.63           334.08        84.9
Total               100.00        324,156.00       109,875.45       33.9
Source: 'Second Phase of Targeting for Social Fund", Final Report, Nader Ferghang, 1992, and SFD staff.



APPENDIX A
-     The World Bank
WN      U 5 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    1818 H Street, N.W.  Tel.: (202) 473-2525
EI_ _ .J-|  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION               Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax: (202) 477-0036
Jacques Baudouy                                   U.S.A.
Director, Human Development Sector
Middle East & North Africa Region
November 10, 1997
Dr. Hussein El-Gammal
Managing Director
Social Fund for Development
Cairo, Egypt
(Transmission byfax # (20)-2-355-0628)
Dear Hussein,
I want to congratulate you and your team for a successful review of the first
phase of SFD and effective launch of phase II. I believe that the donors have been
satisfied by the outcome of these few days and that useful lessons can be drawn from
this exercise.
The fact that difficult issues, such as targeting of the poor and sustainability of
the Fund activities have been brought to the open and professionally discussed has
demonstrated that the Fund was a very mature institution which can evolve and
improve. This augurs well for phase II which, I believe, will be even more successful
than the first phase.
Our next step will be to finalize the ICR and send it to our Board before the end
of the year. Part of the documentation will be your own ICR prepared for the recent
review. It would be most useful if you could arrange to have it sent to me by Dr. El
Bishry on behalf of the Government of Egypt as the formal borrower. In the meanwhile,
please let me know if you wish any further assistance on our part.
I appreciate also your initiative and willingness to host the first regional Social
Fund network meeting in Egypt next spring. We will be in touch on that as the Bank is
prepared to offer support.
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD * FTCC 82987 * MCI 248423 * WUI 64145 * TRT 197688 * Cable Address: INDEVAS



-2-
With reference to Khalid Ikram's letter to you of November 3, 1997 on the
Poverty Update, I hope very much that with your assistance, the SFD and Qaiser's team
will be able to undertake the study.
Please convey my best personal regards to your collaborators who have done, as
usual, an excellent job.
Looking forward to seeing you soon.
Best regards,                                   2
Jacques Baudouy
Director
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND I PROJECT (Cr.2276-EGT)
AIDE-MEMOIRE - JULY 2,19971
1.    This Aide-Memoire records the findings and recommendations of a mission comprising
David Steel (MNSHD) that visited Egypt from June 24-July 2, 1997 to prepare the World
Bank's Implementation Completion Report for the Social Fund I Project and to plan for the
Multi Donor Evaluation Review in October, 1997.
2.     Mr. Steel met with Dr. Nadia El Tatawy, First Undersecretary, lnternational Finance
Sector, Ministry of Economy and International Cooperation, and with Dr. Hussein El Gammal,
Managing Director, Social Fund for Development and his senior managers and staff. He also
met with Mr. Torben Holtze, European Commission and attended a Social Fund Donors
Meeting. Mr. Steel wishes to thank the Government and the Social Fund for their assistance,
cooperation and hospitality.
3.    It was agreed that given the size of the Social Fund Project, the large amount of
information available and the number of donors financing the project, this review can be
carried out with an unusual degree of breadth and depth. Mr. Steel collected updated
information and data for the World Bank's Implementation Completion Report and reviewed
the draft Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Social Fund for the Government.
It was agreed that to the extent feasible both documents would use end May, 1997 data. This
will be collected for the World Bank by Ms. S. Meenakshy during her data collection mission
July 8-13 and any balance sent by the Social Fund later. Mr. Steel also reviewed the two
Impact Assessment studies now close to completion. It was agreed that it is important for all
these documents to take an open minded and critical review of perfomance and outcomes.
More detailed discussion points are included as Attachment 1.
4.    It was agreed that the Multi Donor Review Mission would take place from October 18-
23, 1997. A draft program was developed and discussed with the Social Fund Donors Group
at a meeting on July 1 (Attachment 2). A formal invitation to participate in the mission would
be sent by the World Bank to donors by August 15. The Government/Social Fund and the
World Bank would send donors their respective Implementation Completion Reports by
September 15 as background documentation for the mission. The three Impact Assessments
completed by the Social Fund by then will be made available to participants on arrival in
Egypt. -The Executive Summaries will be included in the Government's Implementation
Completion Report.
5.     Mr. Steel noted with concern the increasing number of donor staff being assigned to
supervise the Social Fund on a full time basis. These are expected to total up to 8 staff years,
including 3-4 European Commission, two Danish and two KfW staff by September. This
imposes a significant cost on the 148 staff Social Fund. This issue will be referred to the Task
Manager for further action.
Attachment
The mission's views expressed in this Aide-Memoire are subject to review and confirmation by
Bank management.



Annex I
Discussion Points on Implementation Completion Report Documentation
1) The two Implementation Completion Reports will be based on end May, 1997 data.
2) The version of the GovernmentlSocial Fund's Implementation Completion Report provided
to donors should be about 25-30 pages of main text and should contain an Executive Summary.
It will include a critical review of overall results in addition to summary reviews of each
program. The lessons learned section should include but not be limited to project design,
management, organization and internal procedures, project cycle, issues of coordination with
Sponsoring Agencies and central and Government agencies, and issues relating to targeting,
sustainability, participation, decentralization, and multi donor financing.
3) Executive Summaries of the Menofia Public Works Program Impact Assessment, the Assiut
Social Impact Assessment Study, and the Illiteracy Program Impact Assessment will be
included in the Government/Social Fund Implementation Completion Report. The full reports
will be available to donors on arrival in Cairo. In addition summaries of the 1995 Five
Govemorates Study, Progress Report for French Donor and the ILO Women's Employment
and Participation Study would also be available.



Multi-Donors Meeting
Egypt October 18-23
Draft Schedule
Saturday 18/10 (Day 1)
9:00-10:00     Welcome Speech
10:00-11:00     Presentation of Agenda
11:00-11:30     Coffee break
1 1:30- 1:00    SFD Presentation/ Questions
1:00- 2:30     Lunch break
2:30- 4:00     World Bank Presentation/Questions
???             Departure for Aswan
Sunday 19/10 (Day 2)
8:00-9:30      Briefing with the SFD Aswan office director
10:00-4:00      Field Visits
'??             Reception given by Aswan Governor
or
Sound &Light / Dinner
Monday 20/10 (Day 3)
9:00-3:00      Continuation of Field Visits
???             Departure for Cairo
Tuesday 2 1/10 (Day 4)
9: 00- 10:00   Organization of working sessions
10:00-11:00     Working session 1
Topic 1: Targeting and Impact Assessment
Topic 2: Participation, Role of NGOs and
Decentralization
11:00-11:30    Coffee Break
I 1:30- 1:00   Working session 1 (cont)
1:00- 2:30    Lunch Break
2:30- 4:00     Plenary session on Working sessions



Wednesday 22/10 (Day 5)
10:00-11:00         Working session 2
Topic 1: Sustainability
Topic 2: Financial Resources Mobilization & Donors
coordination
I 1:00-1 1:30  Coffee Break
1 1:30- 1:00   Working session 2 (cont)
1:00- 2:00    Lunch Break
2:00- 3:30    Plenary session
3:30- 5:00     Working meeting of session leaders and facilitators
to prepare for summary and conclusions session on
Thursday
Thursday 23/10 (Day 6)
9:00-10:30    Summary Evaluation Mission & Conclusions
10:30-1 1:00   Coffee Break
11:00- 1:30    SFD Presentation on Phase II / Questions
1:30- 3:00    Lunch Break
3:00- 5:00    Formal Launching (extended audience)



11/12 '97 16:15                       M.O.E.I.C.I.F.S.                            Pg. 01
APPENDIX B
b m w m y    OF   M M A110NAL    C " P M 77024   Fax   NO.   f     ~(202)391.5167
MINiSRY OF       RAL CO-OOPERATION                         Fp  No    }Sw   S6 
INTERNA1IONAL FNANCE SECTOR                                       (202) 90-159
CAIRO -EGYPT                               FACSDMILE COVERSHEEr AND )F-SSAGE
NOQOFPAGES( 5)
Date //  t     l199i7                                  (Wiagfitssbe:t)
Fax No.:
Mr. Jacques Baudouy,                                                     -
Director, Humaan Development Sector                                              __
Middle Eat and North Africa Ribpon
The World Bank                                                                 C-0
Washington D.C.20433                           V                                  6 ,
Re: Egypt: Emergency Social Fund Project
(Credit No. 2276)
World Bank Luwleentaition Comnietion Rgeport
Dear Mr. Raudouy,
Reference to your letter dated November 19,1997 and its endosures regrding the above
mentioned subject.
Plse find attched  herewith SFD comments on the draft World Bank impementatio.
completion report which we received today, and I would like to inform you that the Government
hss reviewed the said report and it has no comments on it except on the followg:
1-    The IDA Crdit Number for Technical Assistance Project would be corrected to be
(Cr- 2402) in paragraph 42 page 13.
2-    The term Govemment would be replaced by SFD in the last sentence of pargph 43
page tS.
With mny best regards.
Sincerely,
Dr. Nadia El Tatawy /
Read Sector for Coopeation With Inteinatiual
and Reional Finance Organizations



Government of Egypt
SOCIAL FUND for DEVELOPMENT                                    UnitdNablone Dvlopment Progrmme
_                                  -                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sutatlnebi. human development-
Dr. Jacqiues Baudouy
I )ircctor
HU muan Developlment Sector
Drkcther I l, 1997
D)ear Sir.
lThis is in refcrencc to your kind lettcr datcd Novembcr 19, 1997 pertaining to) tic final
version of tht World Bank's Complction Report. As you note, we havc already
expresscd  oLir comments in our review to the previous version. rhcse are also largely
inctluded in the Social Fund's Completion Report.  As you rightly  mention. lhis
version dilIlcrs from the previous one only through miinor changes whichre1lect the
hndin-s ol'the Multi-Donor Review held in Cairo, October 18-23, 1997. You will tind
lttacl'et(l a summary of our comments on tlhe Novembor 19 Draft.
I inm  sending a copy of this Letter to H.1E. Dr. Lafir El Bishri. State Minister for
lPlanzning anid Tntcrnationial Cooperation and to i)r. Nadia El lFatawi, Hlead ol'the
Di visiori for Cooperation with International and Itegional Funding Organizations and
Agencies.
With best regards.
Sin:cercly.
I lussc'L  M. F.l jamma l.
MVI.u1dging Director
Heed OffiCe:1. tHuaae, HegZY ti. Off KeW El Arit Street Cafr. Egy  Tel ; 354077 - 3SMV7. 3548339.3561 755  FuA 3550 S 3mlen0 
Moheadnim Offce.: 1 Wal El Nd SL, 1-oua Motnec tl  I:,. Sq. r Muhna, Tiol 0t    3 03003 . 2Ol4143-3a041350 - 308d 241 l ea. o300"z
DOW O onb.. Tne son.tbcairio. Suppon UdI: I Tahj,i St. in FoM of Me  aronltrh Agoncy. GTel 7  37 - 349w2847 $x 3492830
E-Mail: sfdmis S powfrmnaIi.ntoA.com



FROM  SFD            FAX NO                         3558628   11 DEC. 1997 S2t54 Pf P 2
_~~~~~~~ = _S~l. flN__              _       _ Y 
Commcls on the
Draft World Bank ImDlementation Comnuletion Report
1. Page I ( Introduction)
a SNocial Fund Project of USS 572 million equivalent supported by 13
donorx" shotild be changed into US$ 613.1 million supported by 17
donors.
2. Page 2 (A clhievenent of Objectives /.Social Fund For Development)
The Ilublic Works Program uses Lihe Lerm  labor based projects and not
labor  intensivc  as  it represcnts  a different concept in project
implcmentation. The terrn labor bascd is thus to be substituted to labor
intensive in the wtiole report.
3. Page 3 ( Box! I :How tile SFD has an Impact on the Poor):
" *lhuX it received a lot qf contaminated water which has passed
throug,h other plac.es '
Slhould be replaced by   Villagers disposed their sanitary scwcr directly
into (open irrigation chamiels.
*   a wasle water Irecament plant
Slhould be replaced by : a COTnprehensive waste water collcction and
treatment plant.
* * Labor accountecld fir over 50% of jhe cosl
Laix)r actually accounted for over 30% and not 50% Of the cost.
4. Page  5 (Achievemenit of objectives /  Community Development
Program):
* Spelling mistake: SFT) and not SDF
*   Cf()J /ha.s sometinsx prsovided training.fir.ieRldv which are santrated
or have no marketr. 7he problenm  will be addremvsed ky closely
mionhforing  local markets conditions he/bre approvinig support 1br
enterprise.
We should add that CDP has already responded to those challcnges before
the end ofpliase I by conferring greater attention to marketability through



FROM   SFD             FAX NO                           3s5e628   11 DEC.1997 02:59 PM P 3
ensuring a reasonable allocation of rcsources to market surveys and also to
othier important factoirs such as traininig and feasibility studies together
with more facilities to the benieficiaries namcly financing the project site,
lower interest rate, longcr tax excmption anid the crcation of an insurance
association for credit risks.
S. Page 5 ( Achrievement of objectives / Enterprise Development
Program)
1 tshould he noted zliat 55% of/h,L)P loans are/1br less than tSS 7,500
Slhotuldi be corrected to 55% of EDP loanis are for less than IJSS 2,500.
6. Page  7 ( Achievement of objectives /  Institutional Development
Program ):
'verhead ( Cxos are 6  o(>disburxsmeni
It shotuld be noticed that it is mentioned in page 14 that ovcrhead cost is
3"%  for all prijects financed and thlis is the accepted figure to the SFD. As
for thc 6ao mcntioned in page 7 and 14, it is not clear to us whial is thc
exact sources of thosc two figures.
Iile: figure 6o in page 7 should thus be replaced by 3% and the same
fIgure in page 14 should be either clarified witlh the SFD or cancclcd as it
does not seem to be a crucial indicator.
7. Page 13 (Assessment of Outcome-s / Quandtatve A chievements):
It (Sb; 1)2  tirwrc ilvv reaiied neurly 2 million beneficiaries and indirectly
ret.ichedl cJnhler approximately /6 million beneficiaries
rliosc filgues scCrn to include all the PWP beneficiaries under the category
of iiidircct bencliciaries since CDI', EIDP and ERP direct beneficiaries
alone account for 1.5 million bclieficiary, but recent studies conducted by
the SFD  ( for- examriple iltc Socio enviroiunental Impact Assessment study
iln Menofia Govermoratc ) proved that in most cases thc population
benicfitinig from PWP projects are direct beneticiarnes in the sense that they
all  actually  utse the roais, sewage systems and  water networks
implemrtented. (refer to the SFD)- ICR for figiures on PWP beneficiaries)



FROM I SFD           FAX NO 1                        35S0628   11 DEC-1997 02157 PM P
8. Page 14 (Assessment of Outcomes / Quantitative Achievements):
F.DP employment created accountcd for 60%  and not 45% of all
employment created.
.9. Page 14 (Assessment of Outcomes / TargetL'ag)J
Yhe poveriv indlex was used primarnly by the (:.onmunity Development
lXrograin while the unemplovymeni index was used primarily in ihe Public
Works aind t,iterpri.se l)evelopment .Pro grain
The poverty index was tised primarily by the C(ommunity Development
Program while tle utncmploymeni, index was used primarily in the
E:ntcrprise Development Program. The Public Works Program is using
both indices.



I



Government of Egypt
SOCIAL FUND for DEVELOPMENT



I



Government of Egypt
Social Fund for Development
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phase I
September 1997
Research and Reports Section
Projects and Planning Department



CurrencV Equivalents
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
USS 1.00    = LE 3.33 (April 1991)
US$ 1.00    = LE 3.39 (September 1997)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BOD         Board of Directors
BSU         Beneficiary Support Unit
CAPMAS    Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
CDA         Community Development Association
CDP         Community Development Program
CIDA        Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CS          Community Survey
EA          Executing Agency
EC          Executive Committee
EDP         Enterprise Development Program
ERP         Employment and Retraining Program
ERSAP       Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
GOE         Governent of Egypt
IA          Intermediary Agency
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDP         Institutional Development Program
ILO         Intemational Labor Office
EPF         Indicative Planning Funds
IS          Integrated Survey
MIS         Management Information System
NGO         Nongovernmental Organization
O&M         Operations and Maintenance
PE          Public Enterprise
PEO         Public Enterprise Office
P1U         Project Implementation Units
PS          Priority Survey
PWP         Public Works Program
PVO         Private Voluntary Organization
SA          Sponsoring Agency
SEISA       Social and Economic Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
SFD         Social Fund for Development
SME         Small and Micro Enterprise
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
2



I AILJ) Ut CUIN 1 LIN I 
PREFACE 4
PART I: CONTEXT AND DESCRIPTION OF SFD PROJECT
A  Introduction   5
B. Project Description and Objectives   5
C. Project Design   5
D. Resources   7
PART I: CONCEPTUAL ISSUES
A. The SFD and Economic Reform   9
B. Components of the SFD    10
PART III: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. The Public Works Program    12
B. The Community Development Program    20
C. The Enterprise Development Prograrn   28
D. The Employment and Retraining Program   35
E. The Institutional Development Program   39
PARTIV. PASTEXPERJENCE, LESSONS LEARNT
AND FUTURE ACTION (SFD I)
A. Organiizational Structuire  41
B. Project Cycle, Evaluation and Impact Assessment   42
C. Participation   44
D. Sustainability   48
PART V: STATISTICAL ANNEX* 51
Boxes
III-l  Objectives of the PWP   12
I.1-2  Duties and Responsibilities of PWP Staff  14
11I-3  Evaluation Indicators   16
I11-4  Assessing the Impact of a PWP Project   17
III-5  Assessing the Impact of Community Schools  21
III-6  CDP Selection Criteria   23
III-7  EDP Approach and Strategy   28
III-8  Scope of EDP Activities   29
III-9  Targeting Effectiveness and Social Impact  30
III-10 Monitoring and Evaluation of EDP Projects  32
111-11 Skills in Demand   35
III-12 Training Projects in Partnership With the Private Sector  37
IV-1  NGO Capacity Building by the CDP   46
Figures
111-1  Model for Implementing EDP Projects  31
IV-1  Model for Improving the Project Cycle  42
* List of tables andfigures included in Statistical Annex on page S1.
3



PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Fund for
Development - Phase I Project in Egypt, for which World Bank Credit No. 2276-EGT
in the amount of SDR 105 million equivalent was approved on June 21, 1991 and
made effective on April 6, 1992. By the end of the phase, US$ 746.4 million had been
committed by 18 donors, the largest contributions coming from the European Union,
the World Bank and the Arab Funds.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Aliaa El Sherif of the Research and Reports
Section, Projects and Planning Department, under the general guidance of Dr. Hussein
El Gammal, Managing Director, Social Fund for Development. It was reviewed by Dr.
Mohamed Bakry (Manager, Projects and Planning Department), Dr. Assem Sowellem
(Director General, Finance and Administration Department), Dr. Aziz El Bindary
(Director General, Community Development Program), Dr. Mokhles Abou Seida
(Director General, Public Works Program), Dr. Mamdouh Awny (Director General,
Enterprise Development Program), Mr. Omar El Farouk (Director General,
Employment and Retraining Program), and Dr. Ahmed Mokhtar (Manager,
International Cooperation, Information and Public Relations Department). It was
edited by Ms. Rasha Hammad.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in December 1996, original closing date for
the Social Fund for Development Project. Mr. David Steel of the Human Resources
Group, Middle East and North Africa Region, and Ms. Santhadevi Meenakshy
(ASTEN) provided valuable comnments during the World Bank's final
supervision/completion mission conducted in Cairo from July 24 to August 8, 1997.
The ICR is based on input from the SFD programs and departments, as well as the
SFD computer network's accumulated data on resources, activities and project
performance. Subsidiary sources consisted of individual project records, program
reports, and feedback from the regional offices and executing agencies.
4



PARTI: CON7EX'AIPN) D 't.VSCIU1N  Th'.1)N'F  PKULJtL'
A. INTRODUCTION
In 1986, faced with the growing resource gap and a declining economic
performance, the Government of Egypt undertook a series of corrective policy
measures. In 1990, it began to implement its Economic Reform and Structural
Adjustment Program (ERSAP), which centered on three areas: (i) stabilization
measures to reduce inflation and restore the macroeconomic balance; (ii) structural
adjustment to stimulate medium and long term growth, and; (iii) measures to minimize
the adverse effects of structural adjustment on the poor in the course of economic
reform. The first two areas were attended to by an IMF Stand-By Agreement and a
World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan, respectively. The Social Fund for
Development (SFD) was created to address the third area, also with support from the
World Bank.
The creation of the SFD was a response to the growing awareness that the
sustainability of the reform efforts could be endangered by insufficient attention to the
social aspects of economic recovery. It was also a response to alarming poverty
incidence, unemployment and deprivation among low income groups, a context which
required the establishment of a proactive social program to alleviate the hardships of
these groups.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
The SFD was established in 1991 as a temporary, rapid disbursing institution
with an initial US$ 613.10 million from 17 donors and a five-year mandate. It was a
program of actions aimed at protecting and improving the status of vulnerable groups
during the period of economic transition. The vulnerable groups addressed by the SFD
comprised new graduates, unemployed youth, displaced public enterprise workers, and
female-headed households.
The SFD was tc address the specific needs of vulnerable groups by increasing
their access to basic services, improving their productivity and enhancing their
opportunity for obtaining gainful employment. This was to be achieved through five
core programs: Public Works, Community Development, Enterprise Development,
Employment and Retraining, and Institutional Development. SFD projects were to be
implemented by sponsoring agencies (SAs) such as ministries, governorates, financial
institutions, public and private sector companies, NGOs, and local community
organizations.
C. PROJECT DESIGN
L. SFD Manawement
The SFD was established in January 1991 by Presidential Decree. Though
designed to be an autonomous agency, the SFD operates under the direct supervision
5



ot the Pnme Mnmster and is accountatne to tne uovernment ot tgypt. ine ciose
relation between the SFD and the Government took the form of government
representation in the Board of Directors (BOD), established in 1991 and chaired by the
Prime Minister. The BOD defines overall SFD policies and strategies. It ratifies SFD
bylaws and procedures for project endorsement, accepts financial contributions, and
authorizes the disbursement of funds.
To allow for decision-making efficiency and flexibility, the SFD Executive
Committee (EC) was established in 1992 by Prime Ministerial Decree. Composed
principally of private sector representatives, the EC sets the general framework for the
implementation of projects approved by the BOD, and approves projects with budgets
between US$ 500,000 and US$ 3 million.
2. SFD Core Proerams
The SFD has five core programs: (i) The Public Works Program (PWP)
supports labor-based public works projects, carried out by local contractors, using
local material and local labor. The primary focus of the PWP is to provide basic
services and employment to the youth; (ii) the Community Development Program
(CDP) is designed to improve the quality of services at the community level in low
income areas, in partnership with NGOs and the beneficiary community. CDP projects
include social development activities (health and education) and productive activities
(income generation and capacity building); (iii) the Enterprise Development Program
(EDP) was conceived to create sustainable job opportunities in the small and micro
enterprise sector by providing packages of technical assistance, business counseling,
training and credit to both new and expanding businesses; (iv) the Employment and
Retraining Program (ERP) responds to the needs of public enterprise employees during
and immediately following the restructuring and privatization of the firms that employ
them. The ERP funds labor adjustment schemes that mitigate any labor displacement
that may occur in the process. It also trains unemployed new graduates in skills that are
relevant to market demands, and finally; (v) the Institutional Development Program
(IDP) was designed to strengthen the management and technical capabilities of the
SFD and the intermediary agencies in order to optimize the implementation of their
activities.
3. SFD Regional Office Network
The SFD's rapidly increasing operations led to the establishment of a network
of 11 regional and 6 satellite offices. The first two regional offices were established in
1992, followed by an additional 8 in 1993 alone. These offices are located throughout
the govemorates of Egypt. The creation of the SFD's regional office network was an
important step in decentralizing the SFD's operations. The decentralization process has
allowed for the promotion of SFD activities in areas with limited accessibility to the
Cairo headquarters; enhanced the targeting effectiveness of the SFD as well as its
capacity to monitor and evaluate projects; and provided resources for local training and
capacity building for regional NGOs.
6



4. SF'D Administration
The SFD administration is composed of a number of departments intended to
enhance its performance: (i) The Finance, Administration and Personnel Department
provides a regular account of the funds disbursed to projects by the different programs,
produces reports that keep track of the financial status of the donors and SAs, and
supervises administrative matters and personnel affairs; (ii) the Management
Information System/Information Technology Department was developed to ensure the
availability of timely information on the implementation and progress of projects, and
the effectiveness of SFD programs in meeting their objectives; (iii) the Projects and
Planning Department monitors SFD activities and ensures the financial and technical
progress of projects, coordinates between the various departments and programs,
manages relations between the SFD and donors, and is responsible for the external
release of any documentation from the SFD; (iv) the Credit Department develops
financial packages according to the donors' credit parameters and works closely with
financial intermediaries and SAs to structure the projects, monitor their adherence to
framework agreements, and avoid duplication of loans to the same beneficiary. It also
promotes credit lending and develops a system to address defaulted loans; (v) the
Internal Audit Department functions as an independent advisor to the SFD's
management in all financial and administrative matters, in order to safeguard its assets
and ensure the reliability of information; (vi) the International Cooperation,
Information and Public Relations Department's main task is to increase awareness of
the SFD's role, enhance its image, and develop contacts and relationships with
international organizations to promote cooperation for joint projects. This is carried
out by means of visits, contacts, publications, press releases, advertising, conferences,
seminars and exhibitions, and; (vii) the Gender Unit is an independent unit that
transcends the SFD's five programs and attempts to include gender issues into the
SFD's overall activities at policy, program and project levels.
D. RESOURCES
1. Human Resources
The SFD technical secretariat for Phase I was entirely financed by UNDP, and
provided for 145 positions within the core programs, regional offices and various
departments. Consultants were also hired for advisory work in their various areas of
competence and expertise. At the start of the SFD Project, staff were recruited through
newspaper advertisements and a recruiting consulting firm, which screened applications
and short-listed candidates for interviews. It was therefore possible to recruit the staff
with the educational background, experience and competence, that corresponded to
the work requirements of the various programs and departments. As the Project
matured and awareness of its role and impact increased, it directly attracted high-
caliber applicants from the labor market. Though SFD staff are recruited through short
yearly renewable contracts, they enjoy a competitive salary structure and benefits
packages, and are provided with training opportunities for skills upgrading. By mid
1995, the SFD had reached 142 staff members.
The SFD has been especially active in training and upgrading the capabilities of
its technical secretariat, and transferring its knowledge and expertise to the various
7



ministries, governmental agencies and NUOs it has collaborated wath. 'i'hough it has
particularly focused on training the staff of its regional offices, it has also encouraged
all its staff to attend seminars and conferences both locally and abroad, in accordance
with their respective areas of work.
2 Financial Resources
SFD resources are governed by the laws and regulations of the Government of
Egypt according to framework agreements concluded with donors. These agreements
define mechanisms for project appraisal and financing. Although signed in December
1990, the flow of funds and actual SFD operations began in March 1993.
Contributions to SFD resources are in the form of loans and grants. Loans are
directed towards revenue-generating activities which repay the loan back. Grants
finance infrastructure and social development projects in rural communities and urban
poverty zones.
The initial budget of the SFD was US$ 613.10 million from 17 donors. In
1996, by the end of Phase I, a total of US$ 746.40 million had been committed by 18
donors. The largest contributions came from the European Union, the World
Bank/IDA and the Arab Funds, which accounted for 30.8%, 20.1% and 19.1% of
total commitments, respectively. The EDP was allocated 52% of donor funds, followed
by the PWP with 23%, the CDP with 12%, and the ERP and IDP with 7% and 5%,
respectively. The largest allocation to channels went to NCGOs and banks with 56% of
donor funds. These were followed by governorates, ministries, and employment and
retraining, with 27%, 10% and 7%, respectively.
UNDP initially became involved with the SFD in 1990 by funding a Preparatory
Phase Project, which was designed to initiate the creation of the SFD and facilitate the
appraisal of its operations by the World Bank and other donors. UNDP continued to
assist the SFD through a Bridging Phase Project in 1991, which was essentially
concerned with institutional capacity-building activities intended to establish the SFD's
capability to attract, allocate and manage resources in a manner that would benefit the
target groups rapidly and effectively. Through a Main Phase Project in 1993, UNDP
contributed an estimated US$ 3.5 million. This arnount from IPF, and an equivalent
US$ 13.5 million in cost-sharing, were pooled to provide technical assistance activities.
8



PARI'll: LOVNtCL TUAL ISSUL.
A. THE SFD AND ECONOMIC REFORM
The design of the SFD possessed a number of conceptual issues that were not
clearly addressed during the initial phases of Project preparation: (i) Conformity with
sectoral and macroeconomic policies; (ii) the trade-off between short-term impact, and
long term capacity building and subproject sustainability, and; (iii) the link with private
sector development and privatization.
1. Socio-Economic Argument
The SFD was perceived as a response to the need to mitigate the social costs of
prolonged economic dysfunction. Egypt experienced a lengthy economic decline before
adjustment measures were actually put in place. This resulted in a slow degradation of
major social services and the marginalization of many groups, especially in rural areas.
The SFD was considered an instrument designed to avoid the further erosion of living
conditions while adjustment measures were being instituted.
The need to protect the poor that were directly affected by adjustment was
another justification for the creation of the SFD. During the transitional period, until
macroeconomic reforms were to lead to the re-establishment of economic growth, the
SFD was seen as an instrument that could provide the essential bridge between crisis
and recovery. This concept was based on the assumption that the adjustment program
would have strong repercussions on the economy; recession would shortly be followed
by growth and prosperity. The SFD stressed rapid implementation and the urgency to
address the vulnerable groups hurt by adjustment. Sustainability was not a major issue
because in the longer term, the economic reform program was expected to restore
growth and create new opportunities.
Another objective of the SFD was to provide support to the poor so that they
could benefit from the reform program in the longer term, to foster economic growth.
Evidence showed that this was insufficient to reduce poverty. The poor generally had
little access to social and economic services or productive assets, and were marginal to
the economic mainstream. Specific targeted programs were needed to increase market
and economic opportunities, and social services. Centralized decision-making
prevented the ministries from responding flexibly and rapidly to the needs of the poor
at the rural community level. The SFD, with its network of regional offices, its flat
organizational structure, and its ability to work closely with NGOs, local authorities
and the communities themselves, was an efficient complementary approach to reaching
those in need.
2. Political Argument
To make the adjustment process more acceptable, the Government of Egypt
undertook the decision to establish a rapid responding organization that would work
closely with vulnerable groups, assess their needs efficiently, and deliver much needed
services to the communities. This was the Government's underlying justification for the
creation of the SFD.
9



3. InstitutionalArrument
The design of the SFD responded to a number of institutional issues. The
multisectoral nature of the actions of the SFD necessitated special mechanisms to
ensure the support of the central ministries; and also to work directly with the
communities, and in close association with the private sector. This new approach was
not without challenges. In many cases, the central ministries were unwilling to concede
control of the activities that were to be undertaken by the SFD.
B. COMPONENTS OF THE SFD
1. From Short to Longer Term Obiectives
At the start of the SFD, the questions of speed and the capacity to reach the
target groups were the primary focus. The SFD's programs concentrated on the
immediate transfer of revenue to the groups in need, through actions such as labor
intensive public works, the provision of primary health care, and simple income and
employment generating activities. The issue of sustainability arose when the projects
required the increased participation of the poor, and the establishment of longer termn
objectives. As the SFD matured, these objectives were refined and began including
such areas as operations and maintenance, and cost recovery.
One of the principai issues faced by the SFD during the course of Phase I was
the ability to reconcile short term activities with the longer term issues of sustainability
and capacity building. While the SFD needed to generate concrete results rapidly by
channeling resources to its target beneficiaries, it also needed to work on capacity
building to better reach these groups and to ensure the sustainability of its social
actions. The weak institutional capacities of both the public and private sectors,
rendered the funding of targeted actions difficult, and considerably reduced
implementation options. The SFD sought to demonstrate how a public agency could
function successfully by applying the rules of the private sector.
2. Linking the SFD With Economic Reform
Since its inception in 1991, the SFD has played a central role in advancing the
successful implementation of ERSAP in Egypt. It has facilitated coordination between
the implementation of economic reforms and social actions. However, it is merely one
component of the Government's much broader poverty alleviation and social welfare
policies, and should thus be appreciated in terms of its potential to contribute to, rather
than substitute for, the process of defining these policies.
3. The SFD and the Creation of Social Stability
By the end of Phase I, the SFD had largely expanded its role. It contributed to
the advancement of Egypt's privatization program, the enrichment of its human
resources, and the proper functioning of the labor market. It also made significant
contributions to increasing the access of small and micro enterprises to credit, technical
assistance, and training. It provided employment opportunities throughout the country,
10



especially in areas where the communities were most vulnerable to the adverse effects
of adjustment. By promoting social stability and encouraging entrepreneurship, the
SFD strengthened the confidence of investors in the sustainability of market
deregulation and the continued openness of the economy in the long run. It has also
positioned itself to become an active facilitator of the involvement of the private sector
in the Egyptian economy.
4. Reachin' Those in Need
The SFD supports two types of activities: (i) employment creation and
provision of income generating activities, and; (ii) support for basic social services. The
SFD operates in a variety of sectors, such as health, education, infrastructure and
industry. Multisectoral approaches such as those of the SFD, are able to address
simultaneously the needs of a broad cross-section of the population that may not be
reachable through a single sector.
To address specifically those in need, the SFD has adopted four targeting
approaches: (i) Under geographic targeting, benefits are channeled to persons falling
within a certain category, such as size of assets, employment status or type, and
geographic location. Since the poor tend to be located in areas that suffer from a
greater deficiency of basic services, targeting by geographic location is a practical and
cost-effective mechanism for reaching the poor. A poverty map is constructed for the
different regions based on a set of indicators, such as income, household
characteristics, employment and unemployment, access to social services, and housing
conditions. Information on these indicators is gathered for the various regions or
governorates using existing surveys or studies. In cases where the information is
lacking, additional surveys may be required to supplement existing data. The indicators
are then combined to produce a single index according to which regions or
governorates are ranked, and a list of priority areas are identified; (ii) under the self-
targeting mechanism, project designs include self-screening methods so as to preclude
the benefits of the higher income non-eligible population from the project. These could
include requirements like beneficiary participation in self-help communal construction
projects and labor-based infrastructure programs like unskilled labor, thus
incorporating means that would reduce the appeal of the projects to higher income
groups, such as delays or inconvenieLices in receiving the services; (iii) targeting
through components and subprojects signifies that certain components may have a
more direct impact on selected target groups than others. Involving the beneficiaries in
the projects ensures that one or more components specifically addresses their needs;
(iv) the choice of implementing agencies is especially important, particularly in relation
to poverty alleviation. Resorting to organizations that operate with, and have extensive
knowledge of local conditions can be extremely effective in enhancing the benefits of a
project.
11



PART I11: IMPLEMENTA TIONASSESSMENT
A. THE PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
1. Prorram Rationale and Obiectives
The continuous increase in population, the rapid growth of provinciaVrural and
urban settlements and the limited resources to finance basic services projects account
for the shortage in public services provided by government institutions in Egypt. The
Public Works Program (PWP) aimed at generating employment opportunities for the
increasing numbers of Egyptian youth by investing in labor-based public works
projects. This created, on the one hand, temporary jobs for skilled and unskilled labor
during implementation; and on the other, long term employment through operation
and maintenance (O&M) activities. The byproduct of such projects was the
improvement of basic services in rural areas and low income urban sectors where
deprived families were concentrated. Extending potable water and wastewater
networks, improving irrigation and drainage channels, constructing rural roads,
refurbishing public buildings, cleaning up the environment, landscaping, collecting
solid waste and providing hygienic sanitation were the types of labor-based projects
financed by the PWP.
Box 11PI-: Oblectives of the PWP
Long Term Objectives: Permanent Job Creation and Sustainability
1. Creating the 'new' entrepreneur who has enough practical experience to execute public works
projects in villages and urban poor districts, and carry out the necessary O&M activities after
project completion.
2. Establishing a well-entrenched and efficient system for project management to implement,
monitor and sustain successful public works projects utilizing labor-based methods.
3. Ensuring sustainability by enhancing the beneficiaries' roles, responsibilities and awareness
through their local participation in project cost and their direct involvement as intermediary and
executing agencies.
Short and Medium Term Objectives: Temporary Job Creation and Basic Social Services
1. Temporarily and permanently absorbing the labor force during the period of project
implementation (two to three years), and through O&M activities.
2. Implementing economic, productive and social infrastructure in rural and urban areas to enhance
the welfare of targeted groups, and to provide deprived areas with basic services.
2. Program Structure and Activities
The PWP consists of two departments employing a group of professional
engineers (officers). Each department is headed by a Manager, while the overall
Program is managed by a Director General. The two departments are: (i) the
Infrastructure Department, which deals with irrigation and drainage, potable water and
wastewater, and rural roads projects, and; (ii) the Municipal Services Department,
which deals with public buildings refurbishment, the environment and landscaping, and
solid waste and sanitation projects.
Due to the relentless attempts of the PWP to continuously promote the idea of
labor-based implementation methods for infrastructure projects in Egypt as a major
means to combat unemployment, local government authorities and community leaders
12



in rural Egypt have gradually realized the importance ot these ettorts, ana are
presently considering its utilization in other projects not financed by the SFD.
2.1 Tarreting
In order to identify target groups and lay down annual plans that actually
channeled project funds to their designated beneficiaries, the PWP examined the
results of three targeting studies commissioned by the SFD subsequent to its
inception. The examination considered two primary indices, namely poverty and
unemployment rates. Poverty took into account: access to basic services, like piped
water; percentage of household income spent on food; female illiteracy; infant
mortality, a-nd; ratio of young widowed women. Unemployment took into account:
the male unemployment rate; the female unemployment rate; the number of annual
new graduates; migrant labor, and; birth rates.
A Governorate Priority Ranking was compiled based on the results obtained
from the targeting studies, and was reflected in an overall program strategy that was
implemented through annual plans. At the macro level, the PWP selected govemorates
for the execution of its projects based on this ranking. Govemorates with the worst
conditions and highest indices secured most of the funding. Upper Egypt govemorates
received over 60% of PWP contracted funds by end of Phase I, while Lower Egypt
received only 40%, representing a preference of over 50% in the funds allocated.
At the micro level, the PWP put into operation the rankine of particular
marakez and/or districts within each govemorate, and the ranking of rural areas within
each markaz, to channel its committed funds. This was demonstrated in projects
implemented in Qena and Sohag, for example, where the marakez were comparatively
extremely poor and housed most of the unemployed local labor force. Funds were
therefore allocated undiscriminatorily to most marakez, versus projects in Ismailia and
Cairo, for example, where funds were directed favorably to two dilapidated
neighborhoods in the poorest marakezldistricts.
3. Proiect Cycle
The PvVP implements its projects through a decentralized hierarchy. PWP
framework agreements are signed by SAs such as governorates, ministries, NGOs,
PVOs or similar organizations. Local directorates and councils are considered
intermediary agencies (IAs). Local contractors and work groups are the executing
agencies (EAs) through which the project is physically implemented. This process -
referred to as the project cycle - is managed by PWP officers, who are responsible for
a variety of supervisory and managerial activities. Other monitoring duties are carried
out by the SFD regional offices and the project's respective IA, subsequent to the
signing of the project's framework agreement under the guidance and supervision of
PWP staff. The SFD commissions a private consulting office to perform the technical
feasibility, social impact, economic rate of return and environmental impact assessment
studies. The consulting office is hired based on a typical bidding process and performs
its task according to regularly updated terms of reference prepared by the PWP. This
occurs during the project's mobilization period (first three months).
13



Box 111-2: Duties and Resoonsibilities of PWP Staff
1. Prepare PWP annual plan and budget.
2. Evaluate project proposals submitted to the Program by beneficiaries through SAs, to determine
conformity with PWP criteria and eligibility for funding.
3. Study and evaluate proposals submitted by target groups through the SFD regional offices.
4. Provide technical assistance along with the necessary directives, to the SAs during the
preparation of the project document and the selection of executing agencies.
5. Coordinate with other SFD programs regarding pertinent project components.
6. Follow up on project proposals with the relevant SA until they are finalized into an acceptable
format.
7. Prepare all documents and appraisal reports for the EC's and donors' (if applicable) approval and
follow up, until the signing of the contract.
8. Prepare terms of reference (TOR) for private consulting offices to carry out feasibility studies; and
economic, environmental, social analyses and evaluation of the project components.
9. Evaluate prequalifications and bids presented by consulting offices, and select the most
appropriate ones.
10. Review and evaluate studies presented by the consulting office and coordinate with the SA to
reach a final project document.
11. Recommend training and extend technical assistance, coupled with periodic corrective measures
for the local Project Manager.
12. Conduct random and scheduled field visits to project sites.
13. Ensure that the project management is carrying out proper monitoring and supervision efforts
according to the terms of the contract.
14. Study reports issued by the SFD regional offices concerning projects under execution.
15. Evaluate monthly progress reports, update project status and recommend disbursements
according to actual implementation levels.
16. Conduct the necessary project evaluation on a periodic basis.
17. Participate in the project's final evaluation committee according to the PWPs rules and
regulations.
18. Upgrade local capabilities and build up public awareness towards the importance of project
sustainabitity subsequent to its implementation.
The PWP requires the SA to nominate a project manager that has to be a
qualified individual with considerable relevant experience. The project manager is then
interviewed by the PWP Director General and staff. If acceptable, the SA appoints the
project manager. His salary is paid from the project's institutional support funds
supplied by the SFD. After his appointment, the project manager selects his own staff
that work on the project according to a clear work plan and an organizational chart
submitted to the PWP. The project manager is a full-time project staff member with
specific duties, while the project staff may be hired on a full- or part-time basis.
The PWP offers technical and administrative training to SA, IA and EA staff to
improve the delivery of their services. The project managers and their staff
professionals, work closely with local beneficiaries to help build up the capabilities of
their counterparts. A segment of the PWP's project funding is directed at the
institutional support of SAs and IAs to establish well-equipped project headquarters.
After project completion, the headquarters with the experienced staff along with the
trained local officials, are part of the governmental hierarchy, more able and better
equipped to work on similar projects.
3.1 Project Review
To adhere to the policy of providing basic infrastructure and municipal services
to the poorest of the poor, the PWP adopted work plans that ensured that the targeted
beneficiaries were actually reached. Periodic assessment and monitoring conducted
14



during project implementation, coupled witn a nnai project evaluation to measure tne
impact of its projects, were an integral part of the PWP's work plans.
The first tier of project control takes place during project formulation when the
PWP works closely with the regional offices, local popular councils and the
beneficiaries to assess needs and ensure grassroots participation. After the project
documents are prepared, a specialized private consulting office is hired by the PWP to
perform technical, social, economic and environmental studies to examine the
feasibility of the project and predict its impact on its immediate community. Up to
eight consulting offices are used by the PWP after their prequalifications are approved
by an evaluation committee. One consulting office may be responsible for two to three
projects in one govemorate, and presents a comprehensive report that includes a close
examination of each subproject and a set of parameters that would later constitute the
impact assessment indicators evaluated during the project's final evaluation after
project completion. The project is then reformulated according to the report to only
include feasible subprojects. This self-adjusting system ensures that the project
contents are acceptable, and sets the parameters that later measure the project's
success.
A comprehensive project monitoring system was devised and is currently
operating on all PWP projects, where the number of individuals working on each
subproject is counted daily and reported for verification against project labor-based
objectives. Daily logs are kept at every project site to keep track of, and monitor the
proiect's labor content. Periodic inspection is also performed to ensure the quality of
work, and to realign the project's path whenever necessary. In addition to the labor
content and work accomplished, the monitoring system balances cash flows advanced
to the project, versus actual expenditure and bank accounts. This information is
collected and delivered to the PWP by means of monthly and quarterly reports. Project
evaluation takes place six months after the project starts. An independent consultant is
commissioned to evaluate the impact of the project by examining the actual benefits
compared to the preset project objectives, and is requested to provide a
comprehensive report outlining the topics related to the project.
3.2 Project Final Evaluation
The final project evaluation starts when the project ends. According to the
framework agreement signed with the SFD and upon a request from the project
manager, the head of the SA forms the final project evaluation committee. The
committee typically consists of the following members: (i) Comrnittee Coordinator,
usually a high official in the SA who is familiar with the project; (ii) Independent
Consultant, typically a prorminent and distinguished member of the professional
community - usually a dean or university professor; (iii) Independent Technical Expert,
usually experienced with similar projects and aware of SFD requirements and
conditions of the SA; (iv) Auditor, a capable accountant with a background in
reviewing and auditing similar projects financed by international organizations; (v)
SFD representatives, generally from the PWP, the Projects and Planning Department,
and the Internal Audit Department, respectively, and, (vi) Project Manager, who
typically joins the committee to provide information, coordinate and facilitate the
works of the committee members.
15



in a report, tne evaluation corammittee cunpliue  picsrn pi ujcu guib tU audW
ones realized after implementation. It evaluates the project according to such elements
as the project labor content, the quality of services provided to the beneficiaries, the
actual number of beneficiaries directly and indirectly affected by the project, and the
social impact of the project. It is essential to examine whether the service actually
reached the targeted beneficiaries at all, partially or fully; whether secondary,
unaccounted for, beneficiaries were affected by the project; whether any individuals
were harmed by the implementation of a certain subproject, and if so, in what way; the
social changes that occurred as a result of the project implementation, the type and
value of such changes and their influence on the social fabric.
The management unit responsible for the day-to-day operation of the project,
is also evaluated by the committee. The unit prepares subproject plans and bidding
documents, carries out monitoring and supervision activities, in addition to financial
bookkeeping, which is closely examined by the committee auditors and reported
periodically to the PWP.
Box 111-3: Evaluation Indicators
In order to evaluate and gauge the success of a PWP project both independently and compared to
other similar labor-based projects, a set of generic indicators were prepared. These indicators were
categorized according to the respective project components, and were related to the overall welfare of
the targeted beneficiares. Specific indicators relevant to a particular project component were
examined to verify the positive impact of its output.
Puve iy Aleviation Indkaiors
1. Social Services: Potable water, wastewater and pond fiing
a) Improved health conditions
b) Lower infant mortality rates
c) Landscaped and recreational activities on landfills
2. Economic Services: Roads, bui:ding refurbishment and marketplaces
-a) Better traffic and reduced travel time
b) Lower vehicular maintenance expenditure
c) Better transportation of crops and goods
d) Better hygiene
e) Increase in student enrollment
3. Productive Services: Canal cleaning and bank protection
a) Increase in agricultural production
b) More diversified crops
c) Improved water flow
d) Reduced water losses
Job Creation Indicators
1. Laborers who temporarily worked on PWP projects during implementation.
2. Permanent jobs created subsequent to subproject completion on O&M activities.
3. New business opportunities generated for the young entrepreneurs who worked on PWP projects
as small contractors, and who started their own businesses after acquiring proper training on
PWP projects.
4. Support to local contractors by enhancing their managerial and quality control capabilities and
providing them with new ventures to expand.
4. Achievements
PWP projects succeeded in responding to the needs of poor rural communities
by providing them with basic infrastructure and creating temporary and permanent
16



employment opportunities. Projects were carrieci out emciently at a competitive unit
cost and were based on rigorous and sound economic and environmental analyses.
They were demand-driven and effective targeting was undertaken. PWP activities
were labor-based with a labor component ranging from 25% (potable water) to 50%
(canal covering). The widespread presence of PWP activities and services increased
people's awareness of the SFD and gained their confidence. Community contributions
(at least at 10% in cash) were successful.
Box 111.4: Assessina the ImPact of a. PWP Proiect
A survey was-carried out by the SFD in Menoufia Govemorate on Zawiet El Naoora Project, whose
components were a 200-cubic meter elevated tank and its connecung pipe networks. The tank was
constructed to provide drinking water for two low income villages, serving a total population of 35,000.
Prior to the project,  approximately 25%  of the sampled households fetched water from a
contaminated public pump often several times daily, with an average of one hour per trip. Survey
results indicated that 40% of this sample saved up to two hours daily after the new tank was
constructed. Water consumption increased by 50%, and was utilized for drinking (63%), personal
hygiene (68%), washing and cleaning (88%) and cooking (51%). The incidence of diarrhea dropped
from 30% to 10%, and the average number of absenteeism from work decreased by 20%.
By entrusting the implementation of its projects only to private sector
contractors and local NGOs and PVOs, the PWP fostered the existence of such
entities and encouraged the establishment of new ones. It also helped to establish
better working relationships and means of communication between these entities and
local governments. NGOs and PVOs that worked as contractors on PWP projects
benefited from the experience and profits gained, by being able to better equip their
offices and work facilities. The indirect institutional support provided to NGOs and
PVOs was considered in many cases, the long awaited source of income that helped
keep them in business and allow them to provide more services to their local
communities.
S. Challen-'es and Constraints
The basic idea of sustainable development relies on public participation. This
primarily revolves around the institution of a cost recovery scheme to generate funds
to support future maintenance activities. However, .. Egypt, local taxes are almost
nonexistent, and if present, are collected and transferred to the central government to
be equally distributed. The existing system creates levels of bureaucracy and renders
local authorities unable to levy taxes and hence raise any funds locally.
Another challenge faced by the PWP was the fact that NGOs lacked the
expertise and financial capacity to carry out maintenance and sustainability efforts. The
PWP commissioned studies to investigate the capabilities of local NGOs in a variety of
rural governorates to exarine their ability to participate in maintenance and
sustainability activities. The ability of most NGOs was found to be inadequate.
However, if it is construed that NGOs in rural Egypt are ill-financed and do not harbor
the needed qualified personnel, it is also true that there are exceptions. The PWP was
aware of the successful activities of few NGOs in rural Egypt and tried to capitalize on
their experience, as models and lessons learnt, to help activate other NGOs.
17



(lven these constraints and the atsence or Snort term soLutions, ttie e'We
attempted throughout Phase I to take advantage of the available resources in the most
effective way. Well-trained and equipped with the necessary premises, equipment,
vehicles and functioning administrative and financial systems, PWP project managers
and their staff were considered the appropriate personnel to supervise the new
maintenance programs, after attending short orientation and technical training
seminars. The PWP had an operating project management staff in each of the
governorates. Headed by a project manager and authorized by the project's SA to
carry out the project's day-to-day activities, the staff were aware of all subprojects
funded by the SFD, and were familiar with PWP project conditions and guidelines.
Such staff were an excellent asset in rural Egypt, and would be able to cooperate with
local NGOs tr. work out a locally-financed comprehensive maintenance system in the
future.
6. The PWPs New Orientations
In light of the PWP's field experience during SFD Phase I, a more focused and
refined policy is proposed in order to gear efforts towards enhanced sustainable
development. The PWP intends to adopt a strategy to provide a comprehensive
development package, fine-tuned to the needs of impoverished rural areas and urban
pockets.
A new integrated development package relies on a custom-tailored list of basic
services evolving from a needs assessment study, and concentrated in selected satellite
villages in Upper and Lower Egypt; with concentrations in Upper Egypt and rural
areas. Satellite villages will be targeted based on location, proximity to urban areas,
assessed needs, ability to receive integrated packages, short and long term job creation
capabilities, and anticipated socio-economic impact. This integrated strategy is aimed
at redirecting the efforts of local government towards the importance of
comprehensive work in order to help replicate similar concepts in other villages. The
PWP plans to collaborate more closely with a lower level of SAs such as marakez and
local directorates. CDAs, PVOs and NGOs are also viewed as the expected targeted
fund recipients in the next phase. The PWP is funding an essential activity to foster the
creation of small contractors through targeted training in rural Egypt.
The PWP also plans to utilize the expertise of successful NGOs to launch the
O&M program and bring it up to speed, in association with the local inexperienced
and ill-financed NGOs, until the latter are completely capable to run the system on
their own. The financing of these NGOs will be totally covered by the SFD. The PWP
believes that the participation of NGOs in this program is essential to its success.
Initially, funds will be partially collected from the beneficiaries in order to involve them
in the process. NGOs will be responsible for supervising the works or contracting out
maintenance jobs to local private contractors. In addition, an intensive training and
public awareness agenda will be directed towards targeted personnel and inhabitants,
respectively, to convince and prepare them to participate in the O&M program. These
sessions will be attended by the local project management staff responsible for
supervising the maintenance program, as well as selected influential villagers and local
NGO members. The sessions will stress the general benefits of maintenance and the
advantages expected to be gained by individuals.
18



Most marakez in Egypt's governorates nave iocai maintenance centers tnat are
well located within the marka-, efficiently equipped and often skillfully manned with
experienced personnel. A number of these maintenance centers are functioning today
under local management. Other workshops are available in village local units. These
are also appropriately located, well equipped but not necessarily properly manned.
This asset could be tapped into by contracting out work to markaz maintenance
centers to perform maintenance work, and by training local personnel to revitalize
village workshops to participate in PWP maintenance programs. In addition, annual
contractors have been previously hired on a limited basis due to lack of funds, by local
units to perform maintenance work on basic services projects. The PWP could restart
this activity by funding such private contractors to participate in maintenance
programs.
19



B. THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENI PROGRAM
1. Pro ram Rationale and Objectives
The Community Development Program (CDP) was designed to model
innovative projects that would alleviate poverty and upgrade the quality of living
standards for the poorest segments of the population. This was to be carried out in
partnership with NGOs and the beneficiary communities. The Program aimed at: (i)
enhancing the accessibility of funds to the targeted communities; (ii) providing basic
human needs and primary health care services to deprived areas, and; (iii) upgrading
the capacity of NGOs and increasing their involvement in the development process.
2. Program Activities
The objectives of the CDP were to be achieved through a range of activities,
which fall under two major headings: Social Development Activities and Productive
Activities. Project implementation through the CDP embraced these two types of
activities, either in part or in whole.
The CDP implemented comprehensive community development packages,
which included various complementary components of both productive and social
development activities. The Program worked in close association with the PWP, which
provided for basic infrastructure, such as fresh water supply, sanitary networks and
road rehabilitation. It also worked with the EDP. which provided loans for nroductise
activities beyond the ceiling established by the CDP.
2.1 Social DevelopmentActivities
The CDP's social development activities were designed to raise the quality of
life of community members through the provision, increased accessibility or
improvement of basic services, primarily in health, education and the environment.
Health: Primary health care took into account: preventive care and
immunization; maternal and child care; women's health; population and family
planning services; first aid and emergency services; diagnostic services; data collection,
registration and processing; servicing deprived areas; support to the handicapped, and;
training of health, paramedical and auxiliary personnel.
Education: In terms of Education, the CDP focused on illiteracy eradication
and school drop-outs. Two approaches were used to fund literacy activities. The first,
which usually took place at the governorate level, was entrusted to the General
Authority for Literacy and Adult Education as the major implementing agency. The
second financed special literacy programs at the community level, which were
implemented by NGOs. Special emphasis was given to female literacy as well as the
integration of these activities within other community development activities.
Commensurate with illiteracy was the problem of school drop-outs. This issue
was addressed through Community Schools and Single Classroom Schools.
Community Schools provided an effective basic education program to serve rural
20



communities deprived of primary schools, and were based on community participation.
Artistic activities and vocational training were offered to children attending classes.
Box 1I1-5: Assessing the ImPact of Community Schools
A survey carried out by the SFD on the CDP's Multi-Purpose Development Project in Assiut illustrated
that community schools were particularly successful in promoting the education of the girl-child, since
70% of the total children enrolled were girls. These schools were also considered successful by the
children in their communities due to the absence of physical punishment (67%), the existence of
creative activities (56%) and the proximity of the school to the home (44%). The children claimed to
have acquired reading and writing proficiency (over 80%), and drawing and artistic skills (43%). In
addition to the high enrollment figures that underscored the effectiveness of the schools, the survey
indicated their impact on changing the general attitude towards the education of girls. Up to 89% of
iiUe parents were eager to register their daughters in the school, and 56% of the individuals in the
community joined efforts to establish additional schools. Moreover, approximately 20% of the field and
technical coordinators interviewed noted a drop in the incidence of early marriage.
One Classroom Schools for girls, the second type of institution to address
female school drop-outs, provided basic education for girls aged 8 to 14 years. Each
class catered to different educational levels. These schools were implemented in
remote deprived areas. They were coupled with vocational training aimed at preparing
girls to be engaged in income generating activities.
Gender: Gender issues were addressed during Phase I of the SFD through the
Women in Development (WID) Unit. The main objective of this Unit was to increase
woinen's participation, empowermenm, ownership and access to all CDP activities. The
Unit actively participated in local, regional and international seminars and conferences
on gender.
Population and Family Planning: Population and family planning represented
one of the SFD's priority areas, and included family planning activities, comprising
health services and information, and education and communication; raising the living
standards of the target population through targeted education and health initiatives;
women's empowerment through the promotion of economic activities aimed at
economic self-reliance, and; extending gender and population activities to CDP-
supported projects insofar as possible.
The Environment: Environment and community support activities were
intended to improve the quality of life at the grassroots level. They included: water
supply and sanitation/building latrines; comprehensive waste disposal systems/garbage
recycling; community environmental improvement activities, and; environmental
awareness campaigns.
2.2 Productive Activities
During Phase I of its operations, the CDP funded productive activities with
grants and loans for low income population groups in rural and urban areas. The CDP
financed working capital, training and the equipment required for the beneficiaries to
start an economically productive activity or to expand an existing one. The credit
facilities were extended to finance fixed assets and/or working capital. The grants were
used to cover technical assistance - including vocational and managerial training -
21



needed by either the intermediary agency (IA) or the beneficiaries, and the operational
costs of the IA.
Productive activities included cottage industries, animal raising (cattle, poultry
and rabbits), service delivery, handicrafts, small trade and others. They generated
permanent and temporary jobs at the community level. The interest charged to the
beneficiaries was a low rate of 8% to 9%, with a grace period calculated according to
the type of activity. In an SFD survey carried out in Assiut on one of the CDP's
projects, it was noted that the majority of the beneficiaries engaged in productive
activities were female heads of households with extremely low literacy skills, who, for
the most part, had never had access to micro credit before the project.
23 Needs Assessment
During CDP Phase I, needs assessment was a combination of top down and
participatory approaches. It was nonetheless carried out, as much as possible, through
a participatory approach that encouraged the community to formulate its needs and
rank them by order of priority. Needs were channeled to the CDP through community
organizations, although these institutions were usually poorly organized and lacked the
capacity to transform community needs into tangible and clear demands.
The CDP worked on two different levels. In the short run, it attempted to
determine what the different community needs were, through surveys and field work.
In the long term, it worked on improving the local organizations' capacity to assess
and formulate community needs.
2.4 Tar,ednr
The CDP used several mechanisms to guarantee service delivery to the poor.
Geographical targeting was one approach in which project services were offered to
population groups in deprived areas: Here, the CDP used the poverty index by
governorate to ensure that resources were allocated proportionately. Priority was
given to the poorer govemorates of Upper Egypt, the poorer Delta governorates, and
squatter urban settlements. Another targeting approach used by the CDP was to carry
out schemes that had incentive effects as a by-product of their principal action of
selecting the targeted beneficiaries. An example is the Family Development Project
which targeted families with two children and provided them with loans for income
generating activities. At the same time, the Project encouraged family planning and
child spacing. Self-targeted projects was the third mechanism, and included projects
whose nature of services and/or activities defined its beneficiaries, such as illiteracy
projects for street children.
In all of its projects, the CDP required that the EA identify the beneficiaries. A
beneficiary profile was subsequently established to ensure proper targeting. The
Program followed the poverty index, which was designed at the outset of the SFD's
inception and has directed the CDP's overall targeting efforts so far. In relation to the
targeting/needs assessment of individual projects, the CDP relied to a great extent on
local NGOs to perform this task, since they were best aware of their community needs.
Capacity building training programs were organized for NGOs.
22



3. Operational Framework
The CDP does not implement projects directly, or by itself It requires an IA
which takes on the responsibility of project implementation. A variety of agencies can
submit and implement projects, such as NGOs, community-based organizations,
governmental and parastatal organizations.
lAs fall under the following categories: (i) A sponsoring agency, which works
in full participation with the CDP; (ii) a bridging agency, required when the flow of
information and/or activities necessitate "bridging", and; (iii) an implementing agency,
responsible for actual implementation. A single project can be implemented by more
than one agency on a collaborative basis.
The CDP also takes advantage of the SFD regional offices, which represent an
outreach service for the SFD at the national level. The regional offices undertake the
following activities for the CDP: (i) Promoting the CDP's objectives and activities; (ii)
identifying SAs and projects; (iii) assisting in targeting projects and identifying the
beneficiaries; (iv) presenting project concepts to the CDP for preliminary approval; (v)
in the case of an approved project, being involved in data collection and providing the
information necessary to allow the CDP to formulate the project document; (vi) field
monitoring the projects, and; (vii) providing feedback to the CDP about the project's
implementation.
Box il-6. CDP Selection Criteria
CDP Projects
.  Respond to local community needs, with special attention to the needs of the poorest segment of
the population. Projects are developed by and/or for the beneficiary.
.  Sensitive to women's needs and gender mainstream issues, and ensure women's participation in
development
.  Promote income generating activities, particularly with respect to unemployed youth.
.  Put forward by a SA with the adequate capacity to implement the project and assure, its
sustainability.
.  Environmentally sound.
.  Sustainable, that is, activities developed under a project will continue to be viable through the
resources it generates, after the SFD has ended its support.
. Include clear indicators through which their immediate and long term effects 3re monitored and
measured.
The CDP Benefiiary (institution or Individuao
.  The CDP supports institutions that seek to improve their capacity so that they can better serve a
community or individuals within the community, by providing andlor upgrading basic services in
health, education, family planning, the environment, and gender areas. It also supports
institutions that aim at poverty alleviation and extend care to the handicapped.
.  The CDP supports institutions assisting individuals through job creation. In this respect, the SFD
promotes capacity building of the institution to allow for greater efficacy.
.  In exceptional cases, the CDP can help individuals who take initiatives in creating jobs for others.
.  To alleviate poverty, the CDP extends specially to women.
In addition to resorting to lAs and the SFD's regional offices, the CDP has
specific tasks during project preparation and implementation: (i) Screening project
concept papers and/or proposals presented by the regional office; (ii) in case of
preliminary approval, coordinating with the regional office to collect the data
necessary for project formulation; (iii) pre-appraising and appraising the projects
23



presented; (iv) tinalizing the project contract; (v) monitoring project impiemenration
and providing technical assistance, and; (vi) coordinating with the regional office for
follow-up in the field. The CDP either receives projects or puts them together. The
usual channel for the projects is through the SFD's respective regional office, which
carries out a basic review of the projects.
Funding by the CDP is either through grants or loans. Grants were allocated to
projects concerned with service delivery, such as health care, illiteracy, and garbage
collection; and institutions for capacity building and training. A limited amount of
grants was provided for activities such as exhibitions, fairs, national and international
conferences, and research serving CDP objectives. During Phase I, grants to the CDP
were allocated to the following areas: education (LE 135 million), health and
population (LE 110 million), the environment (LE 10 million), and NGO capacity-
building (LE 1.5 million). Loans were disbursed through SAs to support productive
activities, and were channeled to the following areas: productive families (LE 60
million), and micro-credit through NGOs (LE 30.5 million). Pre-conditions for loans
included a simple feasibility study by each beneficiary.
4. Project Cvcle
With the help of project formats specially designed for this purpose, CDP
project proposals are prepared by the beneficiaries or the supporting institution, and
submitted to the CDP office in Cairo and/or one of the SFD's regional offices. While
this is the preferred procedure. project proposals can also be directly submitted to
SFD headquarters. This is lengthier, however, as the proposals will have to be
forwarded to the relevant regional office for the preparation of an initial review. In
case the project is merely in its conceptual stage, the beneficiary or the institution may
refer to the CDP's technical staff to discuss ideas and develop an adequate project
proposal.
A project proposal is then reviewed during staff meetings, and allocated to one
of the program officers of the CDP. The proposal is elaborated into its final format in
close collaboration with the SA and/or the beneficiary. It is then reviewed and
approved by an appraisal committee. Once approved, the proposal is forwarded to the
SFD's Projects and Planning Department, which reviews the proposal, ascertains the
adequacy of the indicators for monitoring and evaluating the project, and subdivides
the project into phases according to output and budget. The project is finally reviewed
by the Finance Department and the legal documents are prepared for signing the
project contract.
Once the documents are signed, the first tranche of the budget is disbursed
and deposited into a separate bank account. Implementation can then begin. Project
implementation can only be pursued if it proves effective, and positive feedback is
reported on a regular basis.
4.1 Reyortinr and Auditng
The CDP's reporting system includes a periodic review and updating of work
plans. It consists of the following sequence: (i) A monthly report, submitted by the SA
or the IA to the CDP or the regional office. In addition to a description of the work
24



accomplished during the project's implementation phase, this report reflects the
financial and technical aspects of the project. It highlights difficulties or obstacles
encountered during implementation, and suggests the corrective measures to be taken;
(ii) bi-annual and annual reports, summarizing activities and financing, and; (iii) reports
based on qualitative and quantitative information collected during field visits, required
prior to disbursements. Milestone activities are highlighted in these reports.
Auditing determines the degree of compliance with the CDP's work plans and
budget. An internal audit usually takes place at unspecified intervals of the project
cycle, and may be triggered by routine visits to the project site. It consists of two
types: a financial audit, and a performance and management audit. Findings of the
audit determine existing deviations from the work plan, and suggest corrective action.
During the course of 1996, the SFD's Internal Audit Department conducted
audits on eight CDP projects, whose budgets ranged from LE 135,000 to LE 9.5
million. In the case of one of the projects audited, for instance, it was found that the
budget designated for certain components had been channeled to areas which did not
fall under the realm of CDP funding. The total of these misused funds were calculated
and deducted from the project's overall budget. In the case of another CDP project, it
was found that the administration of the project was weak and the recordings were
inadequate. Measures were taken by the Audit Department and CDP staff to help
strengthen these areas and improve overall capacity.
4.2 Monitotnr and Evaluation
Indicators are required for monitoring the immediate effects of a CDP project
and evaluating their longer term impact. In social work, measurable indicators are
difficult to establish, and most of the work depends on qualitative aspects. A
continuous effort is therefore made in this respect.
For CDP projects, monitoring consisted of checking on a set of actions within
a specific time frame. It tracked progress according to a previously agreed work plan
and criteria. The methodology was based on data collected during field visits by
representatives of the CDP. Milestones were an essential instrument in this process.
Evaluation is more intermittent and is crucial as a learning process for an
institution that aims at perfecting itself like the SFD. Two evaluation approaches were
adopted by the CDP: (i) Process and summative evaluation of a specific project, and;
(ii) evaluation of a specific aspect across a number of projects. In both approaches, the
CDP regarded communities not only as end beneficiaries, but also as key factors that
carry out comprehensive activities. Evaluation teams were either internal and made up
of SFD staff, or external from an agency other than the SFD.
3. Achievements
The CDP has succeeded in distributing resources to communities previously
underserved by government organizations and the private sector, and was timely in
processing and implementing its projects and delivering its services. It has addressed
poverty alleviation by promoting self-help activities and implementing health and
education packages in deprived areas. For instance, the micro credit program included
25



components such as health awareness and illiteracy eradication that improved the living
standards of the poor.
The provision of basic social services was accompanied by an employment
generation component for low income and unskilled labor. The construction of schools
and health centers stimulated demand for local industries and absorbed a portion of the
labor force in the concerned communities. Income generating schemes were
implemented through the Productive Families projects and the establishment of small
revolving funds for self-reliance productive activities and related training in
management and productive skills. The cumulative effect of these efforts contributed in
controlling rural-urban migration and provided incentives for young people to remain
in communities profiting from  increasing access to services and employment
opportunities.
The CDP stimulated community participation in project selection, design and
implementation. As a result of this growing involvement, communities developed a
sense of ownership towards the projects supported by the SFD and showed willingness
to share in their financing and maintenance. The status of women was also enhanced
through a participatory approach and the provision of specially targeted social and
productive activities. In an attempt to raise the level of self-esteem among poor
women, CDP activities included them as representatives on the boards of local
committees; and in order to raise their productivity, the CDP expanded their access to
basic education, health services, training, credit and improved infrastructure.
The CDP has supported the involvement of NGOs in project implementation
through financial and technical support and overall capacity building. It has encouraged
the involvement of local governments in prioritizing, preparing and supervising project
execution. This can be considered a positive step towards increased decentralization.
The CDP also attempted to provide ministries with workable models of delivery
mechanismns, and encouraged the concept of public-private partnership for the delivery
of social services by involving private contractors, consultants and staff. This proved to
be successful. CDP project staff were recruited to work in ministries after the
completion of their tasks, and data as well as models developed by the Program were
utilized by the public sector in their own operations.
6. Challenzes and Constraints
The novelty of the SFD as a development organization, the experimental phase
it went through in its first years, the limnited staff members relative to the number of
received proposals, and the disparities between the capacities of the regional offices
were questions of concern to the overall organization. The CDP was especially
concemed with the problem of limited staff with limited experience in the CDP's areas
of activity. In particular, it was faced with the acute dilemma between limited resources
(staff, space, hardware, etc.) and disbursement pressures. The Program was affected by
the conflicting interests of donors, and the lack of synergy between their objectives and
disbursement schedules.
The limited capacity of community development NGOs working in poverty
zones was another issue of special concern to the CDP. An increasing effort was
directed towards capacity building, and the sharing of information and experience
26



between large and small NGOs. Resistance from ministries to work with NGOs also
led to considerable delays, although this trend began to decrease due to the persistent
efforts of the CDP and its successful cooperation with NGOs during SFD Phase 1.
Still, there is a dire need to exert incessant efforts by the CDP to strengthen real
cooperation between ministries (especially the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of
Social Affairs) and NGOs, and to reach a workable mechanism between NGOs and the
SFD.
The lack of a clear working methodology and defined screening criteria for
project appraisal was another constraint to the CDP's operations. As a result, the
CDP's micro-enterprise program supported subprojects that had weak business plans,
on the one hand, and activities for which the market was already saturated, on the
other. Defaults on loan repayment was inevitably related to these issues. The CDP's
response to this problem was to confer greater attention to marketability, to ensure a
reasonable allocation of resources, and also to other important factors such as training,
rehabilitation, and feasibility studies, together with more facilities to the beneficiaries,
namely financing the project site, lower interest rate, longer tax exemption, and the
creation of an insurance association for credit risks. Commercial banks have to be re-
educated to give more consideration to the social dimension. Intensive advocacy
campaigns have to focus on successful models and lessons learnt from projects
financed by the SFD.
27



C. THE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1. Prozram Rationale and Obiectives
Creating viable and sustainable employment opportunities was the main target
of the Enterprise Development Program (EDP). The EDP provided sustainable means
of income generation and contributed to the reduction of the adverse effects of
unemployment on vulnerable groups. While the EDP mainly addressed small and
micro enterprises (SMEs), it also had an impact on poverty alleviation programs by
creating employment opportunities at all levels of skills.
The institutional support mechanisms for the SME sector benefited the rural
sector, by creating synergy between the EDP and other rural development programs.
The EDP provided entrepreneurs with an integrated package of technical assistance,
training and credit, and used dual delivery mechanisms: (i) Banks were the main
intermediaries for the delivery of credit funds, and; (ii) technical assistance, provided
by NGOs, included identifying opportunities for the inception and growth of
enterprises, the development of projects, business plan preparation, marketing quality
counseling, and monitoring.
Box 111-7: EDP Aomroach and Strate-a
The Approach
The EDP applied the integrated systems approach, which tcok into account the creation of an
enabling environment, economic activity in all sectors for balanced growth; the removal of disparities
(regional, gender, rural, etc.); and the provision of a dual delivery channel for credit and technical
assistance.
The Strategy
The EDP developed a short and long term strategy based on a number of priorities. These priorities
were to identify and create nucleus feeder units for the large and medium sectors, and build clusters
of viable and sustainable small enterprises; to identify and create a nucleus for the manufacture of
products; to enhance and create post manufacturing support systems covering all aspects of
consumer satisfaction (quality, after sales service, market research, etc); to enhance and create
marketing and service organizations to support all manufacturing and non-manufacturing activities;
and to create resource centers as focal points.
2. Program Activities
To nurture early stage enterprise from start-up to survival and sustainability,
the EDP created the Beneficiary Support Unit (BSU) which: (i) received up to 2,000
beneficiaries per month to review their project proposals and assisted them in
elaborating feasibility studies (an average of 100 proposals per month were submitted
to the banks for their review); (ii) coordinated with banks to facilitate credit lending to
the beneficiaries; (iii) monitored SMEs in order to offer technical assistance when
required, and upgrade their performance through training, and; (iv) contributed to
reducing marketing problems that the beneficiaries faced by supporting their
participation in international and local fairs and exhibitions.
28



Box 111-8: Scope of EDP Activities
*  Promoting the creation of new sustainable job opportunities for the target groups through small
enterprises, encouraging their development on a large scale, and strengthening existing ones.
*  Alleviating unemployment through the creation of small enterprises, and enhancing youth
awareness of the significance of entrepreneurship as a choice for the future.
*  Promoting the concept of self-employment among the youth by encouraging training and
educational institutions to include entrepreneurship courses in their curricula in all stages of
education.
*  Providing opportunities for acquiring professional technical and administrative training.
*  Cooperating with other agencies working in the development of SMEs in Egypt.
*  Establishing demonstration and productivity centers to improve the productivity of small
enterprises and transfer the appropriate technologies to the small entrepreneurs.
*  Promoting potential competitive industries in Egypt, through the creation of quality and
productivity centers.
*  Promoting high value-added, innovative products and services for domestic and international
markets, by establishing linkages between universities, industries and research institutions.
*  Providing funds to NGOs in order to build their capacities for delivering training and other services
to the end beneficiaries.
One of the EDP's activities during Phase I was to conduct a number of studies
to evaluate the potentiality of establishing the first business incubators in Egypt. These
studies were part of a strategy to: (i) eventually establish small business incubators
nationwide; (ii) set a national policy framework for the design of small enterprise
centers; (iii) encourage technology-based enterprises, and the active participation of
technical institutions and national research centers, and; (iv) make use of international
expertise this field. A  design and an implementation plan were prepared for the
following locations, as a first phase: Menoufia (Tala), Dakahliya (Mansoura), Giza (6th
of October City), Aswan (Aswan City), Assiut (Assiut City), Ain Shams
University/Cairo (Faculty of Engineering), and Sharkiya (lOth of Ramadan).
Implementation began in Menoufia and Dakahliya, and the Egyptian Incubator
Association was established by an initiative of the EDP in 1995, to act as the
sponsoring agency.
2.1 Needs Assessment
Needs assessment was carried out through: (i) a monitoring and feedback
system, which included the BSU and a record of the beneficiaries' questions and
"complaints", site visits, regional offices reports, and diagnostic studies, and; (ii)
market assessments, which included analyses of market parameters and forces, the
development of outreach mechanisms; enterprise expansion, and; the promotion of
diversified service packages. In promoting entrepreneurship, the EDP took into
account such factors as the often limited creativity of SMEs, their individuality, and
their lack of organization.
2.2 Tar-?etin
In Egypt, interest rates, which tend to be relatively high, are a major constraint
to the development of SMEs. They often inhibit the build-up of an entrepreneurial
culture and in turn, limit enterprise inception. They also render many projects
financially unfeasible, although these projects might be viable at lower interest rates.
29



The target category of the EDP includes unemployed graduates and small
entrepreneurs, who are often faced with the difficulty of accessing credit through the
normal channels of credit delivery for the reasons mentioned above. Throughout Phase
1, the provision of credit by the EDP was promoted as a cost-effective measure with
quantifiable results. EDP-supported projects that provided credit were considered an
important means by which small entrepreneurs were able to increase their control over
income and access to resources.
To ensure targeting effectiveness, the EDP established certain criteria against
which potential candidates for EDP loans were screened. In line with the SFD's efforts
to alleviate poverty, one of the most important of these criteria for self-targeting
stipulated that the individual assets of loan applicants were not to exceed $10,000.
Technical support, business counseling, training and facilitated access to credit,
enabled and encouraged borrowers to honor their repayment obligations.
Box 111-9: Tamretina Effectiveness and Social Impact
A survey was conducted during 1995, to assess the targeting effectiveness and social impact of SFD
projects. Assessing the social, impact of EDP projects was relatively simple to measure, given the
Program's objective of combating unemployment. The result of the survey showed that the average
loan size was LE 17,000. Over 70% of the loans were of small sizes - up to LE 15,000 - with 43% of
the loans being in the range of LE 10,000.15,000. Most enterprises had no partners (87%) and 64% of
them were new. Enterprises were concentrated mainly in the sectors of animal husbandry (39%),
followed by trade and commercial activities (25%) and services. The average permanent employment
opportunities per enterprise was 1.7, due to the higher incidence of small size loans. This average
increased with the loan size, to reach 2.1 permanent employment opportunities per enterprise fnr loans
up to LE 50,000. Whereas 60% of the permanenit jobs created through these enterprises required
skilled labor, 44% of total temporary jobs created were filled by semi-skilled workers; With respect to
training and technical assistance requirements, about 34%A needed financial assistance - usually bigger
loan sizes - and 23% required marketing assistance. Most beneficiaries (86%A) perceived an
improvement in their standard of living, due to their participation in the EDP projects.
3. Operational Framework
The EDP operates through the Program itself, the BSU, the regional offices
and lAs that play an important role in program operations. The regional offices in
particular are essential to the EDP and perform the following functions: (i) Raising
awareness of the EDP's objectives, mission, and procedures for obtaining funds; (ii)
determining basic local community needs throughout the governorates, and providing
feedback  to  the  Program; (iii) identifying  the  appropriate  governmental and
nongovernmental organizations to act as SAs, and enhancing their technical and
managerial capacities to effectively achieve EDP objectives; (iv) studying the needs of
the regional community in light of the EDP's priorities, and attempting to fill existing
gaps; (v) assessing the project proposals presented by SAs, and presenting them to the
EDP; (vi) monitoring and reporting the performance of all the parties involved in the
implementation of EDP projects, and; (vii) organizing training courses and awareness
campaigns for the parties involved in the implementation of EDP projects.
The regional offices played a crucial role in encouraging the banks to assist the
beneficiaries in obtaining loans, and following up on the beneficiaries' ability to repay
the loans back. The offices regularly submitted reports to the EDP concerning their
activities. These reports also included analyses of monitoring activities, data on the
enterprises, and recommendations.
30



EDP projects were carried out using a model that was developed in 1993. This
model assigned the SA and the EA with joint responsibility for project implementation,
since the roles of both types of agencies were complementary for the projects
supported by the SFD. In return for their tasks, each of them received payment, which
could take the form of either an institutional development grant (as in the case of
NGOs) or a fee (as in the case of banks). Usually, the grants or fees were determined
as a percentage of the amount disbursed by the SFD for financing the project.
Fi-ure III-I: Modelfor Implementing EDP Projects
Grants                                   Loans
(Training & Technical Assistance)                (Credit Line)
T          feasibility studies
Beneficiaries with
to.e-faas'bilty' 3tudios or
project ideas
The lAs through which the EDP operated were Qf two different types: (i) Non-
Financial Institutions included NGOs and PVOs, governmental organizations,
educational institutions, private and public sector companies, and ministries. They
enjoyed an autonomous legal status, and were licensed to receive grants or loans, to
implement project activities; disposed of a highly technical and managerial
administration to monitor project execution; were engaged in the geographical location
of the target groups, and were in direct contact with them to assess their needs;
prepared project proposals in accordance with SFD criteria and guidelines, and
developed preliminary feasibility studies of the projects; implemented the projects, and;
had a sound administrative and technical structure; (ii) Financial Institutions included
banks, which were selected according to the following criteria: Their history,
experience and network of branches; areas of specialization and their relation to the
SFD's projects and activities; technical and managerial efficiency; financial status and
credit system, and; their readiness to submit periodic reports to the SFD. Banks
followed up on the day-to-day activities of EDP-supported enterprises, and submitted
monthly reports that related to the new loans allocated, the sectoral distribution of the
loans (27% industry, 34% agriculture and animal production, 23% services, and 15%
trade), gender (25% of borrowers were women by the end of Phase I), the location of
enterprises, and repayments.
31



4. Project Cycle
The beginning of an EDP's project cycle involves an assessment by the
Program of the SA's capacity to carry out the project in accordance with SFD criteria.
Meetings are arranged between EDP and SA representatives to discuss the details of
the project and to prepare a project document. After the EDP's assessment of the
project document, the SA is informed of the Program's remarks, and amendments are
made if necessary. Once these amendment are made and approved by the EDP, an
appraisal committee discusses the project. The results are submitted to the SFD's
Executive Committee for final approval. The SA then completes and finalizes all data
necessary and documents required, according to EDP specifications. The EDP
elaborates a framework agreement to be signed by the SFD and the SA, and the
project enters its phase of execution.
A steering committee made up of SFD representatives is formed to draw up
the necessary steps for project implementation, and the project is regularly monitored
through site visits. Evaluation reports are periodically submitted to the EDP from the
banks, and a management committee assesses the project on a quarterly basis to
ensure that the project's objectives are being fulfilled.
Box I1110: Monitoring and Evaluation of EDP Projects
The monitoring and evaluation of EDP projects is carried out through:
i . visits to the beneTiciary enterprises at least twice a year, and questionnaires that include
information on: defaulted enterprises; problems that the beneficiaries might have faced; the size
of the loan, and; the number of jobs created.
2. Banking reports, which include information on: the amount of money disbursed from the credit
line to the beneficiaries and intermediaries; the amount of defaulted loans, and; the number of
beneficiaries.
3. Reports from the regional offices.
4. Reports from EAs.
5. Achievements
The EDP has created full employment, prime income job opportunities for all
levels of skills by the inception of new enterprises and the expansion of existing ones.
It has also enhanced the entrepreneurial culture by information and awareness, and has
brought a large number of enterprises into the formal sector through the provision of
credit. The developmental attitude has helped build confidence and trust in the SFD
system, which was manifested by the increasing demand for SFD funds. In line with
the character of SMEs to meet the needs of the local markets and exploit local skills
and resources, efforts were made for the identification of local opportunities to be the
focal point of economic activity for enterprise inception and growth.
The EDP has successfully provided packages of technical assistance, business
counseling, training and credit. In addition to making credit and business support
services available to a wide range of new and existing SMEs, the EDP was engaged in
the development of traditional enterprises as well as widening the market of SMEs
through new innovative sectoral programs such as fish farms, cattle-raising, and
sericulture production. It has also assisted to a very large extent in spreading an
32



entrepreneurship attitude and spirit of investment among a broad base of the Egyptian
public, especially new graduates.
With the experience it has gained during Phase I, the EDP has particularly
improved its services in strengthening the level of technology used by the enterprises.
enhancing their management and marketing skills, and improving their marketing
channels. Most notably, the EDP was actively engaged in creating an enabling
environment for the inception of SMEs by helping facilitate legal procedures,
spreading an entrepreneurial culture, identifying enterprise opportunities, and
institutional build-up.
The EDP also addressed the important issues of regional imbalances, rural
development and women's empowerment. Where feasible, a minimum percentage of
women beneficiaries was mandatory. EDP projects were all monitored to take into
account their impact on the environment, and special projects were developed for
managing the environment, such as solid waste disposal and recycling. To promote
inherent skills and make them globally competitive, projects like sericulture and leather
manufacturing were developed; these interfaced at all levels of society in both the rural
and urban sectors.
6. Challenges and Constraints
Given the SFD's role of meeting the needs of low income groups through
poverty alleviation and emplovment generation, it soon became necessary to apply its
funds in programs that offered below market rate interest on loans. This form of
funds' application was justified due to fact that the SFD was not a financial institution
but rather a social safety net. One of the principal challenges facing the EDP during
Phase I was therefore to ensure the acceptance by the donors of a lower interest rate.
Through much negotiation and given the success of the SFD in meeting and going
beyond the objectives it had fixed itself at the outset, this issue was resolved. A lower
interest rate of 7% on new enterprises and 9% on existing ones (the SFD was charging
real interest rates which were slightly above inflation levels), an extended grace period
of up to one year, and a repayment schedule of up to four years based on the
cashflows of the project, were considered necessary to build on and expand future
operations.
The EDP worked increasingly with NGOs, which were generally the EAs
responsible for technical support, marketing and promotion. The Program offered
grants and lines of credit to NGOs on a temporary and short term basis. However, the
promotion of micro-lending through these organizations was not without difficulties
due to their weak capacities, and the question of enhancing their institutional
capacities over a short period of time. The EDP attempted to overcome these issues
through the provision of need-based institutional support by covering the NGOs'
initial operational expenses. The EDP attempted to consolidate NGOs as local centers
of economic activity, and as viable and gradually self-sustainable delivery mechanisms.
In order to expand SMEs in accordance with EDP policy, banks are usually the
SAs which borrow funds from the Program and on-lend to borrowers. In addition to
providing loans to small entrepreneurs, banks take the commercial risk and are entirely
responsible for following up on individual small loans until full repayment. One of the
33



challenges faced by the EDP during its first phase of operations was to provide banks
with information and a better understanding of SMEs, and to establish a trust and
better working relations between both parties. The EDP emphasized a credit
philosophy based on proper assessment of feasibility studies rather than collateral and
guarantees. This was carried out by holding frequent meetings with the banks
concerned, to evaluate their performance in extending loans to the beneficiaries,
minimizing the risk of default, ensuring rapid and efficient disbursement procedures,
and making periodic assessment of the results. These meetings improved the flow of
information between the banks and the EDP, and allowed for timely intervention by
the EDP to solve emerging issues during project implementation.
Among the issues the EDP had to initially address were the creation ef
adequate outreach and targeting mechanisms as well as selection criteria for
beneficiaries/SMEs applying for loans, and potential SAs. In addition, inadequate
information limited the effectiveness and responsiveness of the EDP at its outset. With
the help of the SFD's MIS and Credit Departments, a data base was established with
complete information on the beneficiaries (essential prior to granting a loan), the
SMEs (new or expanding), the SAs (activities and capacity), and the status of loans
(repayments and defaults).
34



D. THE EMPLOYMENT AND RETRAINING PROGRAM
1. Pro,eram Rationale and Obiectives
Since its establishment in 1991, the SFD has considered redundant public
enterprise workers as one of its main target groups. Through its efforts to address the
issue of overstaffing in public enterprises (PEs), the SFD has contributed to the
advancement of Egypt's privatization program.
The ERP was designed to increase the productivity and efficiency of PE
employees during and immediately following the restructuring of their firms, to help
themn acquire the skills needed to perform their duties at a significantly improved level.
It was also intended to formulate and fund training and retraining projects to assist
unemployed graduates whose skills were incompatible with market demands.
2. Program Activities
The ERP delivered labor adjustment programs that assisted PEs and workers
in finding solutions to actual or potential labor market problems, and to evaluate
opportunities for job creation and maintenance. The Program responded to: (i) PEs
that were expected to be privatized, by improving their overall performance in the
global market, and allowing them to gain a larger share of the market, and; (ii)
redundant PE workers who were compelled to leave their company.
Box 11l-11: Skills In Demand
It is essential that human resources development be developed on the basis of a clear understanding
of how enterprises are responding to ERSAP. Putting hand on the labor market information
requirements will create close links between human resources development efforts and the situation of
the labor market, and will guide human resources development in its attempts to support the reform of
vocational training and skills systems. Such an approach emphasizes the importance of the 'enabling
environment' for human resources development, and will identify additional measures to redeploy
redundant workers.
A pilot project was implemented in collaboration with CAPMAS and ILO in the governorates of
Alexandria, Assiut and Mansoura; and in conjunction with the GTZ project in other governorates (6 of
October 3nd 10' of Ramadan) targeting the same objective. The objectives of the project included: (i)
assessing labor market demand in small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employment and
entrepreneurship, and in the formal industrial sector, and; (ii) assessing the skills required for the
emerging market economy. Based on the results of the pilot project, a national survey of skills in
demand will be carried out, and a database will be established and updated annually.
The ERP also promoted and developed the institutional capacity of publicly-
funded training centers by designing new training modules and strengthening the
capacity of trainers. Training centers that were upgraded have effectively delivered
training and retraining to both unemployed graduates and redundant employees of
public enterprises, and have added significantly to the capacity to provide training and
retraining in Egypt.
2.1 Needs Assessment
Of the SFD's programs, the ERP is the most directly linked to Egypt's
economic reform program. As the country moved into its second phase of reforms
35



(ERSAP II), the current level of redundant workers - estimated at 30% to 40% - is
becoming a pressing issue. The role of the ERP has been to continue protecting PE
workers from the loss of security that accompanies economic restructuring and
development, through retraining, skills upgrading and preparation for alternative jobs.
The ERP has also played an expanded role in ensuring employment for new
graduates by assessing market needs, and upgrading training institutions. The disparity
between employment and the labor force led to unemployment estimated at 20.5% in
1993, of which 80% were university and technical secondary school graduates. Poor
education and training created a gap between available skills and market requirements.
2.2 Tar,etint
The ERP's target groups include PE workers and unemployed new graduates.
In order to determine the scope of redundancy and training associated with these two
groups, the ERP conducted a number of studies during Phase I. One of the studies
was a labor audit study using a random sample of 12 different PEs, to identify their
characteristics and level of redundancy, and to create a labor deployment strategy.
Another was a vocational training centers audit to identify the capabilities of these
centers, and establish a data base.
3. Operational Framework
In terms of labor adjustment, PEs' ma.nagement, trade unions, and professionaI
foreign and local consultancy firms were the lAs for the development and execution of
ERP projects. In the area of training, NGOs were responsible for the implementation
of programs aimed at the cost-effective creation of jobs for new graduates. During
Phase I, the ERP helped retrain and employ 5,360 graduates in various vocations such
as the tourism industry, underwater drilling, woodworking, O&M of construction
equipment and agricultural machinery, and other technical skills.
In the beginning of SFD Phase I, the ERP focused its efforts on the industrial
areas of Cairo, Giza and Alexandria, and coordinated primarily with the SFD's
regional office in Alexandria. However, with the increase in demand for labor
adjustment services, the ERP expanded its scope of operations to the Delta
(coordinating with the Dakahlia Office) and Upper Egypt (Minia Office). The Program
then began coordinating with all the regional offices by attempting to build their
capacity in order to enable them to deliver labor adjustment services in their respective
governorates and areas of work. It also conjoined with the offices to deliver training
and retraining projects, aimed at equipping new graduates with the skills that were in
high demand in the labor market.
4. Proiect Cycle
A project proposal is presented by an SA that is evaluated by the ERP. If
deemed acceptable, the proposal is presented to an appraisal committee. Once
approved, it is reviewed by the BOD or SFD Managing Director, before going
through the Finance Department for the preparation of the framework agreement.
Monitoring is carried out on monthly, quarterly and annual bases by the SA and the
ERP. A final evaluation is made at the end of each project.
36



4.1 Monitorin and Evaluation
For ERP projects, performance indicators include such outputs as: the number
of workers receiving compensation for early retirement; redundant workers receiving
retraining; redundant workers receiving assistance for starting new businesses, or; the
number of unemployed graduates being trained. For labor adjustment services, an
annual work plan is checked against its outcomes by the ERP on a regular basis, and
by CIDA monitors twice a year. For training activities, an evaluation report for each
course is completed by the training center, and given to the ERP on a regular basis,
both during the training course and upon its completion.
S. Achieven2ents
The ERP has delivered a labor adjustment program to assist PEs and workers
in finding solutions to actual or potential labor market problems. It has assessed
opportunities for job creation and maintenance. The Program also responded to the
needs of PEs selected for privatization, by improving their productivity and overall
performance. This was designed to enable them to gain larger market shares. In
addition, the ERP lent its assistance in addressing the issue of potential redundant PE
workers who were compelled to leave their jobs.
Box 11-12: Trainina Proiects in Partnershio With the Prvate Sector
The following are examples of demand-oriented training projects implemented with the assistance of
the ERP:
Youth Training on Tourism
A working model of training was implemented in collaboration with the Tourist Establishment
Chamber. Private sector enterprises working in the same field were involved in the training activity,
and participated in the curricula development, training center selection, trainees selection, and. post-
training examination for recruitment.
Youth Training on Wooden Industries
This project was implemented and sponsored by the Wooden Vocational Training Center affiliated to
the Syndicate of Applied Arts. The Center conducted a survey to identify private sector job openings in
the wooden industry, the skills needed, and timing. It developed and formulated demand-oriented
training programs,. and added a new trade to the Center to match the need in the labor market. A
contractual agreement was formed between the Syndicate and the private sector businessmen, and
was followed by the execution of the demand-oriented training activity. The project was successful and
will be extended to a second phase. The ERP provided support to build the Centers capacity in the
form of equipment for the new trade.
The ERP has equally worked on improving the institutional capacity of training
centers in Egypt, and has improved the capacity of training providers. It has provided
training and job opportunities for new graduates.
6. Challenges and Constraints
Due to its demand-driven nature and its dependence on the progress of
ERSAP, the ERP's efforts were considerably constrained by the slow implementation
of PE restructuring and the Government's privatization program. Slow economic
growth, high unemployment, and a lack of adequate social security and unemployment
support institutions rendered the prospects of displacing PE workers a particularly
37



sensitive issue that was perceived as carrying high costs. It was not until 1996 that the
ERP was launched at the anticipated speed and scale.
The initial design of the ERP considered the retrenchment of PE workers.
Upon the inception of the SFD in 1991, the objectives of the ERP were based on a
study by the World Bank that estimated the level of redundancy in PEs to be 10%
(almost 120,000 workers). The Program was intended to serve 60,000 workers
throughout Phase I. A study conducted by the ERP in 1993 demonstrated that the
level of redundancy was in fact up to 38% (over 250,000 workers). However, the
ERP eventually expanded its role to assist PEs in enhancing their productivity and
efficiency to allow them to retain and employ - as opposed to laying off or displacing
- the maximum number of persons. It broadened its scope of activity and developed a
more sustainable approach to its operations, by focusing on human resources
development and supporting demand-driven training and a partnership with the private
sector. Skills training and retraining programs were provided, and efforts were
directed at upgrading the institutional capacity of existing training centers to adapt the
performance of PE workers and new graduates to the needs of the labor market.
Among the factors that constrained the ERP's operations were the prevailing
labor laws that limited the scope of the Program's interventions in labor restructuring,
since retrenchment was only permitted on a voluntary basis. In addition,
unemployment insurance laws were poorly designed. Workers were not motivated to
voluntarily leave their positions, and the social security system and existing funds were
unab!e to cope with the trem-ndouLs scale of redundancy.
38



E. THE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNtENT PROGRAM
1. Proaram Rationale and Obiectives
The IDP plays an important role in the successful functioning of the SFD. It
was designed to strengthen the management and technical capabilities of the SFD and
IAs, so that they were able to implement their activities in a cost-effective and targeted
manner. Ultimately, the IDP was also intended to enhance the GOE's poverty
alleviation efforts and contribute to the creation of an effective social safety net.
2. Promram Activities
The activities of the IDP included: (i) conducting surveys, baseline data and
studies to strengthen the capacity of the SFD, particularly in targeting, monitoring and
evaluation operations; (ii) providing technical assistance for project implementation;
(iii) supporting the conduct of workshops, seminars and conferences on issues relevant
to the SFD's overall strategies, policies and operations, and; (iv) providing equipment
and covering administrative and operational costs for the SFD's technical secretariat.
IDP activities and services were provided to: the SFD's technical staff at headquarters
and in the regional offices; and lAs, which were NGOs, governorates, banks, central
ministries or agencies, or groups of beneficiaries.
2.1 Targeting Studies and Sunrevs
Given the SFD's mandate of poverty alleviation and employment generation, it
is essential for the SFD to fully understand the living conditions of the vulnerable
groups and their needs, in order to effectively implement its projects. To reflect the
evolving nature of the SFD and the current patterns of poverty in Egypt, the IDP
enables a better targeting of SFD interventions by: (i) improving the SFD's targeting
and monitoring system; (ii) strengthening the GOE's capacity to monitor the impact of
macro and sectoral policies on vulnerable groups, and; (iii) in the final analysis,
contributing to the design and implementation of appropriate social programs and
policies aimed at raising the quality of life of the population.
In view of this, the SFD commissioned a number of targeting studies focusing
on the extent of the principal issues that the SFD was committed to addressing -
unemployment and poverty - in order to put in place an operational targeting scheme.
The targeting map developed consisted of a ranking of districts of the different
governorates by a poverty score based on a number of selected indicators of poverty.
For comprehensive coverage, the data from the 1986 census was awarded a central
role in the initial phases of the targeting system.
In order to collect updated, comprehensive data on socio-economic conditions
under ERSAP, the SFD undertook a series of surveys at the national level in
collaboration with CAPMAS and FAFO International. The surveys entitled "Social
and Econormic Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program" (SEISA) consisted of a
four-year program comprising various interventions: (i) Two rounds of a priority
survey (PS), which was a rapid assessment survey to gather information at the
household level. Its objective was to provide rapid estimates of socio-economic
indicators on subjects such as, education, health, nutrition, employment and
39



expenditures; (ii) a community survey (CS) conducted at the same time as the PS and
in the same areas, to provide community level data on the availability, access and
quality of markets and public services and infrastructure, and; (iii) an integrated survey
(IS) which was more detailed than the PS, and included data at the level of individuals,
such as education, employment history, health status, migration, income, as well as at
the level of the household, such as housing, food and non-food expenditures, farming
and non-farmning revenues, savings, transfer and credit.
To date, three surveys have been completed: a first PS, a CS and an IS. The
data gathered is currently being analyzed and will enable the study of the impact of the
macro-economic policies at the household level. The data will also allow the SFD to
fine-ture the SFD's targeting system.
2.2 TheLabor Data Network
At the beginning of the 1990s, the high level of unemployment recorded in
Egypt was a cause of particular concern to the GOE, which emphasized the need to
create productive employment. Several studies highlighted the urgency to develop the
country's human resources base, and to develop timely and reliable labor information.
This was especially important for the private sector, which employed over two-thirds
of the labor force in Egypt.
In cooperation with UNDP and ILO, the SFD contracted a project for the
im.plementation of a national data netvvork on labor, to be hosted and operated Ly thC
Ministry of Manpower. The objectives of the project were to: (i) survey and register
the unemployed and job seekers, specially graduates; (ii) survey and assess the needs
of vocational training centers and on-the-job training schemes; (iii) survey employment
in private sector enterprises, and determine their size and characteristics; (iv) gather
information about employment and market orientations, and; (v) collect data on
chronic diseases, injuries in the work place, labor disputes, labor syndicates and labor
members in company boards. The project is still being implemented within the Ministry
of Manpower and is being updated regularly. Reports on the various activities and
outputs have been developed.
2.3 Conferences and Seminars
The IDP employed a variety of mechanisms to encourage a dialogue with
stakeholders through information-sharing and consultative sessions, workshops,
seminars and conferences. These mechanisms were also aimed at the institutional
enhancement of the SFD technical secretariat and lAs through the funding or
provision of equipment and operational costs.
Throughout its first phase, the IDP hosted, supported, conducted, and took
part in numerous local, regional and international conferences, seminars and
workshops. The objectives of the IDP were to: (i) network and share experiences and
ideas on strategic issues relevant to SFD policies and interventions; (ii) sensitize the
public on SFD goals and activities; and (iii) improve the management capacities of the
SFD and its lAs to allow them to carry out their functions more efficiently.
40



PART IV: PAST EXPERIENCE, LE.SSONS LEARNT
AND FUTURE ACTION (SFD 11)
A. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
In light of the SFD's rapidly expanding operations, and in order to allow the
SFD to achieve its goals and objectives in the most cost-effective and efficient manner,
a careful design of its organizational structure providing the framework for its pattern
of management, was required. The main objectives of the organizational structure are:
(i) improved performance; (ii) accountability for areas of work undertaken by groups
and individua31r members of the organization; (iii) flexibility, in order to respond to
future demands and developments, and to adapt to a changing environment, and; (iv)
coordination between the programs in the different areas of work.
The principal parameters considered in the design of the organizational
structure include: (i) the grouping of activities and responsibilities of the staff, (ii) the
levels of authority (the scalar chain), their span of control, and their relationships
within and beyond the SFD; (iii) minimizing procedural steps without compromising
the objectives of improved targeting, sustainability and decentralization, and; (iv)
promoting a flatter organizational structure by ensuring that the chain of command is
as short as possible. The challenge with regard to (iv) is to ensure that opportunities
for promotion are not potentially reduced, that the development of future managers is
not limited in any mranner, and that the SFD succeeds in decentralizing its operations
without losing control.
One of the main concerns with regard to decentralization is in terms of the
specific delegation to sub-units within the SFD, such that they enjoy an increased
measure of autonomy in decision-taking and operations. A number of factors require
full consideration. Firstly, it is necessary to have young and dynamic members of staff
at the lower organizational levels for monitoring and following up on the projects in
the regional offices. The challenge is to be able to train them and develop their skills,
without seriously interrupting their day-to-day activities. Secondly, decentralization
requires an up-to-date management information system. This means the installation of
computer networks throuighout the offices of the SFD, to allow for continuous
communication, easy access to data, and the rapid transmission of information.
Limited financial resources, technological constraints (such as existing telephone
lines), revised procedures for data collection, and check-and-entry are among the
factors that are currently constraining the attainment of the desired level of a
developed and fully-equipped management information system.
41



B. PROJECT CYCLE, EVALUATION AND IMPACT' ASSESSMENT
L. Improvinr the Proiect Cvcle
A review of past operations has demonstrated that there are two major
weaknesses in the SFD's current project cycles. First is the lack of effective and
accurate information to make and disseminate the correct decision at the correct time,
throughout the project cycle. Second is the oversight of a number of factors during the
preparation and implementation stages of the project, such as: (i) clear and specific
definitions of the project's objectives and their sustainable benefits; (ii) the lack of a
reasonable framework for the country's sectoral policies, and; (iii) insufficient and
effective monitoring during project implementation due to organizaticnal constraints,
such as staffing. These weaknesses have signified that the necessary remedial actions
are often not taken in the optimum time, and that the time deviation from the planned
objectives cannot always be recovered effectively.
Figure IV-1: Modelfor Improving the Project Cycle
The objective of a proposed modified project cycle management is to eliminate
the above-mentioned weaknesses by adopting a method that manages the various
stages of a project, from preparation to implementation and to ex-post evaluation.
This method helps establish the factors that affect a project's success. It covers six
phases, and analyzes the most important elements of each phase, as well as the criteria
for cohesion and sustainability applicable throughout the project cycle. It specifies the
documents (hence, the information) to be produced in each phase, which in turn allows
for timely and effective decision-making.
42



A.. VMUMUuJI
Evaluation is undertaken to affect policy development, to shape the design and
implementation of social interventions, and to improve the management of social
programs and projects. In the end, what counts is the extent to which evaluation leads
to improved policies, programs and practices, and overall human development.
Every evaluation must be tailored to a specific project according to a given
program. The tasks undertaken depend on the stages of activity at which they are
brought in, and the needs and interests of the different stakeholders. Evaluation will
vary if the project is new or is already established and merely needs fine-tuning.
The SFD supports different projects through its different programs. The
projects are in various stages of maturity, and for this reason, require evaluation
through project-specific and modifiable parameters. Successful monitoring and
evaluation in the case of the SFD, will rely on adaptable rather than firm and
prescribed rules and procedures. The SFD's updated Monitoring, Evaluation and
Impact Assessment Manual provides an overview of the relation between evaluation
activities and program planning, development and implementation. It recognizes the
differences in the allocation of funds and the sequence of tasks within the SFD's
respective programs and projects, and takes into account financial and functional
constraints as well as the availability of staff and technology.
3. Imnact Assessment
The SFD is currently developing a standardized scheme of impact assessment
studies to update its capacities, strengthen its decision-making and improve
performance. These studies are being used as one of the requirements for project
appraisal and evaluation. Ideally, impact assessment studies should be conducted in
two stages. The first is carried out in the project planning phase to forecast the
expected outputs. Mitigation measures are proposed to reduce the adverse effects to a
minimum, and different project alternatives are evaluated accordingly. The final
output is an optimum mix of positive impacts, costs and benefits. If properly utilized,
this impact assessment study could be a valuable decision-making tool. It provides a
clear picture of the project's positive and negative impacts, and the trade-off between
its advantages and disadvantages. It serves to ensure, insofar as possible, that
potential problems are foreseen and addressed at the appropriate stage of the project
cycle. The second stage of an impact assessment study is conducted as a post-audit
after project completion. It measures the actual impacts caused by the project and
compares them to those forecasted. It is particularly useful as a guideline for future
impact assessment studies.
Two pilot studies were implemented by the SED, as part of an overall scheme
to set the foundation for impact assessment studies as an integral component of the
project cycle. The first study focused on PWP projects, and was implemented in
Menoufia Govemorate. Menoufla was selected because of the wide diversity of its
project components, which consisted of four sectors: water supply, educational units,
road paving and canal covering. The study team consisted of 13 members conducting
the work over a 30-day period and using six complementary techniques: Basic
techniques, questionnaire techniques, semi-structured interviews, conversation, direct
43'



-- ".w"Wi wvb, %PL#Vs QI^w 11WCLL-. u  4uqU5. 111e secona stuay was conducted m
Assiut Governorate and was designed to evaluate, on a pilot basis, the social impact
of the CDP's interventions. A sample of five projects was selected, covering child and
adult education, health, and income generation. The 10-week study consisted of five
SFD staff and an external consultant. It was based on the Rapid Appraisal Methods
approach, with particular emphasis on the following techniques: focus group
discussions, participant observation (household visits) and informal interviewing.
C. PARTICIPATION
The participatory approach employed by the SFD is based on the recognition
that one of the most important ways of releasing the potential of vulnerable groups is
to create the necessary conditions that will enable them to participate from the project
design stage onwards. Rather than being passive recipients of a process engineered by
others, they are empowered to take part and become active agents in their own
development. Their choices are expanded and they are able to participate in, or
endorse the decision-making that affects their daily lives.
The significance of community participation is highlighted and promoted
operationally throughout the SFD's project cycle. However, the degree to which
community members actually participate in the project design - reflecting priority
needs - to the project appraisal stage needs to be strengthened. In its second phase, the
SFD will place more emphasis on community participation.
. Beneficiary Par*civation
In the case where the beneficiaries do not have the requisite skills to prioritize,
and/or prepare proposals and/or technical designs, the SFD programs, and specifically
the CDP, provide the technical  assistance to help beneficiary groups prepare
proposals and carry out technical design. This empowers them to identify and
prioritize their needs and to develop strategies to meet them.
Many SFD projects are initiated by the beneficiaries in response to their
perceived needs. One of the principal features of the projects carried out by the PWP,
for instance, has been the strengthening of community participation and involvement in
its projects. Voluntary contributions in cash or in kind were exchanged for public
services, creating commitment on the part of the community towards the project. This
largely facilitated project implementation and ensured that these groups would
continue carrying out O&M activities during the course of the project and after its
completion. Nevertheless, additional community involvement may be required at the
early stages of project formulation and design if full commitment is to be gained. This
may prove crucial for the sustainability of PWP projects.
Community participation is an integral part of CDP projects, which became
increasingly developmental rather than relief-oriented over SFD Phase I. Beneficiaries
were requested to participate in project selection and design. Numerous awareness
campaigns initiated by the CDP required the active involvement of the beneficiaries,
such as the Prevention of Diarrhea in Qena Project or the Basic Education Project.
Their enthusiasm and full participation was exemplary.
44



2. Gender Partcipation
Women are increasingly recognized as an economic force in themselves, as
powerful agents of change, and as a resource without which progress in development
would be limited. It is in this view that the SFD established its Gender Unit in 1996.
The independent Unit attempts to encompass gender issues into the activities of the
SFD's five programs. Women are provided with the opportunity to participate in and
benefit from all SFD development interventions in order to achieve their full potential.
These activities include training, gender analysis, operational research, appraisal
monitoring and evaluation, and advocacy ("gender mainstreaming").
Over 500/o of CDP projects have been aimed at raising women's productivity
and their access to basic health and education services. Through a participatory
approach and the provision of social and productive services, these projects have
significantly empowered women in their respective communities and raised their social
and economic status. Other SFD programs have also attempted to contribute to these
efforts. In PWP projects, women take an important role in project administration and
management through their participation as support staff, and in some cases, as
engineers and administrative officers. In EDP projects, women account for 26% of the
Program's loanees, while they make up to 20% of the total PE workers addressed by
the ERP getting early retirement. Reinforcing women's level of participation in the
SFD's activities is one of the chief priorities of Phase II, which can be better achieved
through NGOs specially those headed by women or specialized in women's affairs.
3. Reeional Participation and Decentralization
The decentralization of SFD operations through its regional offices proved to
be crucial and beneficial, especially in facilitating the implementation of a participatory
approach throughout the project cycle by enabling close community consultation. It
has also promoted collaborative decision-making between the SFD and community
organizations and NGOs involved in joint development activities.
The SFD's regional offices have proven successful in encouraging community
involvement. They have contributed in channeling governorates' needs and demands
to the SFD headquarters in Cairo, and have advocated regional participation in the
decision-making process. They have also promoted close working relations with the
beneficiaries, enhancing the SFD's targeting effectiveness. At the same time, these
regional offices helped strengthen relations between the governorates and the SFD.
The positive outcomes of the SFD's decentralization policy will result in its
reinforcement during Phase II. More responsibilities will be conferred to the regional
units. This step may prove crucial to the SFD's success as it can come as a response to
staff constraints. The regional offices can extend their respective areas of work by
hiring extension workers who are in closer contact with the community and who are
able to address day-to-day issues, allowing the SFD staff to focus on more strategic
questions. The regional offices may prove beneficial in the monitoring and follow up
of projects and loan reimbursements with banks, to help prevent default practices in
time.
45



V. JYJ L WLJIJWWfl
NGOs have an important role to play in reconciling the somehow contradictory
trends towards smaller government and rationalized social spending, on the one hand,
and increasing demands for sustainable development, on the other. They contribute to:
(i) mobilizing and enhancing the broad popular participation that sustainable
development demands; (ii) advocating, monitoring and evaluating people-driven
policies; (iii) increasing the legitimacy of development activities through greater
popular engagement, and; (iv) assisting in policy implementation and improving
effectiveness through better access to local information and experience. In Egypt,
there are more than 15,000 NGOs registered with the Ministry of Social Affairs that
provide social services in the fields of child and famnily care, family planning, social
welfare, culture, science, literary activities, management and community development.
In addition to the SFD's regional offices, decentralization and regional
participation are also implemented through a close relationship with regional and local
NGOs. NGOs are one of the main channels through which the SFD's services are
provided to the lowest income groups. The interaction between these groups and
NGOs highlights important grassroots issues and priorities, and helps shape social
policies through an increasingly participatory approach. Through better access to
information, networking and coalitions, NGOs allow for a more efficient allocation of
scarce resources.
Given the important role delegated to NGOs, the SFD has allocated its
resources for assessing and strengthening their capacities, in terms of beneficiary
representation and development effectiveness. NGOs are evaluated during a project's
appraisal, on the basis of criteria which indicate where training might be required.
NGO capacity building is designed to: enhance the sustainability of SFD-funded
projects; encourage better project proposals and project designs; improve project
monitoring, reporting and self-evaluation; provide an outreach to the target groups;
help to better identify local problems and needs in a participatory process; help to
better mobilize resources from within and outside the community; enhance NGOs'
capacity in awareness raising and community promotion, and; increase understanding
of, collaboration with and support for NGOs from community, local and national
governments, the private sector, the donors and international NGOs, and; enhance
NGOs' ability to specify their role and purpose. Phase II will therefore witness more
collaboration with NGOs, specially through their umbrella organizations such as the
National Commission for NGOs for Population and Development (NCPD).
S. SFD Programs and NGO Capacity Building
The Public Works Program: The PWP commissions local private consulting
offices to perform the technical feasibility, social impact, economic rate of return and
environmental impact assessment studies for its projects, prior to their implementation.
The consulting office presents a report that includes a close examination of the local
NGOs that could participate in project activities like needs assessment, project
fornulation and implementation. The report also outlines the weak areas that need
strengthening in each NGO. Funds and efforts are then channeled to supplement these
areas in order to bring targeted NGOs up to a level that allows them to participate
effectively in the project.
46



The PWP believed that the delivery of its services could only be successful by
creating a dialogue between local governments and NGOs. To do so, the Program
provided local government officials with the necessary technical and administrative
training, and fortified its Project Implementation Units (PIU) with the required
experienced professionals to be in charge of the project's daily managerial activities.
The PIU acted as a link between the local governments and NGOs. It transferred the
necessary know-how and helped build up the capabilities of their targeted
beneficiaries. A segment of the PWP project fund was dedicated to institutional
support in order to finance such activities. During project implementation, PTU and
well-trained local officials were more able and better equipped to work in partnership
with local NGOs.
The PWP fostered NGOs and encouraged the establishment of new ones by
commissioning the implementation of its projects only to private sector contractors
and local NGOs. NGOs that worked as contractors on PWP projects benefit from the
experience and profits gained to better equip their organizations. The indirect
institutional support provided to NGOs through the implementation of PWP projects
is considered, in many cases, the source of income necessary to allow them to expand
their activities.
The Community Development Program: The CDP was conceived to help
inprove the quality of services at the community level in low income areas, in
partnership with NGOs and the beneficiary community. The Program's relation with
NGOs is thus crucial to the functioning of CDP projects. A portion ranging from 5%
to 10% of the allocated budget to each project, was directed towards institutional
capacity building. A total of 28% of CDP projects received funds for capacity
building. Capacity building support amounted to nearly half the total contracted
amount for these projects.
Box IV-: NGO Caacitv Bulidina by the CDP
NGO capacity building focuses on such areas as training board members and managers in basic
organizational skills, such as:
* Local fund raising and mobilizing organizational resources
* Conducting effective meetings and group decision-making
* Community needs assessment and program feasibility studies
. Financial management and program accounting
* Program outreach and evaluaffon
* CDA management needs, personnel supervision and training
* Effectve community development approaches and local problems
. Recruiting and motivating CDA members and program volunteers
The Enterprise Development Program: NGO capacity building was given
special attention by the EDP. Grants were provided to NGOs for training, technical
assistance and institutional capacity building, to improve NGOs' performance in
relation to financial institutions. By the end of Phase I, 50% of EDP projects received
NGO capacity-building grants.
The Employment and Retraining Program: During Phase 1, 17%  of ERP
projects were devoted to NGOs' capacity building. The ERP contributed to upgrading
47



me insututontuI ti4pw4pLy uL LI4Ulii; VtIILVl11 Lit L;y Pt, 411U LVUVrL1wU LIir MW4UCU LI 4IUII;
costs. Institutional capacity building took the form of equipment related to and needed
for the implementation of particular projects. The ERP furnished NGOs with the
necessary technical and financial assistance to enable them to provide group and
individual counseling to PE workers and unemployed graduates. The Program also
assisted NGOs in marketing their products through their participation in local and
international exhibitions funded by the SFD.
The Task Ahead: The SFD has allocated an overall amount of LE 46.23
million to NGO capacity building. Constraints to the full participation of NGOs in
SFD operations are likely to persist, due to the small size and lack of experience of the
majority of them as well as the lack of a solid financial basis. During Phase IL greater
emphasis will be awarded to the self-sustainability of NGOs. Structural and
organizational self-sustainability will include training board members and managers on
basic organizational skills, and financial self-sustainability will comprise the
development of cost recovery schemes. Special attention will also be given to the role
of NGOs in integrating within local communities, and the adoption of a more
participatory approach in their day-to-day operations and decision-making.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
1. Sustainabilitv of the SFD
The issue of sustainability has been discussed at various levels, since it refers to
the sustainability of the SFD as a whole, as well as to the individual programs. The
SFD experience as an integral part of the tools (poverty alleviation, services provider
and productive employment generation) to achieve econornic reform and structural
adjustment, has been successful. It has demonstrated how to create positive working
relations between central, regional and local authorities, and the community at large.
Ministries such as Education, Health, Population, and Public Works have requested
the active involvement of the SFD in their programs.
That the Egyptian Government and international donors have recommitted and
increased their contributions to Phase II, is evidence of their appreciation of the SFD's
development efforts and their desire to ensure its longevity.
2.. Sustainabilitv of SFD Prowrams
The Public Works Program: The PWP project's long life span versus
implementation time, and its capital cost versus O&M costs are factors that lend
themselves to the project's sustainability. The capital investment of grant funds by the
PWP and their expenditure in a relatively short period of time to implement public
works projects (ranging from eighteen months to three years), requires beneficiaries
and SAs to raise modest sums of money to operate and maintain such projects after
implementation. This O&M money is often collected by local governments in return
for services rendered to the community. By securing this cost recovery scheme based
on an agreement between the PWP and SAs, as a source for financing O&M activities,
the PWP ensures the sustainability of its projects and ensures the supply of services for
the extended life span of its projects.
48



For new projects, the PWP plans to allocate funds specifically to maintenance
activities. Such funds will be directed towards the initiation of a workable system that
could later rely on local contributions to ensure its continuance. The Program includes
a clause in its new project contracts that obligates governorates to allocate funds to
maintenance programs, according to a defined scheme devised by the PWP and jointly
funded by the SFD. In addition to the agreed upon local contribution, SAs pay, when
signing the project contract, a 10% lump sum of the project value, for O&M. This
amount, along with another 10% funded by the SFD, will be deposited in a bank
account to accrue interest. Governorates will start utilizing these funds after one year
of project completion to finance O&M activities.
The institution of a successful maintenance system in rural Egypt relies on an
understanding of the social behavior and needs of the community. The participation of
local communities in these efforts is considered the primary factor for its sustainability.
The integration of projects in the same geographical area is expected to complement
the basic nature of PWP endeavors. The PWP is intending to cooperate more closely
with the CDP, especially in the early stages of project submittal and formulation. The
replication of the successful River Nile Banks Protection Project, on a smaller scale,
will be necessary.
The Community Development Program: The CDP is currently using
sustainability as one of the major criteria for project approval. SAs are requested to
incorporate mechanisms for cost recovery, and O&M in project proposals. The
Program evaluates the institutional capacity of the SA and the feasibility of the project
proposal to ensure adequate O&M, particularly after CDP finance has ended. Projects
implemented by the public sector are ensured a budget for O&M since costs for such
activities are allocated within each line ministry. Projects that are implemented by the
community include mechanisms to regain sufficient funds through fees and in-kind
contributions to cover O&M costs.
The Enteqrprse Development Program: In its initial design, the EDP was
intended to be a rapid disbursement and efficient job creation mechanism. As the
Program matured, a more refined perspective was necessary, and the issue of
sustainability began to be increasingly addressed. Recurrent requirements included the
following factors: (i) That the SFD's on-lending to banks carry an interest rate
sufficient to maintain the value of SFD funds in real terms; (ii) that the cost of the
service provided by the SFD staff was recovered in the long term; (iii) that the banks
had a sufficient spread to cover their costs, including an allowance for default, and;
(iv) that the EDP was functioning as a self-standing cornmercial program, while
maintaining its social objectives.
The transformation of the EDP into a sustainable apex institution is expected
to be competed within a period of four years. Sustainability refers to independence
from donor grants, soft loans or other forms of subsidies for small enterprise
development; and the ability to cover the operational costs of credit and business
service delivery. It is achieved by charging fair interest rates, fees and commissions on
intermediaries or beneficiaries for technical assistance to develop and promote
entrepreneurship. The independent EDP organization - to be renamed the Small
Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO) - will be managed as if private, with
49



CUIsY OUIFIL&M  UWAIr, A%ALIV"L@% IL 1LO 016@ 4IIU  "all"100 %Abvv%vFAWA%IA FI5s"A'10 L&   V9
rnission will be to help new viable small enterprises get started and existing enterprises
grow through the efficient and cost-effective delivery - through intermediaries - of a
package of business services and medium and long term credit to the entrepreneurs.
By fulfilling this mission, SEDO is expected an average of 100,000 jobs annually.
The Employment and Retraining Program: The ERP's objectives are to
develop, coordinate and finance different aspects of human resources development,
namely labor adjustment services, and the strengthening and delivery of vocational
training programs. In order to ensure the sustainability of these initiatives, the ERP
will begin working in close collaboration with the GOE and the donor countries in
view of developing the Program into a stand-alone mechanism for the advancement
and control of human resources development systems in Egypt.
50



r/AriI r; JIl)il /LAA1V1VLA
Tables
V-1  Donor Commitments
V-2   Donor Funds Allocated to SFD Programs
V-3   Donor Funds Allocated to Channels
V-4   Progress of Projects Contracted by SFD Programs
V-5   Disbursements By SFD Programs to Sponsoring Agencies
V-6   PWP Outputs Achieved During Phase I
V-7   PWP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
V-8   PWP Project Information
V-9   CDP Outputs Achieved During SFD Phase I
V-10  CDP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
V-11  CDP Project Information
V-12  EDP Outputs Achieved During SED Phase I
V-13  EDP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
V-14  EDP Project Information
V-15  ERP Outputs Achieved During SFD Phase I
V-16  ERP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
V-17  ERP Project Information
V-18  IDP Projects and Amount Contracted
V-19  IDP Project Information
V-20  Disbursements and Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD in Upper Egypt
Govemorates
V-21  Disbursements and Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD in Cairo and
Lower Egypt Governorates
V-22  Disbursements and Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD in Border
Governorates
V-23 Total Disbursements and Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD in All
Governorates
Fi,ures
V-l   SFD Organizational Chart
V-2   Public Works Program Project Cycle
V-3   Public Works Program Project Management
V4   Public Works Program Project Monitoring System
V-5   Community Development Program Project Cycle
V-6   Community Development Program Project Management
V-7   Employment and Retraining Program Project Cycle
.Vote: The figures provided in the Statistical Annex are an update of previous statistics and reports. and reflect actual progress
ofSFDprogramsfor the reportingpenodofPhase 1.
51



Table V-1: Donor Commitments, USS '000,000
Status up to 31/12/96
Donor                  1 1993 1  %   1  1994  1  %   1 1995 1  %   I 1996  1   %J
bu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development  50.00   8.20   49.97    7.70   49.97    7.40    49.97     6.70
Arab Fund for Social & Economic Development  50.00   8.20   46.25   7.10   46.36   6.90    46.36       6.20
Austria                                       5.00   0.80    5.00   0.80    5.00   0.70       5.00     0.70
Canada                                        3.00    0.50    2.42   0.40    2.49    0.40     2.49     0.30
China                                         0.00   0.00    8.00    1.20    8.00    1.20    10.00     1.30
Denmark                                       1.50   0.20     1.65   0.20    1.71   0.20      1.71     0.20
Egypt                                        61.40   10.00    59.76   9.20    59.75   8.90    59.75    7.90
European Union                              153.00  25.00   149.35  23.00   157.52   23.40   229.42    30.80
France                                       10.00    1.60   10.89    1.70   27.95   4.20    11.86     1.60
Germany                                      30.00   4.90    58.32   9.00   53.71    8.00    69.80     9.40
Holland                                       8.50    1.40    9.26    1.40    9.77   1.40     9.77     1.30
Ireland                                       3.20   0.50    3.12   0.50    3.12   0.50       3.12     0.40
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development    50.00   0.30   46.25   7.10   46.41    6.90    46.41      6.20
Norway                                        2.00    1.60    2.07   0.30    2.07   0.30      2.07     0.301
Sweden                                       10.00   4.90    8.16    1.30    8.44    1.30     8.44     1.10
Switzerland                                  30.00   0.90    30.00   4.60    30.00   4.50    30.00     4.00
United Nations Development Programme          5.50  22.80     5.50   0.80     5.50   0.80     5.50     0.70
World Bank/IDA                              140.00  100.00   154.35   23.70   154.73   23.00   154.73    20.70
Total                  1 613.101 100.001  650.321 100.001  672.501 100.001  746.401  100.00]



Table V-2: Donor Funds Allocated to SFD Programs* ('000,000)
Programs                          LE Amount            %
1993                           ___     _
Public Works                        376.5     112.8       18
Community Development               173.6      52.0        8
Enterpise Development               895.8     268.4       44
Employment & Retraining             300.4      90.0       1 5
Institutional Development           108.1      32.4        5
Public Transportation                56.7      17.0        3
Unallocated Funds                   135.2      40.5        7
Total                             2,046.3     613.1      100
1994___                                                   _
Public Works                        486.8     143.6       22
Community Development               922.9      74.5       11
Enterprise Development              253.3     272.3       42
Employment & Retraining             306.9      90.6       14
Institutional Development            99.6      29.4        5
Unallocated Funds                   134.2      39.6        6
Total                             2,203.7     650.0      100
1995                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Public Works                        547.4     163.9       24
Community Development               303.9      91.0       14
EnterpDrise Development           1,154.6     345.7       51
Employment & Retraining             137.3      41.1        6
Institutional Development           84.8       25.4        4
Unallocated Funds                    17.7       5.3        1
Total                             2,245.7     672.4      100
Public Works                        585.2     172.9       23
Community Development               293.6      86.8       12
Enterprise Development            1,316.8     389.1       52
Employment & Retraining             181.5_   53.6          7
Institutional Development           129.8      38.3        5
Unallocated Funds                    19.1       5.6        1
Total                             2,526.0     746.3      100
This is a cumulative schedule



Table V-3: Donor Funds Allocated to Channels (LE '000,000)
Channels                               Total
Govemorates   Ministries  I NGOs A Banks       ERP      F  IDP             l
t993                   iiiii
LE        |338.1                  72.4    1      408.4    1      9.4T  1. 8       840.1|
Percentage L        4007           9.0% 49_0                     1.0|     1___ ____
1994    __28.0                                           l_l
LE                 788.4         351.1           757.3         306.9            2,203.7
Percentage          36.0          16.0            34.0          14.0              100.0
1995
LE                 645.3         248.8         1,215.1         136.9            2,246.1
Percentage          29.0          11.0            54.0           6.0              100.0
1996       _                                           ____X
LE                 684.4         237.8         1,423.1         180.71           2,526.0
Percentage          27.0          10.0            56.0           7.01             100.0



Table V-4: Progress of Projects Contracted By SFD Programs*
[       Programs| No. of Projects |_Amount(LE '000)
11993---_
Public Works Program             19                  214,175
Community Development            48                  105,471
Enterprise Development           26                  488,228
Employment & Retraining          14                   22,079
Institutional Development        23                   10,199
Total                            130                 840,152
1994                                  _
Public Works Program             40                  431,474
Community Development            76                  185,259
Enterprise Development           50                  745,441
Employment & Retraining          29                   29,371
Institutional Development        35                   20,998
Total                           230                 1,412,543
1995
Public Works Program             59                  556,874
Community Development            112                 235,210
Enterprise Development           90                 1,146,547
Employment & Retraining          32                   29,556
Institutional Development        46                   37,108
Total                           339                 2,005,295
1995
Public Works Program             68                  623,014
Community Development            182                 336,670
Enterprise Development          120                 1,384,524
Employment & Retraining          52                  162,799
Institutional Development        48                  151,491
Total                           470                 2,658,499
Ts is a cumulave schedule



Table V-5: Disbursements By SFD Programs to Sponsoring Agencies (LE '000)
Programs                  f 1993     1994      f 1995    11996   l
Public Works Program                    47,016    169,969    342,057    487,257
Community Development                   57,940     98,410    151,975    244,606
Enterprise Development                 203,245    510,422    846,936  1,124,755
Employment & Retraining                  6,091     15,945     19,002    123,096
Institutional Development                4,034     17,510     33,028    131,676
Total                                  318,326    812,256  1,392,998  2,111,390



Table V-6: P WP Outputs Achieved During SFD Phase I
Indicators                  ( 1993  1 1994  I  1995  | 1996  [ Total
1. Environmentalinfrastructure
Wastewater networks (kilometers)                      0     6.345    11.668    15.987       34
Wastewater treatment plants (# of subprojects)        0         0         2         2        4
Wastewater pump stations (# of subprojects)           0         1         1         2        4
Canal covering (kilometers)                           4    14.117    16.067    25.816       60
Canal protection (kilometers)                    27.157    55.398    92.152    59.293      234
Canal maintenance (kilometers)                        0         0       600     2,832     3,432
Other projects (# of subprojects)'                   38        98        11         0      147
2. Potable Water
Networks (kilometers)                                84       557       833     1,296     2,770
Elevated and ground tanks (units)                     0         8        44        98       150
Artesian wells (units)                                2        48        64        72       186
Other projects (# of subprojects)2                    2        21        95         0       118
3. Rural Roads
Road construction (kilometers)                       15       136       266       587     1,004
Road improvement (kilometers)                         5        20         0        55        80
4. Bullding Refurbishment                     _ __                  _____
Clinics (units)                                      12        38        74       147       271
Youth centers (units)                                 1        76        91       116       284
Schools (units)                                      27       200       146        57       430
Social centers (units)                               11         6        14         8        39
Other projects (# of subprojects)3                    1        26        32        68       127
1/ Filling ponds and inrgatlon structure mnalntenance
21 Pump rooms, water stions fences, water Intake upgradng and tank refurtishment
3/ Veterinay units, nursery and public servie buildings



Table V- 7; PWP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
Indicators                                    1993      1994      1995     1996      Total
Number of contracted projects                      15       27        17        9        68
Contracted amount (grants) LE '000            179,535   171,979   208,780    62,720   623,014
Disbursed amount (grants) LE '000              47,016   122,953   171,339   145,949   487,257
Planned temporary job creation (maniproject)    3,200     8,001    11,201    9,601    32,003
Planned permanent job creation                    381      953     1,335     1,144     3,813
Planned beneficiaries '000                      2,521    6,302     8,822     7,561    25,206
Actual temporary job creation (man/project)     2,017     5,276    8,885     7,961    24,139
Actual permanent job creation                     340      891      1,247    1,060     3,538
Actual beneficiaries'000                        1,388     3,630    5,080     4,108    14,206



'able V-8: PWP Project Information
Status up to 31/12/96
Serial                  Project Title                 Govemorate  Stalting Completion  Contracted  Disbursed            Job             Actual
No.                                                                 Date      Date      Amount    Amount          Opportunities      Beneffcarfe
|  LE'V00     LE^g00O    Permarint                lowmoar  00
001  Dakahlia Village Services Upgrading            Dakahliya          593__      1/95      6,950       6,755         35         304         2
002  Dakahlia Irrigation Project                    Dakahliya         5t95        1/95      81'0        8,064         40         341         2
003  River Nile Banks Protection                    6 Govemorates      6/92       6/95     65,630      65,548        375       2,200         5
004  Fayoum Roads Improvement                       Fayoum             6/93       5/96      8,800       8,700         50         297         1'
005  Fayoum Village Reconstruction                  Fayoum             6/93       5/95      6,065       6,045         38         338         2
006  Qena Labor Intensive Public Works              Qena               4/93       3/95      8,940       8,858         50         456         1:
007  Menoufia Roads & Irrigation                    Menoufia           7/93       6/95      7,450       7,300         43         383          1
008  Menoufia Water & Public Building               Menoufia           7/93       6/95      8,350       8,351         48         430          1
009  Ismailia Rural Development                    Ismailia            7193      12194      8,450       8,351         47         423         2
010  Environmental Improvement in Old Cairo District  Cairo            3/95       2/97      8,800       8,044         66         342         2
011  Gharbiya Paving Rural Roads                    Gharbiya           9/93       8/95      9,000       8,815         55         472          2
012  Beni Suef Rural Development                    Beni Suet          7/93       3/95      8.900       8,850         48         506          1
013  Sharkiya Rural Development - Northern Region   Sharkiya           4/94       9/96      8900        7,638         50         307          2
014  Assiut Potable Water & Youth Centers           Assiut             3/97       2/99       8,250          0          0           0          3
015  Minia Infrastructure Integrated Development    Minia             10/96       9/98       8,100      1,950          0         100          3
016  Aswan Village Development                      Aswan              8/94       7/96       8,250      8,100         58         432          2
017  Assiut Village Development                     Assiut             3/94       8/95       8,940      8,895         50         463          2
018  Manual Channel Maintenance - Upper Egypt       3 Govemorates     10/94       3/97       9,970      7,084        235        1,191         4
019  Minia Potable Water Improvement                Minia              8/94       7/96       8,300      8,260         49         402          2
020  Beheir= Rural Roads                            Beheira            7/94       6/96       8,850      8.610         50         421          2
021  Kafr El Sheikh Village Services Upgrading      Kafr El Sheikh     6/94       5/96       8,400      8.300         46         387          2
022  Qaliubiya Water Networks                       Qaiubiya           1195      12196       8,550      7,930         51         353          2
023  Giza Covering Water Channels                   Giza              10/94       3/96       4,425      4,375         24         298          2
024  Damietta Village Development                   Damietta           9/95       8/97       8,100      6,889         50         213          2
025  Environmental Improvement in Mahmaudla Canal   AleKandria         2/96       1/98       8,350      1.965         50         100          2
026  Beni Suef Infrastuotre Development             Beni Suef         10/96       6/98       8,150        500          0          30          2
027  Suez infrastucture Improvement                 Suez              10/95       9/97       7,400      3,980         45         199          2
028  Giza Environmental Improvement                 Giza               3/97      12/98       8,550          0          0           0          1
029  Giza Potable Water Improvement                 Giza              10/96       9/98       7,650        210          0          20          3
030  Gharbiya Village Services Upgrading            Gharbiya           9/93       8/95       7,500      7,344         44         361          2
031  Local Roads Paving in Sohag                    Sohag             12/93      11/95       9.000      8,965         55         527          2
032  Sohag Potable Water Improvement                Sohag             12)93      11t95       9,000      8,980         54         495          2
033  Public Premises in Sohag                       Sohag             12t93      11/95       7,350       7,285        45         416          2



Serial                  Project Title                 Governorate  Starting Completion  Contracted  Disbursed          Job             Actual
No. I                                                               Date      Date      Amount    Amount          Opportunities     Beneficiarle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LE '000                     LE '000    Permanent I Temporary    loop
034  Kafr El Sheikh Rural Roads Paving             Kafr El Sheikh     6/94       5/96      8,400       8.300         48        435          2
035  River Nile Banks Protection Phase II          7 Govemorates      1/95      12/97     80,000      56,325        378       1,470         4
036  Sharkiya Rural Development - Central Region   Sharkiya          10/94       9/96      8,760       7,782         52        326          2
037  Aswan Potable Water Improvement               Aswan              8/94       7/96      8,750       8,580         52        375          2
038  Minia Rural Roads                             Minia              8/94       7/96      6,500       6,460         40        323          2
039  Matrouh Infrastructure Improvement            Matrouh           12/94      11/96      4,200       4,120         25        204          1
040  Minia Public Buildings                        Minia              8/94       7/96      3,050       3,025         1 8       222          2
041  Beheira Potable Water Networks                Beheira            7/94       6/96      5,450       5,410         33        284          2
042  Matariya Integrated Development               Dakahliya         12/94       7/96      4,184       4,103         25        290          1
043  Water and Sanitation in Qena Villages         Qena               5/95       4/96        630        613           5        104
044  Qaliubiya Village Services Upgrading          Qaliubiya          1/95      12/96      5,450       4,925         34        223          2
045  Assiut Potable Water Improvement              Assiut            10/94       9/96      8.400       8,299         42        339          2
046  Sharkiya Rural Development - Southem Region   Sharkiya          10/94       9/96      8,520       7,581         50        325          3
047  Beni Suef Water & Environmental Improvement   Beni Suef         11/94      10/96      8,550       8,488         46        489          3
048  Manual Channel Maintenance - Lower Egypt      3 Govemorates     10/94       3/97      9,880       7,150        228       1,153         4
049  New Valley Services Upgrading & Env. Improvement  New Valley    12/94      11/96      3,300       3,272         19        166          1
050  North Sinai Services Upgrading & Development  North Sinai       12/94      11/96      3,960       3,900         24        200          ..
051  Qena Water Improvement                        Qena               5/95       4/97      7,600       6,311         43        297          2
052  Qena Roads Improvement                        Qena               5/95       4/97      7,900       6,455         45        210          2
053  Halayeb Development                           Red Sea            8/95       7/97      1.090        600           6         24
054  Gharbiya Roads Improvement                    Gharbiya           7/95       6/97      9,000       8,795         50        363          2
055  Menoufia Village Services Upgrading           Menoufia           7/95       6/97      8,700       8.060         50        363          2
056  Damietta Canal Covering                       Damietta           9/95       2/97      5,400       4.650         30        210          1
057  Sohag Water Supply Subproject                 Sohag             10/95       3/96        500        470           3         39
058  Sohag Integrated Development                  Sohag              3/97       2199      7,950          0           0          0          2
060  Kafr El Sheikh Infrastructure Development     Kafr El Sheikh     3/97       2/99      8,000          0           0          0          3
061  Fayoum Village Upgrading & Development        Fayoum             9/95       8/97      8,900       6,420         55        188          1
062  Floods - Assiut                               Assiut             4/95      12/96      6,100       5,497         30        600
063  Aswan Rural Roads Improvement                 Aswan              1/96       6/98      8,850       1,400         50         13          1
064  Dakahliya Rural Development                   Dakahliya         11/95      10/97      9,900       6,150         50        344          2
065  Floods - Qena                                 Qena               4/95       9/97      8,400       6,665         31        627
066  Floods - Sohag                                Sohag              4/95      12/96      5,200       5,170         30        673    _
067  Flood Passages Development                    2 Govemorates     11/95       6/98      8,000         140         50          8
068  Services Development in Red Sea               Red Sea           10/96       9/98      4,900        830          30         15          1
069  Watr Networks in Qena                         Qena               9/96      12/97      1,170        370          15         30
Total                                                       623,014 1  487,257      3,538      24,139      14,2(



Table V-9: CDP Outputs Achieved During SFD Phase I
Indicators                            1993              1994               1995              1996          Total
Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned  Actual (Actua,
1. Health Services                                     ;                                                              .
Number of health clinics equipped'                        17       17      169        11       14       18      435       17       6
Number of awareness campaigns2                           485      127    4,453      209        16      233    9,845       14    5S
Number of health personnel trained3                      548       28      945        28        6      764      751        0      82
2. Education and Training                                        .
Number of classrooms established4                          0        0      150         7      150      180    1,417    1,383    1,57
Number of illiteracy classes established               6,730    8,740    8,769   10,488    5,723    8,041    9,691    7,691   34,96
Number of individuals trained to teach literacy classes  6,690    8,740    9,473   10,488    5,452    8,041    9,717    7,691   34,96
Number of beneficiaries receiving vocational training   8,886     329   18,190    2,013       200    6,027   73,852    2,326   10,69
Number of training workshops equipped                    153        12       32        9        0        7       15         5       3
3. Micro-credit
Number of loanees                                               24,626             1,472             2,153              8,711   36,96
Number of loans                                                 24,594             1,488             2,124   __         8,705   36,91
Average loan size                                                                                                                123
4. Support to Youth & Community Centers                                            _
Community centers equipped                                 1         8        4        6        6        2                  4       2
Youth centers equipped                                              20                40       14       31         2       21      11
6. Environment_                                                _
Number of environmental projects5                         14        14      49        49        0        0        2         2       6
1/ Number of health clinics includes clinics totally orparn'ally equlpped
2'Numbarof awareness campaigns includes health, social and environmental awareness
3/ Numberof health personneltrainedincludes physicians, nurses anodextension worers
4VFor so7e classes, the CDP provides fumitures and refurbishment. and for others, it only provides fumiture
5/ ncludes potable water, latnes, garbage collection, drinage, backfMling, pest sprayingand tre planting



Table V-10: CDP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
Indicators                             1993        1994        1995        1996       Total
Number of contracted projects               48          28           33         73         182
Contracted amounts                      105,471     79,788       40,800    110,612    336,671
Loans     -                                                                         74,185
Grants                                                                             262,486
Disbursed amounts                        57,940     40,470       53,565      92,654    244,629
Loans                                                                                2,605
Grants                                                                             242,024
Planned job creation                                                                   121,309
Permanent                            72,556      3,369          704       1,448     78,077
Temporary                            17,653     11,886         7,131      6,562     43,232
Actual job creation                                                                    124,382
Permanent                                 _                                         76,422
Temporary                                                                           47,960
Planned beneficiaries                 2,364,236     84,521      337,138    584,251   3,370,146
Actual beneficiaries                                                                  1,768,910



Table V I1I: CDP Pro fret InformAtion
Status up to 31112/96
Sert                     Profect Tild                     Govrnorate        SAs      Starting   Completion      ContractedAmount          Disbursed Amount               Actual Job Opp           Actual
001   Productive Families                 -AU Wvemorates Ministry of                    5b.06 Cn                                              n          46,170.000       68,410
Social Affails
002  Illiteracy Project                                Menoufla,       GALAE          10/1/92                               20,000,000                   20.000,0x                      6,660     211Jt
Sharkiya,
Beheira, Minia,
Sohag, Aswan,
Luxor, New
V alley                     I__  _ _    _ _ _ _ _    _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _ _
003  River Nile Community Component                    Beni Suef       Egyptian Red     7/1/93       711/96                  9,000,000                    8.897,000          800          700        4,
Creswent
society
004  Establishment of Medical Support Unit in Fakous   Sharkiya        Medical        10/30/92      9/15/93                   1,488.000                   1,488.000          100                     2,
Association in
Faqous
005  Youth Employment & Community Participation in     Sharkiya        CDA In         12/16/92                  126,215        20,0-00      200,000         126,215           86           63
Bassaissa                                                        Bassaissa
006  Ceramic Initiation Center Qutab (Fayoum)          Fayoum          CDA in utah    1/23/93                                   91,500                       91,500          200 
007  Utilization of Empty Plots in El Sahel Distnct    Cairo           Public          1/16/93                                 143,000                      143,000           64          350
Services
Association in
North Cairo
Disrict
008  Gamalia Integrated Women's Development            Cairo           Womenes          27192        2f7/95                    102,420                       34,140            0            0
Revisal
Association in
_amalia
009  Handicapped Child Association                     Assiut          Hdicapped       2/17/93      1/17/95                   1,217,356                    1.217.356           0                    13,i
Child
_Association
011  Rural Dev. Center for Communication Support       Ismaitia        Dev. Support     4t4t93                                  181,120                     178,80              0                     3,
Center for
Communic.
012  Community Dev. Association in Abou Swer           Ismailia        CDA in Abou     4/10193      4t10195     149,00           89,040      149,000         89,040             0           40        1,'
013  Women & Child Protection in Alexandria            Axandria         ChNd           4/11/93      4/11/94                     703,790                     688.420           100
t                                                 _               Protecton                                                                                                               _
014  Innovative Training Programs for Women in Alexandria Alexandria   Egyptian        4/11/93      1/11/M                      191,780                     157,000           300
Associtin
for Unversity
Graduates
015  Social & Economic tev. of Employees' Families in  Giza            Associatin      5Y1/93       6/19/05                    323,8i0                      233,000            15            0
CID Co.                                                          for Social
Services for
CIDCo.
Employes
_~~                               ~               -             n.  _              ,_  C             -.-           -_ 



Serial                  Projeci Title                   Govemorate | SAs           st-ne   Completion        ContractedAmount        Disbursed Amount               Actual Job Opp         Actual
No. I                                                I                             Date        DLte         nts            Loa                     Gmans   I  h  Permanent   T ernporary  Bendf
01   Training Center 8 Pubic Clinic El Shouhadaa     Ismailia       Social          4118093     4/18/95                    76,700                      76,700           1:                    5,
Improvement
Association In
El Shouhadas
District
(Ismailia)
017  Women & Child Education & Training              Damietta       Young           3110193                               199,500
Muslims
Associ atin
018  Integrated Medical Care Services Project (IMCS)                                                                     8,036,000                   3,480.000       1.043           0
019  Enhancing Services of Charitable Association in  Cairo         Chartable      11/26/93     6/15/96                   230,845                     211.742           15           0t
Gamalia                                                        Association
Barkouk &
_ _ _ _ _ _   Oaspoty   _ _   _      _   _ __                    _   _
020  Rural Women Integrated Development Unit         Minia, Assiut.   Upper Egypt   1/19195                 840.000       628.161      560,000        399,025          921           1        1
Sohag, Luxor   Associaton
023  Development of Digestive System Medical Services    Giza       Ministry of      2/11/96     2/1/99                  7,405.000                   3,846,373                     388
Health &
Population
035  Training Center for Tally Production in Assiut  Assiut         Sheik BOkhd     6109         3/11/95                   144,070                     144,070         100           0
Associabton
for
Community
Dev.
038  Support o a Public Clinic                       Menoutia       COA in         10/20/93     9122194                    64,050                      64,013            0           0
Kowesna
041  Water Supply System                             Beni Suef (ICA) Media Tech.   9/14/93                                168.000                     168,000            0           0        2,
Water
Consumption
042  Multi-Purpose Participatory Dev. Project (Assiut)  Assiut      Association of   15/94      1/15/98                 4.539.000                    3.233,000         908          73
Physially
Handicapped
Children
044  Integrated Family Development in Sohag          Sohag          Dev. fot        12/1/9                  300.000       986.894      1000,00        364,540            0         330
Special
Needs
Children h
Helwan
045  Film Makers Development Center                                                                                      1.645,000          _         991.000          100
048  Healh S Environmental Awareness (CARITAS)       Alexandria.    CARITAS         9/16194     9/16197                  1,698.000                    553,200            0         405       18,(
Sohag, Minia,   Egypt
AssiLut
049  Income Generabng Loans (CARITAS)                Alexandria,                    9/16/94     9/16197   1,250.000       275.106                     762,000        1.400         200
Minia, Sohag,
Assiut
050  Prevention of Diarrhea in Cena                   cne           COA in El Tod   11t30194                              209,378                     206.586            3                   14,'
067  lliteracy Project                               Sharkiya 1     GALAE            217/95                              1,500.000                   1,500,00tl                    500       12,.
080  f3asic Education                                Alexandna,      CARITAS        9/16/4      9/16/97                  1.639,                       559,350                      40
Minia. Assiut,   Egypt
Sotiag                                                                __             __
_~~~~~~~ -                                                                 .     l         _                                -      - 



Serial                  ProJWct Time                    GoVnmorste       SAc      StafIng   Compleiwon [   Controcted Amount         Disbursed Amount               Actual Job Otpp
No.                                                                            JDte            Date       Loans   I   Granto         Loans   |       rnts    Panwanent |   no,wo
Improvement of Environmental & Health Conditions    Safaga                                                           513,000                     220,000                       42
091  Job Opportundies for Female Students & Graduates   Port Said    Student        of 13193    6f108       200,000       463.830      200.000        463,830           20
Association
092  Center for Develpment Services                                                                                         13,000                     13.000
093  Strengthening the Capacity of NGOs              Cairo           AUC            7114193                                t 115,561                   115,560                    _
094  Female Education Training/Sheikh Zayed          Ismailia        Women's         7f619                                215,030                      215,03           18
Association
Icr Family
Care
095  Women's Legal Literacy                          Cairo           AJilance for    8f4193                                136,000                     136,00            1           39
Amab Women
096  Illiteracy Project                              Fayoum 1        GALAE          9f16193                              1,00.000                    1,50.000                      500       10,1
097  Emadication of Illiteracy (CEOSS)               Cairo, Minia,    CEOSS         9125193     1212594                   686,246                     O88824                          0       11,
Assiut                    I
098  Community Health (CEOSS)                        Cairo, Minia,    CEOSS         9/25/93     12Q25/94                 1.457,144                   1,457,144                               82.
Assiut                     __     _      __________                                                      _
099  Basic Needs Infrastructure Project (CEOSS)      Cairo, Giza,    CEOSS         101694       128/95                  1,421,000                   1,421,09                                 6,
Oaliubiya,
Alexandria, Beni
Suef. Minia,
100  NGO Capaciy Building                            Cairo, Assiut,   CEOSS        10128/94                              1,429,00t                   1,429,CO                                 7,
Minia, Giza,
Qalrubiya,
Alexandria, Beni
101  Women's Development in Qabouti                  Port Said      CDA in           911/93      911/94     275,000       273.448                      197,868                       12
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Os~Ciboutl  _ _ _ _
102  Illiteracy Project                              Assiut 1       CLAE          10/15/93                               1,500,000      _             983,000            _         500       10Q
103  llideracy Project                              Gharbiya 1     GALAE         10/26193                     _         1,500.000                   1,500.000     _               500       10,t
104  Illiteracy Project                              Oena 1         GALAE         10i30193                               1,500,000                   1,500,00                     500       112t
105  Total Development for the Family in aena        Dena           Total Daev for   10130/93  10/30/95     200,000        510,845     200.000         510,845         200            0       17,
the Family
106  Illiteracy Project                              Giza 1         GALAE        111/10/93                               1,500,000                   1.500,00                      500       10,
107  lliteracy Project                               Ismailia       GALAE         11/24/96                               1,500,000                  1,500000                      500        10
108  Iliteracy Project                               Dakahliya 1     GALAE          1211/93                              1.500,000                   1.500,000                     500        10,(
109  lliteracy Project                               Beni Suef 1    GALAE         11/18193          _ _                  1,500,000                   1,500000                      500        10,(
110  Illiteracy Project                              Kafr El Sheikh 1 GALAE         12/1/93                              1,500,000                   1,500,000                     S00        10.(
111  Iliteracy Project                               Damietta 1     GALAE         11/28/93                               1,500,000                   1,5,000 oa                    500       10.,
112  Illiteracy Project                              Port Said I    GALAE           12/3/93  ___                         1,500,000                   1,50000                         W 500   10,C
113  Illiteracy Project                              Qaliubiya I    GALAE           12/7193                              1,500,0OO  _i __            1,50000                       500       10,
114  Illiteracy Project                              Suez 1         GALAE         12/11 t93_                          1   S00,0001                   1,50.000                      375        10(
. . __ . . .-                                                                        -             .             .



|=;   Project rit/u            G,owrorate          s   r Starsing  Completion       ConntractetdAmount       Disbursed Amount              Actual Job Op          Actual
No.                                                                                Date        Date        Loans        Grnts_       Loans         Granth     Pmnenn ni        portrv    11:
1    integrated Development for Rural48t'ban Women   1 airo                     M           -200                     4 86.                       488550       t t 
Egyptian
Pasychiroo
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gists______
116  Family Care in Sayeda Zeinab & 1th ofRamadan    Cairo           Associatilon    III)9      1211)9                     582,000                    236,000          735          363,'
for Family
I _                                                             Suppont    I_I
117  tev. d Training Center in Diarb Negm            Sharkiya        CD in Diarb   1V26)94       -1997      300,0         527,421                    386.293            0
____                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Negm       _ _  _ _     _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _     _  _  _ __                                _ _  _     _ _  _
118  Integrated Development in Matariya (Dakahliya)  Dakahliya      Multi          11)119c       4/1)98                  6,749,000                  2,751,000           16           3
Association ____      _____
122  Illiteracy Project                              Ismailia 2     GALAE           6/9/94                               1,500,000t                 1,500.000            0         500       12,!
123  Illiteracy Project                              Oakahliya 2    GALAE          211494                      _         1,500,000                  r500                0  _        500      12,!
124  Illiteracy Project                              Gharbiya 2     GAAE A          6/5/94           _                   1,500,000                  1,500,000            0         500       12,i
125  Illiteracy Project                              Karr El Sheikh 2 GALAEC       12/9/94                              11.500,000                  1,500t000 0t                   500       12,5
127  lliteracy Project                               Giza 2         GALArS         5120)9tSC 0 0 _                                         _1.500,00                    0          500       12,5
128  Illiteracy Project                              Qaliubiya 2    GALAE         12/21/94                               1.500,000                  1.500.000           0          500       12.E
129  Illiteracy Project                              Fayoum 2       GALAE           615/94                               1,500,000                  1,500,000      _      __       500       10C
130  Illiteracy Project                              Beni Suer2     GALAE          5/24/94                               1.5W,000                   1.500.000                      500       12.5
131  Illiteracy Project                              Qena 2         GALAE          5/14/94                               1,500,000                  1,50,000                       500       15,0
132  Illiteracy Project                              Assitut 2      GALAE   -    5/10t94                                 1.500,000                  1,500,000                      500       15.0
133  Illiteracy Project                              Assiut 3       GALAE          5)10/94                               1,500,000                  1,500.000                      500       15.0
134  Family Planning & Fertility Re-duction Project  Qena, Sohag,   Ministry of    10)1/9       2116)98                  9,572,000                  5,003,00          750          78
Aswan          Health &
_Population
135  One Class School                                Giza, Beheira,   MiniS"ry of   4)1)95      5/31/97                  8,050,637                  6,973,000                        0
Matrouh,       Education
Dakahliya, Minia
136  Family Library Project                          Cairo                    _                                            100,000                    100.000X                       0
137  Illiteracy Project                              Dakahliya 3    GALAE          6)14)94                               1,500,000                  1,500,0i ox                   50         12,5
138  Facuity of Arts Lieracy Program                 Dekahilya      Faculty ofr     810194     11110194                    16,400                      16.400
Arts
(Mansours)
139  Illiteracy Project                              Assiut 4       GALAE         10115194                              1,500,000                   1,500,000                     5C0       15,O
140  Illiteracy Project                              Assiut 5       GAltAE        10/15/94                              1,500,000                   1500,000                      500        15.0
141  Illiteracy Project                              Assiut 6       GALAE          8/16/95                              1,575,.l00                  1,575,000                     500        15.0
142  lliiteracy Project                              Giza 3         GALAE         10/21/94                              1.500.000            _      1,500,000                     500        15.0
143  Illiteracy Project                              Katr El Sheikh 3 GALAE        12)9)9                                1,500,000                  1,500,000                     500        12,5'
144  Illiteracy Project                             Ismailia 3      GALAEC        1210/i94                              1,500,000                   1,500,000                     500       15.0
151  Developing Rehabilitation Center for Handicapped in   Damietta  Cairo Bank in   1/1/94                 250.000      1,039.542                    346,000           0            0
PDamietta                                                         mieta 
158  9Sudents Donmitory in Beer El Abd               North Sinai    Social Unit     3)1/95      1011/96                   368.440       25,188        368,440           0            0
166  Comprehensive Dev. & Integrated Care            Assiut, Aswan.  National      1214194       2/1)97                 1,506,600                   1.506,600           0           0        10t
Giza. Fayoum,  Councfiror
Gharbiya,      Childhoad &
Sohag, Port    Motherhood
Said, Red Sea
_Oaliubiya



Serial                 Project Tim tlernorat|                          SA4s    s5jnrg Cwnphtlon          Contrced Amsount        Disbureed Amount             Actual . fo           Acht
No.           II                                                            j  Date        Datel       Loans       Grant.       Loan          Grant.   pinnt    r                Em
181  Prevention From El Wady El Motasadee Fever    Aswan                                _        _                    86                                           0_000  758,Xit0
182  Ltilizing Cultural Activities for Serving Cormmunity  Aswan  Authorty far  2Q2519                              1,057,490                    394,930           0           0
Cultural
Places
183  Youth & Sports Directorate In Aswan           Aswan          Youth &                    1127198                2.177,00                   1.142.6C!                  -   a
Sprts
DIrectorate In
lAsean
189  Specialized Public Clinic in Bossili Village  Beheira        Mosques        81S95        4/5196                  2111.500                   211,500           0           0      11,
Renovation
Association in
190  Kadous Charitable Poly Clinic                 Beheira        Charitable    4/17/95                                92.600                     92,600           0                  30.1
lslamtc
Association iIn
Kadous
191  Hospital Suppot & CtA in Zawyet Razene        Menoufla       COA In         7/9/98                               591,340                     44,000           0           0
Zawyat
ZRazeri.
196  Center d Productive Farmilies Improvement                                                                      2,000.000                  2,000,000           0           0
197  Methodology lbr National Control of Schistosomiasis   Sharkiya  Ministry of  6/21/96   10/21/96                  281,171                    281,171           0           0
(Pilot Project)                                              Health &
Population
198  Women's Employment in Productive Projects     Giza          lbnati         725195       7/25/97i                 405,000                    405.000          30
(6th of October City)                        A_sociton
199  Illiteracy Prcject                            Beheira 1      GALAE          8/5/95                             1.500,00K                    670.000           0           0 
200  Illiteracy Project                            Kafr El Sheikh 4 GALAE       8/25i95                              1,50,000                   1,500,000          0         500       12.!
201  Illiteracy Project                            Aswan 1        GALAE          8/27/95                             1,500.000                   670.000           0         500       12.i
202  Illiteracy Project                            Damietta 2     GAL-AE         9/13/95 _____    ____               1,500,000 _____   ___670.000 ___  0                     500       12.5
203  Illiteracy Project                            Menoufia 1     GALAE          9/14/95                 =           1,162800t                  1,162,800          0         385        9,f
204  Illiteracy Project                            Sharbiya 2     GALAE          9/15195                             1.250.000                  1,250a000          0         400       10.C
205  Illiteracy Project                            Sharldya 3     GALAE          9/15/95                              8368200                    836.20D           01        275        6.E
206  Illiteracy Project                            Fayoum 3       GALAE          9/24/95                            11,500.000                   670,000          D0         500       12.,
207  Illiteracy Project                            Minia 1        GALAE         9/22/95                              1,000,000                  1,000,000          0         330        8,2
208  IRiteracy Project                             Minia 2        GALAE          9122195                             1,376,000                  1,376,000          0         450       11,2
209  Illiteracy Project                            Sohag 1        GALAE          9/12195                             1,000000 _1000.000 _0                                   330        8,2
210  Igiteracy Project                             Sohag 2        GALAE          9/12/95                              894.500                    894.500           0         300        7,!
211  IllIteracy Project                            Beheira 2      GALAE         9/22195                              1,133,240                  1,133,240          0         380        9.5
212  Illiteracy Project                            Beheira 3      GALAE          9/22195                              713,200                    713,200           0         230        5,7
213  Illiteracy Project                            Aswan 2        GALAE          1013195                              402,600                    402.600           0         130        3,2
214  Illiteracy Project                            New Valley 1    GAL-AE       10/10/95             _____            328,800 ____               328.800_____  0             110        2.7
215  Dairy Cattle-Raising                          Beni Suef      Local         11/24195     4/24/10   1,000,000      202,880      500,000        83.062           0           0
Community
Development
Associatin
216  Women & Child Illiteracy in Alxandria         Alexandria     Egyptian        111194    01101/97                   240,920                    121,460         22           1          5
Ar Chgd



Serial                  P.aSe flo                       Governorate      SAs      Stlring   Coanipletion    ConthctedAmount          DiShursed Amount              Actual Job Opp         _   Aetus
No.                                                                                Date       Dote        Loans        Grants        Loans         Grants    Iermaent   r por            me
217  Training t Youth in Monitoring 3                Cairo,         Ctbb 7_                                              1.487,000                  1.246.000     _       _
Alexandria,    Islamic
Beheira.       AsOcation in
Gharbiya,      Heiwan
Dakahlia,
Ismailia,
Sharkiya, Minia.
Assiut, Sohag.
Qena, Aswan
218  Support for Computer Center (Fatma El Zahraa)   Cairo          Fatma El         31/91      11/1/96                    92,400                      92,4             0            0
Zahraa
Assoition in
AmW
219  NGO Support in Habiat IV                        Cairo          CARrAS          U2119       812819                    236,0XJ                     202,              0            0
Egypt
220  Illiteracy Project                              Sharkiya 4     GALAE          3/13/96                               1.000,000                  1,000.000           0          330        8,
221  Illiteracy Project                              Sharkiya 5     GALAE          3/13/96                               1,000000 ,                 1000,000            0          330        8,
222  Illiteracy Project                              Sharkliya 6    GALAE          3/13196                               1,200.000                  1.20.000            0          400       10.'
223  Illiteracy Project                              Sharkiya 7     GALAE          3113196                               1300.000                   1,300,000           0          430       10.
224  llIteracy Project             aena 3                          GALAE          3/25196                               1,500,000                    670,000 _                    500       12.
225  Illiteracy Project                              Beheira 4      GCALAE          331"96           _       _           1,000r000                  1.000.000 ,                    330        8,
226  Illiteracy Project                              Beheira 5      GALAE           4/3196                               1.000,000                  1,000,000           0          330       8:
227  Illiteracy Project                              Beheira 6      GALAE           4/3/96                               1t000.000                  1.000,000 0,                   330        8.'
228  Illiteracy Project                              Menoufla 2     GALAE           4/3/96                               1.200.000                  1,200,000           10         400       10.t
229  Illiteracy Project                              Menoulia 3     GALAE           4/3196                               1,300,000                  1,300S000 t         0          430       10,-
230  Illiteracy Project                              Minia 3        GALAE           4/3196                               1,300t000                  1.300.000                      430       10.-
231  Illiteracy Project                              Minia 4        GALAE           4/3/95                  -            1,200.0 O                  1,200,000 tl_ 0                400       10,o
232  Illiteracy Project                              Minia 5        GALAE           4/3/96         _ _                   1.000.000         _        1,000,0C            0          330        8,.
233  Eradication of Illiteracy                       Sohag 3        GALAE                                                1,000,000                  1.000,000           0          33t        8.:
234  Illiteracy Project                              Sohag 4        GALAE          3/96 _                                1,000,00 ___ _             1,000 OS_O           0         33a ,:
235  Illiteracy Project                              Sohag 5        GALAE          3/29196                              1,KO,000                    1000,000 _OOO                  330 8_      .
236  Illiteracy Project                              Sohag 6        GALAE          3/29/96                               1,000.000 D                1,000.000           t          33t _      B:,
237  Illiteracy Project                              New Valley     GALAE          3/29/96                               1 tKOtlOO,                  1000,000 D I                  330        a,:
238  Illiteracy Project                              Luxor 1        GALAE           4/96                                  5tO,OW                      5Do.000W                     16t       4,t
239  Women Benefiting trom New Lands (Banger El Sokak)  Alexandria  Mlnistry of    3/27/96                               2,008.000     151,950                          0
Agriculture
240  Women Benefiting from New Lands (Harir)         Dakahliya      Ministry of     6/8/96                               1,374,000                    103,9             0
Agricufture   _
241  Specialized Clinics in Zaytoon                  Cairo          Egyptian       4/14/96                  369.000                    369.000                          0
Engineers
Association
242  Illiteracy Project                              Aswan 3        GALAE           4i51961                          _  5,KOO,tKK                   1,000,tKY           0          330    ___
243  Loan Extention to Micro Projects in Matrouht                                                                         590,000                    334.000            0                   _
Govemorate                                                                                                   I
244  Community Health in El Saidia                   Minia          Ali Ben Abi     5/4/96       514199                   721.768                     415,128           0            0
Taleb
Association in
245  Integrated Medical Dispensary                   Sharkiya       Hedaya         5/24/96      8124/97                   374,274                     223.0             0            0
Association   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-~~~~~~~~~ =   =                                                                                                                                                           -  l
serial                   Project Tte                  | Gorrnorate         SAs      StartIng   Completion     Contracted Amount         Disburse  Amount               Actual Job Opp.         Actu
No.   _ _           ________I_                                                   I  Date        Dale         Loans        Grants        Loans         Grant                       "y
246  Women;s Health Improvement                       Kafr El Sh5eikh   Mitr          81596                                1,670.000                     8468750            0 281 2 
Health
247  Womenrs Health Improvement                       Giza            Ministry of     8159                                 1,670,000                     846,750            0          281        61
____ ___ ___ ___ Health__            _ _ _ _ __               _ _ _ _ _ _ _
248  Womenrs Heath Improvement                        Beheira         Ministry of     714196                               1,670.0C0                   1.391.950                       281        6 C
Health                                                         ________
249  Women's Heath Improvement                        Monouhia        MinIstry of     714/96                               1.670.000                   1.391.950                      281         6 C
Health                                          __ _ _ _ _ _ _                              _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
250  Women's Health Improvement                       Beni Suet       Ministry of     714/96                               1.670.000                   1,391.950            0         281         6.t
Health
251  Women s Health Improvement                       Oena            Ministry of    7/14196                               1,670.000                   1,391,9S             0         281        6Ac
Health       ___________                                                                            __
252  Specialized Clinics in Zaytoon                                                                                         341000                       1250_0a OOt
253  Women's Heath Improvement                        Oaliubiya       Ministry of    7/16197                               167.000 C1.391 95t                                         281 1 0      C
254  Woffmen's Health Improvement                     South Snai      minitry of      619                                  1670,000                    1.391,950            0         281         6.C
Health_____ __
255  Women's Health Improvement                       Sharkiya        Minis  of       8/519                                1.670,000                   1.391.950            0         281         6.C
255  Womn's Helth Imrovemen         Sharkya         Minstry of      8/5/961.670.00                                                    1.39.95He0281hS.
256  Women's Heath Improvement                        Assiut          Ministry of    7/16196                               1,670.000                   1.391.950            0          281        6.C
257  Nabonal Integrated Project for Improvement of                    Miistry of     107196                                9,750,0o0                    1,t83,660                       6i        2.
,Women's Health                                                 Heatth
258  Women's Health Improvement                       Matrouh         Minit of        8/5J96                               1,670.000                   1.391950 0S                     281        6,C
Health                                                                                      ___
259  Women's Health Improvement                       Damietta        Ministry        815/96                               1,670R000                   1,391 950            0          281        6.C
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~Health_ _ __ _ _ __                                                   _  __                   _  _
260  Women's Health Improvement                       North Sinai     Ministry of     8/5196                               1.670.000                   1,391.95             0          281        6 C
Health
261  Women's Health Improvement                       Port Said       ministy o'      815196                               1.670.000                   1.391.0              0          281        6.C
262  Women's Health Improvement                       Ismailia        Ministry of     8/519C                               1.670.000                   1,391,95             0          281        6.C
______ _____ Health
263  Women's Health Improvement                       Minia           Ministry of     8/5196                              1670.000                     1,391.95            0          281        6.C
Health
264  Hygiene Awareness & General Sanitation           Beni Suef       Environment     8/4196       214/99                  1,800,309                     809.918            0            0
Protection
Association
265  Women's Health Improvement                       Gharbiya        Ministry of    1002196                               1,670,000                    1,391,95            0          281        6.C
Health
266  Women's Health Improvement                       Dakahliya       Ministry of    10/2196                               1,670.000                    1,391,950           0          281        6,C
Health 
267  Women's Health Improvement                       Suez            Ministry of    10/2196                               1,670.000                    1,391.950           0          281        6,C
_______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ ______H ealth
268  Women's Health Improvement                       Fayoum          Ministry of     8/2196                               1,670,000                    1,391950 09                    281        6.C
Health     I
269  Women's Health Improvement                       Sohag           Mistry of      10/2/96                               1,670,000                    1.391.950                      281        6,0
_________________________________________________   H ealth                                                                                              __ __ __ _
270  Rural Women's Development                        Giza            Giza           12/4/96                               1.248,000                     308,302            0
Govemorate
271  Comprehensive Medical Clinics                    Sharkiya        Egyptian Red    10/22196                             2,613.959                           0            0
Crescent
socDet5
If272  10ev. of Human Resources in Youth Centers       Feyoum                          12171961                               580,0001                          0                         0



Serial                  Project itlle                  Governorate      SAs      Starting   Cwinpletion    ContractedAmount        Disbursed Amount              Actual job Opp.        Actuad
No.                                                                               Date       Date   I  Loans         Grants        Loans        Grants    pwmsnent   Tmener             A cian
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                                                                                                                         -     ._^
273  Heath & Social Development in El Tal El-Kebir  Ismailia       Health a         1N8                                `1,000.0                          0 o
social
Development
Association
274  Training of Youth in Monitoring 4             -                                                                   1,262,000                   690,000 __         0 t 
275  Women's Health Improvement                     Cairo (North)    ___   _ _            .                            1,670,000                        a0 _                    281        6,1
276  Women's Health Improvement                     Cairo (East)                                                       1.670,000                         0            0         281        6,t
277  Women's Health Improvement                     Cairo (West)                                                       1,670.000                         0            0         281        6.1
278  Women's Health Improvement                     Cairo (South)                                          . ._  _     1,670.000                         0            0         281        6.1
279  Women's Health Improvement                     Alexandria                                                         1,670.000                         0            0         281        6,1
(Middle)e
280  Women's Health Improvement                     Alexandria                                                         1.670,000                         0            0         281       6.1
I                                       [~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~West)_                                                              _____
281  Women's Health Improvement                     Alexandria (East)                                                  1.670.000                         0            0         281       6,0
282  Women's Health Improvement                     Aswan                                                              1.670,000 t0                                            281       6,i
283  Women's Health Improvement                     New Valley                                                         1,670.000 t0 _                                           281       6,t
284  Women's Health Improvement                     Red Sea                          .                                 1.670.000                         0            0         281       6.1
285  Women's Health Improvement                     Luxor 1                                                            1,670000                         0          . 0         281       6,t
286  Family Development                             Qena (Farshout)                                                     560.000                          0            0           0
[                                                Total                    _                               5,915,6651  330.752.014   2,605,138    242,023.954      764221    47.9601   1.768.t



Table V-12: EDP Outputs Achieved During SFD Phase I
Indlcators                      1993             1994              1995              1996         Total
Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned  Actual  Planned |Actual  (Actual)
Number of enterprises                      4,777    7,997    6,210   20,150    8,692   12,500    9,961   12,622   53,269
Number of entrepreneurs                    4,777    8,694    6,210   22,389    8,692   13,950    9,961   14,117   59,150
Average loan size                                                                                                17,500
Number of awareness campaigns held           45       50       65       75       80       90      100      105      320
Number of publications distributed         4,500    5,000    6,500    7,500    8,000    9,000   10,000   10,500   32,000
Number of NGOs trained                                             _  __         15       20       20       25       45
Number of NGO staff trained                                                      45       60       80      100      160
Technical assistance (No. of beneficiaries)*  4,777    7,500    6,210   16,000    8,692   11,160    9,961   11,560   46,220
Number of rural beneficiaries                       2,600             6,045             3,750             3,470   15,865
Percentage of rural beneficiaries                     30                27                27                27       27
Number of female loanees                   2,335    4,250    1,170    4,210    1,775    2,847    1,875    2,414   13,721
Percentage of female loanees                          49                 19               20                19       26
,verage female loan -_I __    24,000                                 15,500            15,235            14,220   17,760
'Bneficiaries are deflned as lanees



Table V-13: EDP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
Indicators                           1993         1994         1995        1996        Total
Number of contracted projects              24           22          34          23           103
Contracted amount                  488,288,000  257,153,000  241,735,000 397,028,196  1,384,204,196
Loans _                                                                         1,307,968,802
Grants                                                                             76,235,394
Disbursed amount                   203,245,000  542,196,000   101,495,000 277,816,151  1,124,752,151
Loans                                                                           1,111,794,733
Grants                                                                             12,957,418
Planned job creation
Permanent                          75,176       57,496       64,385     18,727       215,784
Temporary                          24,439        6,381       11,838     34,416        77,074
Actual job creation   _
Permanent                          21,827       49,406       34,311     47,970       153,514
Temporary                               0       30,204       17,334      11,502       59,040
Planned beneficiaries                 375,880      287,746      323,550     94,840     1,082,016
lActual beneficiaries                  46,399      309,741      171,550    239,830       767,520



Table V-14: EDP Project Information
Status up to 31/12/96
SerNaO                 Project rItle                     - Oovernorate         Da Starting  jDurin      ContractedAmount             DhbursedAmount          Atul       F
__ _______________________        _        __            .__          Dae                   Loans          Grants         Loans         Gants
001  Handicrafts Expansion Project                  P        All       G       19/03/92    6          60,329,702      1,880,120     60.329,702    1,880,120    6,711     2,
002  CrediH Guarantee Compa_ny                     P/S       All        B       8/12/92    3          10,000,000       400,000      10,000,000      400,000      228
003  PBDAC I                                        P/S        All       B       8U1892     5          30,0.0,00C       330,00C      30,000,000      330,000    4,758     1,
004  National Bank of Egypt 1                      P/S       All        B       5/13/93    5          50,000,o0a             0      50,000,000           0     3,449
005  Handicrafts c  (IDB                           P/S  El Salem City   B       3117/93    5          20.000.000       650,000       1,095,031      141 .070      79
006  Development of Handicrafts Enterprises 1      P/S  Sayeda Zeinab   B       11/5/92    4           1t570.000             0       1,570,000           0        54
007  Alexandria Businessmen's Association          P/S    Alexandria    B        8/9/93    3          24,000,000      1.366,807     16,000,000    1,004.661      350
008  Bank of Alexandria 1                          Pis       All        B      11/18/93    5          40.000,000          _0        40,000000            0     1.857
009  Small Enterprise Dev, for University Graduates  PIS    Cairo       N      10/2593     5           3.300,000       231,000       3,300,000      154,000      137
010  Banque du Caire 1                             P/S       All        B      11/28/93    5          30,000,000             0      30,0000              0     1,281
012  Misr Bank 1                                   P/S       All        B       6128/93    5          50,000,000             0      50,000,000           0     1,657
014  PBDAC 2                                       P/S       All        B      12/22/93    5          10,000,000             0      10,000,000           0       701
015  Industrial Park at Sadat City                  P      Sadat C!ty    B      6/15/93    5                  0         101,467             0       101,467        8
016  Industrial Park at 6th October City            P    6th October   B        2/10/94    5           7,700,000        231,000      4,200,000      150,000      1i
017  Study for Need-Based Training for Entrepreneurs                                                                    126,000         _           126,000
019  Cattle Raising in Beheira                      P       Beheira    B       11/28/93    5           5,000,000             0       5,000,000           0       648
020  Cattle Raising in Kafr El Sheikh               P   Kafr El Sheikh   B     11/28/93    5           7,500,000             0       7,500,000           0       811
021  Cattle Raising in Dakahliya                    P      Dakahliya    B      11/28/93    5           10,000,000            0      10,000,000           0      1.329
022  Cattle Raising in Gharbiya                     P      Gharbiya     B      12/21193    5           7,500,000             0       7,500,000           0       683
023  Dev. ot Sma1l Enterprises for Small S.M.                               _ P  S ___l__  7                             35,000                      15,000
024  Industrial Park for Small Industries 3         P   Sayeda Zeinab   B       7/13/93    6           6,345,000        250.000             0        15,000        0
025  Cattle Raising in Fayoum                       P      Fayoum       a B     8/23/93    5          10,000,000             0      10,000,000           0      1,006
026  Cattle Raising in Sharkiya                     P      Sharkiya     B      11/28/93    5           10,000,000            0      10,000,000           0       875
027  Cattle Raising in Menoufia                     P      Menoufia     B       12/6/93    5           10,000,000            0      10,000,000           0       997
028  Cattle Raising in Ismailia                     P       Ismailia    B      11/28/94    5            1.500,000            0       1.500,000)          0       145
029  CaHtle Raising in Qena                         P       Qena        B      11/28/93    5           3,0C0,01)C            C       3,000,0Clt          0       200
030  Cattle Raising in Sohag                        P       Sohag       B      11/2894     5           3,500,000             0       3,500.000           0       236
031  Cattle Raising in Assiut                       P       Assiut      B      11/28/93    5           6,000,000        135,000      6,000,000      135,000      507
032  Cattle Raising in Luxor City                  ___      Luxor____       ___1293_______                                           100.0D               07
033  Development of Handicrafts Enterprises 2       P   Sayeda Zeinab   B        1/5/94    5             500,00C             0         5C0,00C           0        14
034  Pilot Project for Breeding Poultry             P        Giza       B       1/12/94    5            11,400,000      100.000        800,000       20,000       43
035  Pilot Projec for Sericulture                   P      Gharbiya     B        3/8/94    5            1,000.000       400.000        400.000      400,000        2
037  Feasibility Analyses for Pilot Incubation Centers               II_                                                580,000
038  Cattle Raising in Giza        ,                                 I B         4      ______ 5        5,0C'0,WC            0       2,500,000            0       193
039  Cattle Raising in Beni Suef                    P      Beni Suef    B       4/24/94    5            20SOO,OOC            0       2,500,00r,                  201



Serial                 Project Tite                       Governorate  SA    St&rring    Durstlon T     Contracted Amount            cDkabursectAount              l    =
No.                                |   Owt               l                                                           hnsf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aculc   Fema
No.                                                                            o te                   Loans         Granns   Gj              |   Grants                  ef
040  Cattle Raising in Oatiubiya                    P      Oaliublya    B      11121/94    5           5,000,000             0       5,000,000            0      252
041  Cattle Raising In Wadi El Gedid                P   Wadi El Gedid   B       4/11/94    5           1,000,000             0       1,000,000            0       80
042  Cattle Raising in Aswan                        P       Aswan       B       3/25/94    5           5,000,000             0       5,000,000            0      359
045  Prod. Coop. Assoc. for Engineering Industries  P      Sharkiya    0        9120194    5           2,124,100        100,000      1.000,000       54,600       32
052  Application of Solid Waste bgt. Project               Ismailia    =                                                163,000                     163,000
053  Fish Farms in Dakahliya                        P      Dakahliya    B      28/03/95    4           1,500,000         75,000      1,500,000       75.000      100
054  Studv on Feasibility of Setting Up Tech./Prod.                                                                     320,000                     320,000
064  Small Enterprise Development                  P/S    Gharbiya      B       9/20/94    7           5,000,000        250,000      2,500,000      100.000       91
065  National Bank of Egypt 2                      P/S       All        B      28/07194    7         100.000.000             0    100.000.000             0     6.186    1,
066  Misr Bank 2                                   P/S       All        B      28/07/94    7          50,000,W00             0      50,000.000           0      1,812
067  Banque du Caire 2                             P/S       All       B         8N/94     7          30,000,00              0      30,000,000           0      1.316
069  Bank of Alexandria 2                          P/S       All       B       20/09/94    7          10.000.DO0             0      10.000,000           0       486
070  Incubation Center In 6th of October/ist Stage                                                                       32,000                       17000
071  Socio-Economic Consequences of Cattle Raising  =      Fayoum      =                                                 80,000                       80000 
072  Bank of Alexandria 3                          P/S       All        B      12/12/94    7          30,000,000             0      30,000,000            0     1,401
073  Promotion of Small Enterprises                P/S     Beheira      B      12/12/94    7           6,000,000        300,000      4,000,000      105,000      284
074  PBDAC 3                                       P/S       All       B        8/12/94    10         20,000,000        300,000     20,000,000       90,000     1147
075  Obstacles Facing Beneficiaries of Handicrafts Proj.                                                                105,000                     105,000
076  Cattle Raising in North Sinai                  P    North Sinai    B      17/12/94    5           1,500,000         60,000      1,500,000       30,000       69
077  Science & Technology Parks in Egypt                                                                                860,000 _                   737,000
078  Feeding Ancitlaries SMEs                       P      Beheira      B      11/27/95    5           5,000,000        250,000      1.250,000       62,500        0
079  Support of Light Transportation                S       Minia       B       6/25)95    7           4,500,000        200,000      4,500,00t      100,000       34
082  Misr Bank 3 - Existing Enterprises            P/S       All        B      28/03/95    5          10,000,000             0       5,000,000            0       26
083  National Bank of Egypt 3 - Existing Enterprises  P/S    All        B      28/03/96    5          10,000,000             0      10,000,000            0      5663
084  Banque du Calre 3 - Existing Enterprises      P/S       All        B      28t03197    5          10,000,000             0      10,000,000            0      263
085  Bank of Alexandria 4 - Existing Enterprises   P/S       All        B      28/03/98    5          10,000,000             0       5,000,000           0        51
090  Milk Production Enterprise in Greater Cairo    P                   B      16t09196    6          13,000,000        390,000             0             0
100  Promotion of SMEs in Minla (Abou Kirkas)      P/S                 B       19/09/96    5           5,000,000       350,000       1.000,000       70,000
104  Enterprise Dev. Center Incubator - 6th of October                                                                1,600,000
105  Enterprise Dev. Center Incubator              P/S    Mansoura     B       30/09t96    6     _       _1,200,000                         0            0
114  Support of Light Transportation                S    New Valley    B         718/95    7           1,200,000        48,000       1,200,000       24,000       24
115  Support of Light Transportation                S    North Sinai    B        7/8195    7           3,000,000        90,000       3,000,000       45,000       69
118  Dairy Cattle & Associated Industries           P       Minia      B        5/25/5     5           5,000.000        300.000      2.500.000      150.000       57
119  Promotion of Small Enterprises                P/S    Alexandria    B       5/25/95    7           1,500.000        105.000      1,000,000       31,500       15
120  Small Enterprise Dev. - New Areas             P/S   15 Regions    B        5/25/95    5           2,000.000        100,000      1,000.000       50,000        0
121  Distribution of Agricultural Inputs            S        All       B        5/25/95    5          10,000,000       300,000       2,500,000       60.000       14
122  National Bank of Egypt 4                      P/S       All       B         7/8/95    5          15,000,000      1,050,000     15,000,000     1,050,000    1,058
123  Misr Bank 4                                   P/S       All       B         7/8/95    5          15,000,000      1,050,000      7,500,000     1,050,000     105
124  Daisx Cattle Raising in Menoufia               P      Menoufla    B         7/8/951   5           5,000,000        150,000      2,500,000       30,000       50



Serial |               Project Trit               |       Govemorata |     | Starting  IDurtion         Contwcted Amount             Disbursed A unctual | Fe
No.                                                                           Date                _                                                       | Benefic. | fh
i__________                                 Loans          Grants         Loans         Grants
125  Cattle Raising In Suez                         P       Suez       a         7/8195    5           1,500,000        60,000        750,000       15,000        8
126  Alexandria Bank 5                             P/S       AU        B        14/8195    5           5.000,000       350,000      5.000,000      350,000       230
127  Cattle Raising In Fayoum 2                     P      Fayoum      B         718195    5           5,000,000       180,000      1,250,000       30,000       36
128  Cattle Raising in Sohag 2                      P       Sohag      B         781855    5           3,000,000        90,000        750.000       18.000       21
129  Mobile Vendor & Services                       S        All       B         718195    5          10,000,000       500,000     10,000,000      226,000       143
130  Banque du Caire 4 - Existing Enterprises      P/S       All       B        21/9195    5           5,000,000       350,000      5,000,000      350,000      274
131  Handicraflts Beneficiaries Studies (PEMCO)                                                               .        230,000                     230,000
132  Tech. Econ. Assess. of SFD small enterprise proj.                                                                 174,000                      142,000
133  National Bank of Egypt 5 - New Enterprises    P/S       All       B        10/5/95    5          45,000,000             0     45,000,000            0    2,889
134  National Bank of Egypt 6 - Existing Enterprises  P/S    All       8        1015/96    5          30,000,000             0     30.000.000            0      1466
135  Bank of Alexandria 6 - Existing Enterprises   P/S       All       B        1015/95    5          11,0000000             0      11,000,000           0       269
136  Bank of Alexandria 7 - New Enterprises        PIS       All       8        10)5/95    5          22,000,000             0     22.000,000            0       635
137  Misr Bank S - Existing Enterprises            P/S       All       B        10/5/95    5          27,000,000             0      27,000,000           0         4
138  Mtsr Bank 6 - New Enterprises                 P/S       All       a        10/5/95    5          35,000.000             0     35.000,000            0       195
139  Banque du Caire 5 - Existing Enterprises      PIS       All       B        10/5195    5          12,000,000             0      12,000,000           0       470
140  Banque du Caire 6 - New Enlerprises           P/S       All       B        10/5/95    5          18.000.000             0      18,000,OO           0       633
141  PBDAC 4                                       P/S       All       B        10/5/95    5          50,000,000             0      50,000.000           0      1219
142  Dairy CalUe Raising in Qena                    P       Qena       B        14/8/95    5           2.000,000        60.000        500,000        12,000        9
143  Pilot Project for Sericulture                  P     Dakahliya    B        11/2/95    5           2,500,000       125,000       1,250,000       50,000        0
144  Small & Micro Enterprises                     P/S  Sinai . Canal   a      11/27/95    6           3,000,000       150.000       15,030,000                    2
145  Study for Evaluat. of EDP Lending Component (DAI)    _                                      .                      136,000                     135,000
146  Analytical Study for Handicrafts Projects                                                   .                     325,000                      228,000     _
147  Small Enterprises                             P/S    Alexandria    B       28/3/96    5           5,000.000       350,000       2,500,000      175,000        0
148  Cattle Raising PBDAC 5                        P/S                 B        13/4/96    7         100,000,000             0    100,000,000            0     4,130 .
149  Small Enterprise Development                  P/S       All       B         4/6/96    5          20.000,000             0       40000 000           O         O
150  Small Enlerprise Dev. for Graduates           P/S    Alexandria    B        4/6/96    6           7.500,000        525,000             0       175,000        O
151  Fish Farms in Dakahliya                        P     Dakahliya    B        25/6/96    5           3,000,000        180,000      1,000.000       45,000       471
152  Integrated Development of Agriculture          P      Ismailia    B         817/96    5           3,000,000        150,000      1,000,0W        30,000        0
153  Various Activities                            P/S    Ismailia     B         8/7/96    5           3,000,000        210,000      1 000,000       70,000        0
154  Modem Systems for Agricullure                  P    North Sinai    B        817196    5           5,000,000       250,000       1.000,000       50,000        0
155  Sericulture Development                        P       Assiut     B         87/96     6           1,500,000        105,000             0        45,000        0
156  Dairy Cattle                                   P       Assiut     B         8/7/96    5           3,000,000       200,000              0            0         0
157  Daisy Cattle                                   P      Qaliublya   a         8/7/961   5          10,000,000        400,000      1,6650,000      80,000        01
158  Establish. of Fruits & Vegetables Nurseries    P    Some Gover.   B         8/7/96    5           5,000,000        200,000      1,000,000       50,000        0
159  Incubator                                     P/S    Menoufia     0        10/7196    6                  0       1,600,000             0            0         0
160  Small Contractor                              P/S       All       B        2917i96    5          10,000,000        700,000             0       150,000        0
161  Management of Modem Trade                     P/S   Cairo & Della   B      29/7196    5           5,000,000        150,000             0        75,000        0
162  Dev. of Small Advanced Indus. in Greater Cairo  P                 B        16S/996    6           6,000,000        420.000             0       120.000        0
163  Study With International Engineering Company                                                                        30,000                      15.000
_     __         _       _       _       _       _       _       _           -                             . :                                                          .-



Sadat             P~~~~irojct Title                  (Govemorate TsziT sIt~infCnrllfbrodron                                                                      ca       am
PSSA                    ran,    ouration          Contrcted Amount              Dlabuned Arount           Actual   Female
I l             Loans          Grants          Loans          Grant*
_~~~~Dt                                                            _=.._._  ......_ __  __   __ Beec 5.tef
|164 Slu_y for Cattle Raising                                         _                                      _         ..... 20,000                    10,000
165  Pioneers from Heiwan Unh ers-ty Graduates         P                   B        2619196     6           3,000,000        210.000               0             0         0
166  Youth Projects Ieas Bank                                              BI                                       0          5,000               0         2.500         0
167  Development of Business Activities in Giza       P/S                  B        7/11196     6          10,000,000        700,000               0             0         0
168  Technology Incubators, Feasibilty & Design Study                                _                                       436,000               0             0
1f9  Entrepreneurship Awareness Training, Facully of Engineering                                                              50,000              0              0
199  Enterprise Development Incubators' Project     |                                                                      50,000,000             0              0
=L    -                     Total                    1                      =                             1,307,9W8,802     76,238,394   1,111,794,733    12,SS7,418    67,877    14,31
V/ P: Productve; S: Servces (can be both)
2/M: Minsbles; G: Gove:nowtes N: NGO; B: Bank; O: Other
3/Expected date, if the pn*d tIs stf/underkiementatbn



Table V-15: ERP Outputs Achieved During SFD Phase I
(Actual Figures)
Indicators                        I 1993  I 1994  [ 1995 I  1996 8           Total
1. LaborAdjustmentActivities                   _                                     -                     ||
Number of PEs involved                                           21         3         0        29        53
Number of employees getting early retirement                      0         0         0     1,647     1,647
Percentage of females getting early retirement                    0         0         0        20
Number of retrained PE employees                                321       250         0         0       571
Percentage of females retrained                                   0         0         0         0
2. Training Inemployed Graduates                                                                 I
Number of people trained                                        518     1,230       635     2,392     4,775
Percentage of females trained                                     5        37        19        84
3. Assessment & Upgrading of Training Centers
Number of upgraded training centers                               1         2         1        16        20
Number of assessed training centers                             350                 355                 705
4. Others                                                                                                  I
Number of PE restructuring studies                                                    1         4         5
Other studies                                                     1         3         1         3         8



Table V-16: ERP Job Creation and Beneficiaries
Indlcators                  1993       1994       1995       1996      1997-98     Total
Number of contracted projects     15        11         3           20       __           49
Contracted amount                                              _
Loans                  4,000,000                                              4,000,000
Grants                17,889,400  7,442,000    185,000  133,256,418         158,772,818
Disbursed amount          21,889,400
Loans
Grants                13,034,514  5,746,741  1,040,726  103,226,973         123,048,954
Planned job creation
Permanent                   780       680        883         321                  2,664
Temporary                             800                   1,250    1,414        3,464
Actual job creation
Permanent                   768       680        635         135                  2,218
Temporary                              800                  2,015                 2,815
Planned beneficiaries            79        77         77        7,641    5,075       12,949
Actual beneficiaries             71                             1,889                 1,960



'lable V-17: ERPProjectlnformation
Status up to 31/12/96
Seria/l                 Project Tnite                Governorate SA  | Starting Completion    ContractedAmount        DisbursedAmount  ActualJobOpp. | Actuial  Fems
|INo. I                                                       I           Date      Date       Loans  T    Grants   I LoesI  Grants    Perm  r[Tem.   1enef   Benw
001  El Nasr Casting Company                         Alexandria   PE   22103/93   22/03/96   4,000,000    3,600,000            465,000                       71
002 Employment Skills Retraning System                Sharkiya    V    15/03/93   15/08/94                1.656,876            926.000      60                _
003  Training Centers Evaluation Study 1              26 Gov.    0      7/10/93     1/2/94                  147.000            143.000
004 Training of Youth in Tourism Sector                Cairo    NGO    12/4/93      1/1/94                1.049.400 _         1,049,400    488
007 Labor Restructuring in Alex. Shipyard (Phase I)  Alexandria   PE      1/7/93    1/9/94                1.595,000   =       1.595,000    500                    =
008 Labor Restructuring in Alex. Shipyard (Phases II & Ill)  Alexandria   PE    11/4/96  1/2/97           3,418,065           2.513,904                     280
009 Training of Youth in Tourism Sector (Antiques)      Cairo    NGO   10/14/93     1/8/94                1.426.000           1 426,000    400                       1
014  Misr Hehan for Spinning & Weaving                  Cairo    PE   22/12193   22/03/94                    30,000              7,457    _
015  Misr Dairy & Food Company                          Cairo    PE   22/12193   31/12/96                    30,000             10,000
018  Egy an Co. for Wool Spinning & Weaving             Cairo    PE   20/12193   22/03/94                    30,000              7,466
020  High Dam Company for Civil Works                   Cairo    PE       211/94   30/04/94                  30,000                720
021  Medical Packing Corporation                        Cairo     PE   21112193   22103194                   30,000               8,140                       _
023  Nile General Company for Construction              Cairo     PE      5/1/94   30/04/94                  30,000              10,000
024 Arab General Corporation Construction               Cairo     PE   29112/93   22/03/94                   30000   =           5,874
027 Labor Restructuring Study (Emst & Young)            Cairo     0    24/10193     1/4/94                1,204.500           1,204.500
028  Training of Youth in Monitoring 1                                                                    1,488.000            634,000
029  Labor Restructuring Study (SERCO)                  Cairo     0    28/10/93     1/4/94                5,544.097           5,544,097                       _
030  Nile Co. for Export of Agricultural Crops          Cairo     PE   26/12/93   31/03/94                   30,000                             _
032 El Wadi Co. for Agricultural Crops                  Cairo     PE   29/12/93   31/03/94                   30.000   =          10,000
033 2nd Proj for Training of Youth in Tourism Sector (Antiques)  Cairo    NGO   17/11/94  1/5/95          1.263.910   _       1.263,910    436                       1
036  Youth Training in Agricultural Machinery         Alexandria   M    28/12/94     1/4/97               1,484,400  __         890,640                       75
037 Youth Training in Drilling                          Cairo     V    19/09/94     1/6/96                  218.354             218,354     32
038 Training of Youth in Public Relations               Cairo     V    19/07/94   20/09/94                  813,000             813,000             800              3:
039  Training of Youth in Maintenance of Heavy Equipment  Giza    M       1/2/95     1/2/97                 787,000             654,642     44       25
040  Credit Scheme Study                                Cairo     0    27/07/94   30/10/94                  657.410             658,004
041  Credh Advice for Credit Scheme                     Cairo     0      11/9/94   30/12/94                  50.000              50,000
042  Legal Studies for Credit Scheme                    Cairo     0      11/9/94   30/12/94                  30,000              30.000
043  Training of Youth in Monitoring 2                                                                     1,270,000          1,249,000
044  Training of Youth in Wooden Handicrafts Industries  Giza    NGO   17/11/94      1/4/96                 429,000             415,902    238
045  Training Centers Evaluation Study 2               26 Gov.    0    14/02/95      1/2/96                 100000 _             88,084
046  Feasibility Studies (Phillips Co.)               Alexandria    V     2/8/94     1/4/95                 146,740             146,740
047  Youth Training in Productive Projects (Shalateen)  Aswan     V    16/03/95   31/03/96                  298,000             298,000     20                90
048 Study for Dev. of Vocational & Entr. Training Centers (AFPA)    10 Gov.    0  112/96  1/3/97          2,472.000           1o0s3,000                       77
049  Training of Unemployed Youth in Construction      Aswan      V    29/02/96      1/3/00                 787,942             239,735                      _
050  Restructuring 10 PEs in Textile Sector            8 Gov.     0    22/04/96   15/05/97                 2,774.000            920,805
051  Study of Small Enterprises in Informal Sector     26 Gov.    V    28/05/96      1/2/98                2.642.000             58,000
052  Study of Demand in Egyptian Labor Market          3 Gov.     0    28/05/96   31/03197                   62.000              62.000                          _
053  Severance Payment for 6 Food Industries           3 Gov.    PE   29/05/96   31/12/97                 49,000,000         49,000,000                    1.029     2'
054  Labor Restructuring Study in Misr Dairy Co.       3 Gov.     0    17/06196    1/11/98                  472.000             359.000                     .      _
055  Severance Payment for 8 Construction Companies     Cairo     PE      4/7/96   31/12/97               45.000,000         45,000,000
056 Labor Restructuring Study - Dol/ITC               Alexandria    0     4/7/96    5/11/96                                     5 69092_ 56992               _



Serial                  Project Title rAGovernorate| SA  1 Starting Completion    ContractedAmount                      DlabursedAmount  Actual JobAOp   Actual | Fef
No.                                                                       Date      Date       Loans        Grants   ILoans I  Grants     Pern.  Temn.   Beneft  Ben
057  Labor Restructuring Study - ECIS                   Cairo      0       417196     511197                  498,615            241,433    _
058  Development of Training Centers (AFPA 2)          10 Gov.    0    28/08/96   31112/98                 18,761,305   _       1,080,333
059 Cairo Company for Metal Products                    Cairo      PE     1019/96     9/9/97                   17,310               8,060
060 Training of Youth in Wooden Handicrafts Industries 2  Giza    NGO   30109/96   30/11/97                  353,982             135,649
061  Training of Youth in Office & Computer Systems     Cairo      0    30/09/96   30/06/97                   187,570             85,013
062  Youth Training in Computers                        Cairo      V    22/10/96      1/V297                 400,000   _         400,000            1,990             1.1
063  Severance Payment for Al Ahram                     Cairo      PE    16/10/96   16/01/97                3,000,000           1,500,000       _              338
064  Egyptian Co. for Shipbuilding & Repair           Alexandria   PE    15110/96     1/9!97                2.058,000                       _
065  Dev. of Human Resources in Industrial Union        Cairo    NGO    7/11196   31/01198                   410,250
066  Mubarak-Kohl Students Training Outside Factories  Sharkiya   NGO   30/111/9    31/12/98                 360,000                                                 =
Total    -               J ________=                 r  _       1 4,000.000  158,772,818       1    23,048,954U  2.218|  2.816 |  1.960   2.5
Sponsoring Agencies: PE Public Enterprses. V GoveMment, MMinistnes, AGONongovemmental Org., G Govemorat, 0 Others



Table V-18: IDPProjects and Amount Contracted
Indicators                      1993      1994     1995      1996      Total
Number of contracted projects       23        12        1 1        2       48
Contracted amount (LE '000)     10,199    10,799    16,110   114,383   151,491
Disbursed amounts (LE '000)      4,03     13,476    15,518    98,648   131,76



Table V-l9: IDP Project Information
Status up to 31/12/96
Project Title                      J Contracted Amount Disbursed Amount]
CAPMAS                                                               3,478,000          2,103,000
NGOs & Targeting Studies                                                90,000            90,000
NGOs Conference                                                         30,000            30,000
Bio-statistics Study                                                    25,000            25,000
Workshops on Formulation of Policy Paper for the LMP                    25,000            25,000|
Consultation & Services for Improving Public Transport Services        357,000           357.000
Consultation & Studies for Fayoum Village Development Project           10,000            10,000
Consultation & Studies for River Nile Banks Protection & Community      11,000            11,000
Manpower & Labor Information Network for the Ministry of M&T         1,635,000          1,551,000
Sustainable Training Capability for Agricultural Project Analysis       80,000            80,000
FAFO International Association (Norway)                              2,958,000          2,969,000
Documentary Film Production (River Nile Banks Protection)               89,000            89,000
Social Safety Net Reform Study                                         106,000            55,000
Consultation & Studies for Dakahliya Public Works Project               31,000            31,000
Consultation & Studies for Menoufia Public Works Project                30,000            30,000
Reviewing SFD Activities                                                 5,000             5,000
Studies for the Projects of the PWP                                  1,150,000          1,127,000
Labor, Handicrafts & Small Enterprises Study                            21,000            21,000
Economic Agricultural & Livestock Maps Study                            45,000            19,000
Projects' Profile for Small Enterprises                                 45,000             7,000
Alexandria Transport Authority Study                                   200,000           200,000
Productive Activities for Women Settlers in the New Lands               50,000            50,000
Severance Payment Study                                                201,000           107,000
Qualitative Measurement for SFD Projects' Evaluation Criteria           30,000            30,000
Conferences                                                          3,750,000          3,354,000
Feasibility Studies for Small Enterprises                               19,000            11,000
Socio-Economic Study for Productive Families                            31,000            30,000
Studies for Enterprise Development Projects                          3,000,000          1,684,000
Studies for Community Development Projects                             500,000           387,000
Studies for Employment & Retraining Projects                           240,000           204,000
SFD Operations                                                      31,000,000         19,553,000
Studies for Institutional Development Projects                       1,000,000           364,000
SFD & Sponsoring Agencies' Training                                 11,000,000          9,197,000
Support of National Committee for NGOs at WSSD                         100,000           100,000
Support of National NGO Committee for Population & Development          51,000            51,000
Consulting Services for River Nile Banks Protection Project Phase II   645,000           410,000
Study of Women's Vocational Training - 3 NGOs in Ismailia               20,000            10,000
Priority Survey Study                                                  106,000           106,000
Causes of Failure of Handicrafts Subprojects                           200,000           200,000
Analytical Study of Small Existing Enterprises                          50,000            50,000
Priority Survey Study for Project in Luxor                              80,000            64,000
Study for Measuring Success of Eradication of Illiteracy Projects       50,000             50,000
Social Impact Profile                                                   55,000             55,000
ABB - Plastic Labels for Cows                                            63,000            74,000
Studies for SFD Project Fund Accountability & Compliance              2,500,000         2,413,000
Analytical Study for the Community Survey                                98,000            30,000
Social Promotion & Marketing of Small Enterprises                    16,000,000        14,897,000
Technical Secretariat                                                70,231,000        69,360,000
Total                           [       151,491,0001       131,676,00



Table V-20: Disbursements anrdJob OpportulitiesGeneratedBy the SFD in Upper Egypt Governorates
Status up to 31/12/96
Govemorate                Disbursements to Prolects By SFD Programs                               Total             Job OpporlLmurlies
or       Community        Enterprise     Employment e    InstitutIonal
Public Works    D Devopopment    Deveopment        Refratning    Development  (LE '000) ermanent  Tem            j    Total
Giza                      20,995           12,855           74,353           1,425           1,198   110,826        8,069       4,700      12,7
Beni Suef                 30,935            9,447          33,408               9            1,292    75,091        9,823       3,912      13,7
Fayoum                    21,165            6,112           49,081            129            1,134    77,621       13,172       5,838      19,C
Minia                     37,269           20,498           61,136            427            1297    120,627       12,957       6,590      19,5
Assiut                    40,318           19,305           32,233            230            1,302    93,388        8,191       7,529      15,7
Sohag                     54,264           17,780           50,926            260            1,329   124,559       10,295       7,470      17,7
Qena                      50,860           10,484           40,914            202            1,312    103,772       9,729       6,102      15,8
Aswan                     37,488           17,939           32,119            454            1,288    89,288       25,203       4,520      29,7
New Valley                 3,272            2,411            8,072              6            1,121    14,882        1,318        961        2,2
Luxor                                       1,353            5,989              5            1,185     8,532        1287         335        1,6
[Total                   296,506          118,             388,231           3,147j         12,4581   818,5862    100,044      47,9571    148,0



Table V-21: Disbursements and Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD in Cairo and Lower Egypt Governorates
Status up to 31/12/96
Govemorate                        Dlsburements to Projects By SFD Programs                        Total             Job Oppoftunities
Community        Enterprlse    Employment e   Institutlonal
Pub//c Works    Development    Development         RetrainIng    Development   a E  w)  Permanent  7emporry           7otal
Cairo                      8,044            9,027          105,629          77,117         29,978   229,795        15,516       8,013      23,5.
Qaliubiya                 12,855            6,410           39,445          16,448           1,139    76,297       11,006       3,826      14,8.
lexandria                  1,965            4,284           72,148          22,803           1,500   102,700       5,994        1,873       7,8i
Beheira                   14,020           14,271           47,318            403            1,209    77,221      12,458        5,936      18,3!
Menoufia                  26,109            9,506           67,320             10           1,163   104,108        9,984        6,623      16,61
Gharbiya                  24,954            6,589           57,035            686            1,238    90,502      15.694        6,375      22,01
Kafr El Sheikh            17,975            8,499           51,105            130           1,240    78,949       10,558        4,451      15,01
Damietta                  11,539            4,327           30,622            107           1,122    47,717        4,984        2,637       7,6;
Dakahliya                 25,072           12,902           86,473            472           1,152   126,071       21,158        6,780      27,9:
Port Said                                   4,294            8,247              9           1,121     13,671       1,248         818        2,01
Ismailia                   8,351            7,632           19,545            170           1,228    36,926        3,876        2,552       6,4:
Suez                       3,980            7,174           19,264              9           1,121     31,548       4,287        1,367       5,61
Sharkiya                  26,377           19,983           91,146           1,246          1,248   140,000       27,684        8,731      36,4
fTotal                   181,2411         114,8981         695,2971        119,6101         44.4591 1,155,5051    144,4471     59,9821    204,4:



Table V-22: Disbursements aod Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD in Border Governorates
Status up to 31/12/96
Govomorato                        Disbursoments to Projects By SFD Programs                      Total             Job Oppoitunlties
Community        Enterprise    Employment &    institutional
Public Works    Devolopnmen     Development       Reftalnlng    Development   flLE 0WJ  Permanent  Teprr              otal
Marsa Matrouh              4,120            5,576           6,889               8           1,125    17,718         820         303        1,1
North Sinai                3,900            2,566          12,622               a           1,121    20,217       2,734         573 3k3
South Sinai                                 1,534           6,210              7            1,121     8,872         495         12BJ      _ 6
Red Sea                    1,430             694           15,552             303           1,121    19,100       2,525         673        3,1
Toatal                     9,450           10,370          41,273             326           4,4881    65,907J     6,5741       1,677J      8,2
Table V-23: Total Disbursements and Job Opportunities Generated By the SFD iW All Governorates
Status up to 31/12/96
Govornorate                       Dlsbursements to Projects By SFD Programs                      Total             Job Opportunities
Communiy       Enterprlse      Employment A    Instiftutonal 1         f            I
Publi Works D* velo me DeDvelotment     Retanin    I Development  (LE 000J J Permanont I Temporay I   Total
!Grand Total             487,257|         243,452 _    1,124,8011         123,0831         61,4051 2,039,998     251,065     109,616     360,61



Fiare V-i: SFD Organizational Chart, 1996
Chairman of theExctvComfe
Board of Directors
Managing Director
Internal Audit
Targeting,
Evaluation &
Studies Unit
Legal Advisors
8. BOD Affairs
_  Projects &
Public Relabons                                          Planning
8 International  _
Cooperation    _                                     Management
-    Affairs                                 _    Information
Cr dit                                                         System
- ----~~~~-------- -----  -------------    
DG Of    DG of             DG of          PublicODG of                    DG of Finance,
Enterprise        Community           DG  of Public     Employment &        Administrabon
Development        Development                              Retraining        & Personnel
Rural              Social            Municipal            Social          Administration    Regional
Enterprise        Development          Services          Development         & Personnel     Ofices
HLarge |fProdu,ctivie                 Infrastructure      Resources            Finance
L Handicrafts |     Activites   |   g              |   | Development
Fund
Management



Figure V-2: Public Works Program Project Cycle
Project Technical           Sponsoring Agency
Proposal                 pnoigAec
_~~~~~~~Pbi 1ok rga
Preliminary Evaluation      Public Works Program
Sponsoring Agency& 1
Final Technical Proposal       psn _  P
Final Project Appraisal          PWP  / SFD
_paalCommitte
4-        -       SFD Board ot Directors
Funding Agency /
Donor
[ _     SFDI PWP      l
Legal Department
Faework Agreement 
Funding AgencyI                      -                    Sponsoring Agency
Donors_      _                                    I S          A
Project Mobilization         ponsorng    ncy
Intermediary Agencies
Monitoring & Evaluation                                       Studies / Private   1
PWP & SA      F           .   .           - .Consulting Office/ PWP|
9  Project Implementation   I       SA/IA/EA
Service Delivery
4--- -              O&M  SA/IAIEA
t   v
L  Sustainability  I



Fijure V-3: Public Works Program Project Management
SFD   _           - - - - - _      - - - --|    Sponsoring Agency
(Funding Agencies)
[    Project Bylaws                                         Steering Committee  J
[  Staff Appointment             Project Man
| Implementation Plan                                         Assistant Staff
Technical & Financial I
| Disbursement Schedule
Monitoring
Intermediary Agency           ntreiary Agency            Intermediary Agency
I Concerned Authority          NGOs, PVOs & CDAs                  Others
Executing Agencies
Local Private Contractors
Beneficiaries
Volunteers



FiRure V-4: Public Works Program Project Monitoring System
C                              ~~~~~~~~~~~SFD   C; A=
E                  FI
Regional Office                                               Evaluation
SFC)                              E,.___
Project Manager
H
H                              _   Intermediary Agencies
H                              Executing Agencies ;
A  Bi-weekly and monthly reports
B  Monthly, quarterly and periodic reports
C  Monthly, quarterly and annual reports, final report upon completion
D  Periodic reports
E  Review and comments
F Bi-annual evaluation and 3 months prior to completion
G  Periodic meetings and continuous communication
H  Random field visits to project sites and spot checks



Fieure V-5: Community Development Program Project Cycle
Responsibility of:                                   Function:
Sponsoring &/or Intermediary Agency              |   Project Proposal   |
<_             U(or Implementing Agency)                           Submitted
M                  depending on nature of project
O                                                                          I--I  I  I  R   P
n    <_             SFD Regional Office (RO)                        Review of Project
i                                                                       Proposal
t                                                   I   !  -                      -
0   4-       Community Development Program (CDP)               Stages of Project's Final Appraisal
r
<_  CDP                  _       Stage 1:
Preparation of Project Design
;  Sta-ge.2-
& ,         j              CDP & RO                            PreSappraisal
E              CDP & RO & Sponsoring/Intermediary              Stage 3:
v               Agency (Wor Implementing Agency)               Appraisal (Final)
a
I ;                    SF0 HD  & CDP                           Stage 4:
IFD HDQ & CDP                          Mlestones
jl          SFD Managing Director (Donor), CDP DG,                 Contracted Project
SFD Legal Dpt., RO, Sponsoring/ I                      Doctent
_           Intermediary / Implementing Agency, Media                  Document
0
1. SF0 HDQ (Finance Dpt. Donor Agency)              Project Implementation
<  2. CDP & RO                       10      & Financial
3. Intermediary / Implementing Agency                 Disbursements
Economic           Service
Activities        Delivery
Grants & Loans               Grants
4fr tn ainabilit       4 m
'Refei's to intemnal and external mnonitonng



Figure V-6: Community Development Program Project Management
SFD
(Funding / Donor Agency)
I
NGO Steering Committee
(or other i.e. Ministry, etc.)
Project Manager's
Staff Assistants              Main Tasks (TOR)
(Technical & Administrative)        NGO Project Manager      _        Project Bylaws & Monitoring
Staff Appointment
Work Plan
Disbursement Schedule &
Interim Evaluation
Monitoring
Final & Other Evaluations
Intermediary Agencies
AuthoritiesOteNGsItiuon
Executing Agencies
Freelance    l     lilrl
Consultants             Volunteers            Beneficiaries



Fizure V- 7: Employment and Retraining Program Project Cycle
I  Project Technical                        Sponsorin Agency
Proposal                }           Sponsoring Agency
Preliminary Evaluation |                         ERP
Appraisal Commttee                           SFD & ERP
mill                   m~~~~~~
i=  <    FrameworkAgreement |          | SFD Legal Department
l~~~~~
Implementation                       Sponsoring & Executing1
ClmplemjntatioC  -           |      ~~~Agencies    l
Monitoring (monthly,   ,                 Sponsoring Agency,
quarterly, annually)                        SFD & ERP
I
Final Evaluation  4                    ERP & Sponsoring
Agency



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
IBRD 27482
32-
~ E~M~tSS~JFC  Suez      ISRAE       JORDAN
C W EAIRO  Suez                 \                     'Se
ARAB REPUBLIC                                          i Suef
28~~~ I ~~O F           EGYPT                  El Minya &                                                   SAUDI
ARABIA 28
Ai *   N x      t                                         .Hurgha
j   0      50     100     SELECTED CITIES
j      NATIONAL CAPITAL
---'RIVERS
CULTIVATED AREAS
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES                                       O6
24                                                                                       n
0      50      100     150 MILES
. I    I                                                              ,        
0   50  100 150 KILOMETERS
|The bundaries, colors, denominations aid any other information shown on
thisemap`do notpy,onthepar of TheWorldBankGroup, anyjudgment                SUDAN
on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of  320                                 360
such boundaries.                                                                                               360
APRIL 1996



