Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9561-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
MAY 29, 1991
Population and Human Resources
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eguivalents
Currency Unit    Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1.00           LE 3.33 (April 1991)
LE 1.00          US$0.30 (April 1991)
Weights and Measures
1 km       0.62 miles
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABA            Alexandria Businessmen's Association
ATA            Alexandria Transport Authority
BCGC           Banking Credit Guarantee Corporation
BVS            Basic Village Services Project (USAID)
CAPMAS         Central Authority for Public Mobilization and
Statistics
CBA            Cairo Businessmen's Association
CS             CommuniLy Survey
CTA            Cairo Transport Authority
ERSAP          Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
ILO            International Labor Organization
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IS             Integrated Survey
LD-2           Second Local Development Program (USAID)
LMP            Labor Mobility Plan
MIS            Management Information System
NASCO          Nasr Automotive Services Company
NBD            National Bank for Development
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NUS            Neighborhood Urban Services Program (USAID)
PBDAC          Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit
PERL           Public Expenditure Rationalization Loan
PS             Priority Survey
PVO            Private Voluntary Organization
RSSE           Rural Small-Scale Enterprises Project (USAID)
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SA             Sponsoring Agency
SFD            Social Fund for Development
SME            Small- and Micro-Enterprise Project (USAID)
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
USAID          US Agency for International Development
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
AURA REU    C OFECj
SOCrAL FUND PROJECT
STAPF APPSAL RET
TABLE OF CONTNT
Credit and Program Summary ...............................................iii
I.    THE MACROECONOMIC SETTING ....................................        1
Overview ..........................1 ......................... 
Effects of the Gulf Crisis .........................                  2
Recent Policy Progress .........................                      2
Bank Support for the Reform Program .........................         4
Linkage of the Proposed Project to the Reform Program.                4
II.   THE SOCIOECONOMIC SETTING. 
Settlement Patterns and Urbanization Trends.                          5
Incidence of Poverty .....................................,.,.,,,,.. 5
Availability of Basic Services.                                       6
Social Security and Welfare Programs.                                 8
Informal Microenterprise Sector .10
Labor Mobility .10
Public Sector Administration ...................................,.11
Previous Initiatives .12
Lessons Learned .13
Bank Group Lending Strategy .14
III. THE PROJECT .16
Project Objectives .16
Summary Project Description .16
Detailed Project Description .18
Project Phasing and Status of Preparation .24
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS .25
Project Costs .25
Project Financing .....................                              26
Procurement .27
Disbursement .29
Special Account .....................                                30
Contracting Procedures .31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Egypt
in March 1991. Mission members were Robert Wildeman (mission leader), Bassam
Ramadan, Albert Peltekian, Anders Bjorgung, Alexandre Marc, Monica Fong (IDA);
and Warren Wiggins, Chris Southin, and Karl Jensen (Consultants). Messrs. Brett
Crawford and David Warren assisted in report preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
TALE OF CONTENTS (cout'd4
V.   MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ARR ANGEMENTS .......................... 31
Agency Responsibility .31
The Social Fund for Development (SFD) .                             32
Implementation Arrangements .33
Targeting .                                                         38
Cost Recovery and Sustainability .39
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting .40
Monitoring and EvaluatWon .........................                 40
Supervision ..............................................          41
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .41
Benefits .41
Risks .42
Environmen,cal Impact .42
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................... 43
ANNEXES
I.  BASIC SOCIAL SECTOR DATA IN EGYPT .45
II.   PROPOSED CHANGES TO LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCEDURES...........47
III.  ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS .53
IV.   LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .54



iii
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL_ UND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower             Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary          The Social Fund for Development
Credit Amount        SDR 105 million (US$140 million equivalent)
Terms                Standard IDA terms
Proiect Obiectives
and DescriRtion      As part of a continuing effort to ensure a social safety net
associated with economic reform in Egypt, and in response to the
adverse effects of the recent Gulf crisis, the proposed project
will be the first phase of an overall program aimed at
addressing the immediate and pressing needs of those most
vulnerable to the reform process, in addition to facilitating
the reintegration of Egyptian workers returning from Kuwait and
Iraq.   The proposed investments will focus on income and
employment generation activities, and the provision of essential
physical infrastructure and public services. The project will
also include efforts to strengthen the Government's capacity to
design and monitor future poverty alleviation policies and
programs, and will establish mechanisms to protect selected
target population groups (e.g., households that are dependent
on unemployed workers, or that are headed by women) from the
likely longer-term adverse social effects of adjustment.
Benefits             By supporting the establishment  of SFD,  the project will
contribute to protecting Egypt's most vulnerable groups,
including the Gulf returnees, from the negative social impacts
of the adjustment program and the Gulf crisis.   The primary
beneficiaries will be unemployed workers (including displaced
public enterprise employees and Gulf raturnees) and people
living in impoverished communities. Special attention will be
given to improvements in the economic and social situation of
women through increased participation in productive activities
and better access to basic social services. It is anticipated
that the Municipal Services Program will generate over 26,00
person-years of temporary employment in construction activit es
and close to 15,000 permanent job opportunities in operation and
maintenance activities.   It is also estimated that over 2
million persons could benefit through improved income,
conditions of living and access to basic services. Likewise,
significant benefits will be realized from the public transport
program through the improved access to productive activities it
will provide to impoverished segments of the Cairo and
Alexandria populations.    Under  the  Enterprise Development
Program, substantial employment opportunities will be generated



iv
and the development of private sector initiatives and
entrepreneurship will be stimulated and supported through an
estimated 70,000 microenterprises to be funded, thus helping to
reduce   Egypt's   overdependence   on   the   public   sector.
Furthermore, the establishment of labor mobility mechanisms will
allow the Governrent to deal more effectively with the
anticipated increase in unemployment resulting from the economic
and public enterprise reform measures. Additional benefits will
include (i) the strengthened capacity of sponsoring agencies to
design, provide and sustain income generation, nutrition, health
and education services for the poor, and (ii) the mobilization
of additional external resources for poverty alleviation
activities.
Risks                The main risk faced by the project is that SFD may be subjected
to political pressures that could force subproject choices
inconsistent with agreed selection criteria. To minimize this
risk, a subproject review process will be established involving
IDA approval of both the subproject selection criteria and the
framework agreements between SFD and sponsoring agencies; and
effective monitoring and auditing procedures will be developed
to ensure transparency in the operation of SFD and its
subprojects.   Selected subprojects will also be periodically
reviewed by IDA to ensure adherence to the procedures and
criteria. Closely related is the risk of weak or unsustainable
implementation, either because the related SAL is less
successful than contemplated in setting a policy framework to
encourage economic reform and private sector development, or
because of limited absorptive or institutional capacities, the
possibilities of which are increased by the absence of
comprehensive reform of the civil service and social security
systems (relegated to the next stage of the adjustment process).
Three project features are designed to mitigate this risk: (i)
specific selection guidelines, training and incentives will be
provided to ensure the abilities of SFD and sponsoring agency
staff to carry out the programs, and their dedication to do so;
(ii) technical assistance and training programs will improve the
institutional capacities of relevant government agencies and
finance feasibility studies to plan further related reform steps
and policy measures; and (iii) the project has been flexibly
designed to allow the reallocation of SFD funds from low-
performing activities to higher-performing ones. Finally, there
is a risk that the project will elevate the delivery of public
services above sustainable levels. To minimize this risk, all
public works and service improvements will be planned and
approved at the governorate level, in accordance with criteria
approved by IDA, and incorporated into framework agreements
between SFD and the governorates, ensuring that future recurrent
cost implications will be considered.   In addition, working
relationships between SFD and key government agencies will be
established (e.g., through the secondment of agency staff and
assignment of advisors to SFD) to help them develop and/or adapt
SFD programs that may merit subsequent bilateral or multilateral
support on an expanded scale. While the sustainability risk is
not expected to be completely eliminated by these measures, the
beneficial effe"ta of the repairs and new investments, combined



v
with the income distribution effects generated by the labor-
intensive construction methods to be used, would more than
compensate for this risk. Furthermore, the project will fund
an important expenditure review aimed at identifying and then
protecting the essential public services used by the poor. It
should be possible to apply the results of this study to the
enhanced services created under this project to enable their
sustainability.



vi
Estimated Project Costs
Local    Foreign    Total
-(US$ million)------
A.  Municipal Services                            165.1      52.5        217.6
B.  Public Transport                               10.0      40.0         50.0
C.  Community Development                          14.1      22.8         36.9
D.  Enterprise Development                         80.8      28.8        109.5
E.  Labor Mobility                                 68.1      13.9         82.0
F.  Institutional Development                       6.4       3.4          9.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                              344.6      161.4       506.0
Physical Contingencies                          18.8        6.9       25.7
Price Contingencies                             28.5       12.2       40.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               391.9      180.5       572.3
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan                                               To Be
Confirmed    Confirmed/    Total
Donors                           (US$)          (US$)        (US$)
IDA                                    140.0             --         140.0
European Community                      140.0            --         140.0
Government/USAID                         55.0            --          55.0
Arab Fund                                50.0            --          50.0
Kuwait Fund                              50.0            --          50.0
Switzerland                              10.0          20.0b/        30.0
Germany                                   --            30.0c/       30.0
Abu Dhabi Fund                            --            250.d/       25.0
Denmark                                   1.5            8.5k/       10.0
Canada                                    --            10.0f/       10.0
France                                                 10.09/        10.0
Sweden                                    --              .h/        10.0
Netherlands                               --             6.0"/         6.0
UNDP                                      4.0            --           4.0
Norway                                  ..L              -            2.0
Total                            452.5          119.5        572.0
a/  Pending donor final confirmatlon.
b/ Pending furher analysis of the project documentation.
c/  Pending furher analysis of the proect documentidion and the outcome of the Consuftaiw   Group meeting.
d/ Pending approval of the Govemment of the United Arab EmIratea
e/  Pending DANIOA appraisa of the proect.
t/  Pending CiDA apprisal of the propec.
g/  Pending furher anaysls of the proect documentatlon.
h/  P nding SIDA appraisa of the proect.
1/ Pending further analysis *f the project documentation.
Estimated Disbursements                            IDA Fiscal Year
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
----------------(US$ million)---------------
Annual                       6.0    28.0    36.0    40.0    26.0           4.0
Cumulative                   6.0    34.0    70.0   110.0   136.0   140.0
Economic Rate of Return :  Not applicable



ARAB REUBLI OF  G
SOCIAL FON  P1OJEi
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  THE ...J&QI=ECQ=g SETTIRQ
QemIm
1.01        Following almost a decade  of rapid economic  growth,  spurred by
increases in oil production and prices, expatriate worker remittances and foreign
aid, the Egyptian economy has more recently experienced slow growth as a result of
the collapse of world oil prices in 1986 and the leveling off of remittances and
foreign assistance. The downturn of the past five years has been exacerbated by
distortions in Egypt's economy and weaknesses in its balance of payments that were
obscured by the growth of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Notably, Egypt's economy
continues to be dominated by public sector companies, as a result of the widespread
nationalizations of the late 1950s and early 1960s. Despite the gradual resurgence
of private sector activities since 1973, over half of total GDP and about two
thirds of non-agricultural GDP are still produced in the public sector. In modern-
type manufacturing, the public sector share reaches 75 percent.
1.02        As the economy slowed down in the 1980s, the country became unable to
sustain its pattern of over-reliance on oil exports for foreign exchange against
a background of rapidly expanding imports, inefficient resource allocation and use,
and imbalances in sectoral growth favoring the service sectors. Since 1986, real
GDP growth has averaged less than 3 percent a year, inflation has averaged about
25 percent a year, investment has dropped sharply, per capita consumption has
declined in real terms, and external indebtedness grew to nearly US$50 billion (or
132 percent of GDP) by June 1990, with annual debt service obligations of US$6
billion (nearly half of foreign exchange earnings). Since the end of FY90, in the
context of measures taken during the Gulf crisis, the United States as well as a
number of Arab countries have forgiven some of their claims on Egypt amounting to
about US$13 billion.
1.03        The deterioration of the economic situation has had adverse social
consequences in terms of employment and standards of living. The growing budget
deficit and the rising cost of external debts have placed new pressures on
Government expenditures in an economy characterized by a predominant public sector.
The outcome has been a marked decline in the level of job creation in the public
sector, a pattern of wage compression for civil service employees, diminishing
public resources for the social sectors, and cutbacks in the food ration and
subsidy system. The slowdown of investment and output in the private sector has
had similar negative employment and income effects.  Since the beginnin,,; of the
recession in 1986, open unemployment, largely among recent graduates, has risen
rapidly, real wages have fallen in most economic sectors, and there are indications
that the poorest groups in the population have sustained an even further erosion
of their standard of living. The potential rise of poverty poses a major challenge
to Government in the light of its longstanding commitment to social progress and
equity.



2
Iffegta of the Gulf _Crisia
1.04        Concern has intensified in recent months as the effects of the Gulf
crisis have placed additional strains on Egypt's economy. It is estlmated that
the cost of the crisis will amount to about US$3.6 billion for calendar year 1991
(excluding the cost of refugee assistance), due mostly to reductions in worker
remittances, tourism receipts and Suez Canal fees. This corresponds to over 35
percent of the value of Egypt's exports of goods and non-factor services.  The
effect on the Government's budget will be less severe because the largest impact
occurred in the private sector (i.e., remittances and tourism).
1.05        The Government also faces the prospect of providing for the economic
and social integration of citizens who have returned from countries affected by the
Gulf crisis; some 380,000 workers and family members are estimated to have returned
so far, and this number could increase. Egypt traditionally has found it difficult
to absorb even the normal annual increment to the work force, which currently
comprises about 3 percent of the labor force. The downturn expected in 1991 from
the stabilization program threatens to further impede absorption efforts. It is
estimated that returning Gulf workers could now raise unemployment rates an
additional 3-4 percent. However, due to the absence of an accurate record of these
returnees and to the fact that most returnees have been reintegrated into society
(generally with the assistance of extended family networks), targeting specific
measures to the returnees is considered unfeasible, and thus the proposed project
will employ instruments that do not necessarily distinguish between beneficiaries
at the local level.
Recent PZlicy Progress
1.06        Confronted with a growing resource gap, the Government began in 1986
a series of corrective policy measures to reduce the budget and external account
deficits. The reforms included steps tc reduce both barriers to trade and price
distortions in the economy.   By increasing exports,  the Government hoped to
,ncrease access to foreign exchange and reduce its external debt.  At the same
time, by reducing price subsidies, the Government expected to encourage the
efficient use of resources and consumption of goods and services while also
reducing the budget deficit.   The Government's  economic  reform package was
supported in May 1987 by an IMF Stand-by Agreement and a Paris Club debt
rescheduling.
1.07        While the May 1987 Paris Club debt rescheduling provided some temporary
relief, it did not fundamentally improve the situation. Furthermore, in spite of
a sizeable reduction of the budget deficit and reforms taken in other areas,
Egypt's structural problems and substantial fiscal and balance of payments deficits
remained. In order to break out of economic stagnation and attain high sustainable
rates of growth, the Gnvernment has now decided to intensify and accelerate its
economic reform efforts. These new reforms, which are inprecedented in scope and
complexity in Egypt, constitute a break with the past and have the overall
objectives of modernizing the country and significantly improving current living
standards.
1.08        This new strategy is encompassed by the Government's far-reaching
Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP), which began
implementation  in March  1990.    Tht  measures  included  in  the  program  are
comprehensive and ambitious, and will be pursued in toto, with support from
multilateral agencies such as the IMF and the Bank/IDA.   The ERSAP focuses on
three areas: (i) stabilization to restore macroeconomic balance and reduce



3
inflation; (ii) structural adjustment to stimulate medium-and long-term growth;
and (,'.Li) efforts to minimize the adverse effects of economic reform on the poor.
1.09        The package of reforms, as proposed, will include increased autonomy
and efficiency of public enterprises, to be achieved by the closing of some
enterprises that are unprofitable and the privatizing of others. The reforms will
remove private sector entry barriers, such as investment licansing controls, and
will adjust the financial sector to improve access to capital.   Resource and
producer prices will be adjusted toward world price levels and delivery quotas
eliminated. Measures to liberalize foreign trade will be taken with emphasib on
the lifting of quantitative import restrictions, the rationalization of tariff
protection, and the removal of biases against exports.   Public spending growth
will be restricted by progressively reducing the Government's budget deficit.
Government subsidies to the transport sector will be limited, while public
investment will be reduced and targeted at core governmental responsibilities of
maintenance, renovation, and rehabilitation.
1.10        Of noteworthy importance is the anticipated financial sector reform.
In the past, financial repression has led to a number of distortions and problems
in the financial sector. Until early 1991, there were two major distortions in the
money markets: (i) nominal ceilings on all interest rates (well below expected
inflation); and (ii) credit rationing to curb the ensuing excess demand for credit.
In addition, the banking system is dominated by public sector banks, and, while the
present state of the bankiag system is difficult to fully and adequately assess,
there are some indications of severe problems.   In overall cermr, the lack of
adequate evaluation or provisioning of loans, especially those to public sector
enterprises, has raised fundamental questions about the solvency of the banks.
Some  specific  problems  have  included  inadequate  supervision  and prudential
regulation, deficient capital adequacy practices for the banks, very high foreign
currency  exposure,  excessively  high  loan  limits  to borrowers,  very  little
provisioning for doubtful loans, and widespread availability of overdraft
facilities extended to delinquent borrowers.
1.11        To remedy these deficiencies, the Government has already initiated a
number of actions under the ERSAP to produce a healthier banking system and more
efficient financial intermediation including, notably, the removal of all interest
rate ceilings for deposits and cre,its (together wich liberalization of foreign
exchange markets). On the institutional side, in the near term, and as a first
step supported by the IMF and technical assistance, improvements have begun to
strengthen the system of bank supervision and to reform the prudential regulatory
environment for the banks. Measures for the latter include: improvements in the
measurement of capital adequacy and their enforcement; changes in the regulations
concerning liquid asset ratios; improvements in the system of loan classification
and provisioning; better handling of interest for doubtful loans; a reduction of
loan limits for single borrowers; and tighter limits on fareign currency exposure.
A recapitalization of four public sector banks has also taken place through an
extraordinary budgetary transfer in FY90/91 to cover their foreign exchange losses.
Over the longer term, in addition to continued efforts to strengthen bank
supervision and prudential regulation, further recapitalization of the banks may
prove necessary to deal with contingent loan losses in their asset portfolios,
which are heavily weighted with  loans to public sector enterprises.   Also,
commercialization of the public sector banks, along with their possible
restructuring, is an objective of the Government's ERSAP.



4
1.12        To support the economic reform objectives of the ERSAP (para. 1.08),
an  IMF Stand-by Arrangement has been approved recently  to address  Egypt's
macroeconomic stability, while the implementation of structural adjustment policies
will, be assisted by a proposed Bank-supported Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
(Report No. P-5560-ECT), and social issues will be addressed, as a first step, in
the context of the proposed Social Fund Project to be financed by IDA and other
donors.
1.13        The proposed SAL has been conceived as the first in a series of
adjustment operations over the medium and longer term.  In particular, it will
support the implementation of ongoing reforms and will, through actions agreed
with the Government, help deepen reforms in the productive sectors cf the economy,
in the incentive framework, and in the overall management of the economy. It wil]
provide a sound economic framework within which Bank-financed and other projects
can contribute to further adjustment and return to growth. Moreover, the Bank's
financial contribution will come at a time when additional foreign exchange is
needed to make possible the level of imports necessary for the reform program to
succeed. This will help ensure the supply of capital and intermediate goods for
the productive sectors and increase the availability of critically needed consumer
goods.
Llokgge of the Proposed Project to the Reform r-oaram
1.14        The principal beneficial effects of the complete reform program, if
successfully implemented, will be to: (i) improve production and consumption
efficiency through an incretased reliance on market competition; (ii) expand import
capacity through increased foreign exchange earnings from exports; (iii) 1-mirove
the Government's fiscal cordition; (iv) reduce the public sector's prominence in
the economy; and (v) create conditions favorable to economic growth, particularly
for the private  sector.   Nonetheless,  given its present difficult economic
situation and depressed short-term outlook, Egypt can hardly avoid further
deterioration of its standard of living, especially a: the beginning of the
adjustment process.  Specifically, the proposed reform measures are expected to
adversely affect the Egyptian population in three ways. First, some wage-earners
will lose their employment or see their remuneration fall. S-%cond, standards of
living will likely suffer from declines in real income caused by changes in the
prices of goods and services (e.g., through increases brought about by price
liberalization measures, subsidy removal, or changes in output levels). Third, the
levels and types of benefits available to various population groups will diminish
as a direct consequence of budget cuts affecting the provision of public services.
1.15        Although the social costs associated with the reform measures will be
considerable, in terms of growing unemployment, depressed incomes and loss of
services, it is important to recognize that they would be even higher if there were
no comprehensive reform program. Without the reform measures, the Government would
lack the resources to pursue an adequate public investment F-pogram and would have
to reduce recurrent expenditures even further, including expenditures for social
services and food Eubsidies to the very poor.  Civil servants' salaries would
continue to decline in real terms at the rapid pace of the last five to six years,
and overall GDP growth would be even lower.
1.16        The creation of an effective social safety net associated with the
Government's agreement to undertake a reform program is critical not only to the
well-being of the Egyptian people, but also to the success of the reform effort.



5
Unless the Government can show that it is taking effective steps to protect the
poor, the population may be reluctant to tolerate and sustain the radical reforms
that are needed. During the identification of the SAL program, IDA was asked to
assist the Government in the preparation of a set of programs that will assist the
low-income population groups most directly affected by the structural adjustment
reforms. The proposed project will encompass a broad range of such programs aimed
at sustaining or restoring employment, incomes and essential services; it will also
conduct urgent studies and developmental actions to fill out the social safety
net with additional programs to enhance labor productivity and mobility, to
appropriately target remaining subsidies and to rationalize direct assistance to
the most needy.   The project will also allow IDA to take an active role in
responding to the Gulf crisis by facilitating the economic integration of Egyptian
returnees from iraq and Kuwait.   With its growing experience in social fund
operations in other countries and contexts, IDA can play a useful role in
supporting the establishment of the Social Fund for Development, and can act as a
catalyst to bring in substantial additional concessional financing from other
donors.
II. THE SOCIOECONOMIC SETTrNG
Settlement Patterns and Urbanization Trends
2.01        Egypt has the largest population and the second largest economy (after
Saudi Arabia) in the Middle East.  Its population is currently estimated at 53
million and is growing rapidly at 2.3 percent, or about 1 million people, per year.
By the year 2000, the population is expected to be at least 66 million, an increase
of about 13 million people. Because less than 4 percent of the country's total
land area of one million square kilometers is habitable, population pressure on
this land is severe, with average densities reaching 1,100 people per square
kilometer.
2.02          Rural population growth is far outstripping rural job creation
resulting in large-scale rural-to-urban migration. The urban growth rate is now
estimated to average 3.3 percent per year, compared to 1.6 percent per year in
rural areas.  While about 52 percent of Egypt's population still live in rural
areas, mainly close to the Nile, 25 million people now live in urban areas. In
fact, the country exhibits a striking degree of primacy, with about half of the
urban population, or over 12 million people, concentrated in Greater Cairo. Cairo,
the capital of Egypt, is not only the largest metropolitan complex in Africa and
the Middle East, but is also one of the dozen leading urban centers of the world.
Alexandria, Egypt's second largest city, has a population in excess of 3 million
people.   Recent data suggest that almost three fifths of the projected urban
population increase will occur in Greater Cairo and Alexandria, with little scope
for increasing rural absorption through land reclamation schemes or more labor-
intensive production on existing arable land.
Incidence of Poverty
2.03        Egypt's population has benefited from a comprehensive social welfare
system, created after the 1952 revolution, designed to provide minimum living
standards for all Egyptians.   For the most part, the system remains in effect
today, including rigid rent controls, subsidized food distribution, free education
and health care, as well as the provision of a wide range of other public services



6
at low cost. Partly as a result of these measures, the incidence of both urban and
rural poverty has declined and basic social indicators have improved in recent
years.  For example, during the period 1970-1987, crude death rates fell from 20
to 10 deaths per thousand; infant and child mortality rates declined, respectively,
from 179 to 60 and from 16 to 7 deaths per thousand; and life expectancy at birth
increased from 46 to 72 years. Similar gains have been achieved in the education
sector. The primary school enrollment ratio at age 6 rose from 72 percent to 90
percent between 1966 and 1986, while illiteracy declined from 71 percent in 1960
to less than 50 percent in 1986.
2.04        Despite the significant social progress of the last few decades,
however, poverty, unemployment and social hardship are far from being eliminated.
Many studies have documented the persistence of a serious poverty problem; the most
recent figures available indicate that poor households (defined as households with
a total monthly income less than LE 120) still represent between 20 and 25 percent
of the Egyptian population. Women and children are among the most vulnerable to
negative social impacts of adjustment. It is noteworthy that Egyptian women play
a critical role in determining household strategies to maintain family welfare.
Some of the burdens placed on women include maintaining family health and
nutrition, and supplementing family income to alleviate economic stress (or being
solely responsible for the economic welfare of households in which there is no male
breadwinner present). Children from poor families, in particular, lack protection
from malnutrition and preventable diseases; they have limited or no access to
schooling; and they are often put to work at a young age.
2.05        The incidence of poverty varies considerably across governorates.
Upper Egypt is the poorest region of the country, followed closely by the Kalyubia,
Gharbia and Menoufia governorates in the Delta region. In the rural areas, the
poor are either farmers with little or no land, or agricultural laborers. In the
cities, poverty is associated with industrial employment and services, including
a significant number of government employees; for the urban self-employed, poverty
is concentrated among persons engaged in low-skilled and marginal activities. A
summary of basic social indicators is included in Annex I.
Availability of Basic Services
2.06        Contributing to the persistence of poverty are major deficiencies in
the provision of basic services in almost every part of the country.   Only 65
percent of the population, for example, have direct connection to a public water
supply system, while less than half are connected to a public sewerage system.
Moreover, the country has no system of solid waste management in the sense usually
understood in industrialized countries. In most neighborhoods, families who desire
solid waste collection services make arrangements on an individual ad hoc basis
through a unique system of private brokers, for whom the main incentive to collect
the garbage is its recyclable value.  Because of this system, a rough-and-ready
type of sorting occurs at the pick-up points, and those items of little or no value
are discarded on the streets.
2.07        In many heavily built-up, low income sections of the country, there
are effectively no secondary roads, and where they exist they are often unpaved.
The lack of adequate surfacing exacerbates problems of solid waste removal,
emergency vehicle access, flooding, silting and blockage of sewer lines. Public
health problems in such areas are severe. Children, who usually go barefoot in the
dirt streets and alleys, are at particular risk. In some areas, conditions are so
bad that there is no access to public transport within a five square km area. The
absence of street-lighting in these high density areas adds further to the



7
difficulties of living there.   Such problems are strongly interrelated.   For
example, until the streets are reasonably surfaced and maintained, solid waste
collection vehicles cannot gain access to the houses.
2.08        There is also concern over the quality of public transport facilities,
especially in the two largest cities of Cairo and Alexandria. The Cairo transit
situation, for example, is characterized by extremely high ridership and a strong
individual dependency upon public transit as a mode of travel within the city. Bus
riders in both Cairo and Alexandria are overwhelmingly from the poorest income
groups.   Their dependency on public transport to provide access to employment,
education and other productive activities is nearly absolute, since there are
almost no viable transportation alternatives for these population groups.   The
Cairo Transport Authority (CTA) is the predominant provider of public transport
in Greater Cairo, notably for the lower income groups.  Its total vehicle stock
comprises about 3,000 buses, but, on a typical day, nearly 1,000 of these buses are
not available for service, primarily because of a chronic lack of spare parts. In
addition, passenger loadings on buses in operation are at near capacity levels,
with up to 2,100 passengers per unit per day.   Thus the phenomenon of high
ridership is further complicated by the shortage of assigned vehicles.   The
Alexandria Transport Authority (ATA) is characterized by similar problems.
2.09        Within the public transport sector, considerable financial reform is
needed, including revision of its pricing policies, in order to provide commercial
viability to the service providers. While this is a desirable objective, it is not
considered achievable in the short term, and so the proposed project does not
address this issue. This conclusion was based on the consideration that the public
has for years accepted that the bus companies provide a poor public service, with
overcrowded and badly maintained buses, at low fares; and the judgment that the
proper sequencing of measures would be to first raise services to levels that would
justify economic fares, rather than to first increase fares, which might risk
raising expectations of improved performance well beyond the capacities of the
companies to deliver. Choosing this strategy has the advantage that it avoids the
serious risks of either strong political reaction or of rescinding or failing to
follow through on the fares policy, thus severely damaging the credibility of the
companies and retarding the reform process.   Thus, the proposed project will
concentrate on improving the provision of public transport service as a precursor
to financial reform, options for which are currently being studied by an
international transport firm.
2.10        In the social sectors, the combination of rapid population growth and
contracting government budgetary resources has made it increasingly difficult for
the Government to sustain the present level of services. Notably, the health and
education sectors have struggled to keep up with the rapidly expanding quantitative
needs for their facilities, but have done so at the expense of the quality of the
services provided--resulting, in particular, in less resources for medical
supplies,  such as drugs, and educational materials,  including textbooks.   In
addition, there has also been a steady deterioration of the physical infrastructure
(hospitals, health centers, schools, etc.) due to a lack of funding for maintenance
and repairs.
2.11        There is concern that additional reductions in budgetary resources
might compromise further the coverage and quality of health and education programs,
especially in the rural areas, thus undermining the prospects for reducing existing
regional inequalities in the provision of medical and educational services, and
adversely affecting the bulk of the rural poor, whose levels of education and



8
degree of protection from preventable diseases are already much lower than those
of the rest of the population.
Social Security and Welfare Programs
2.12        The various existing social programs and transfer mechanisms (e.g.,
pension schemes for widows) do not constitute an adequate safety net to protect the
most vulnerable members of Egyptian society from the likely negative impacts of
economic adjustment policies, or even a very satisfactory base on which to build
an adequate system. The Government, for example, has no targeting mechanisms to
cushion the most vulnerable groups from the negative effects of food price
increases or reductions in supply under its rationing program. Similarly, in the
area of employment policy, there are no employment adjustment services,
unemployment benefits, or tailored retraining programs to assist the large numbers
of currently and soon to be unemployed in their job seeking and relocation.
2.13        The extensive food subsidy system currently in place, covering 93
percent of the population, has helped to provide food security, but at a heavy
cost in terms of the burden on the budget and market distortions. In addition,
some of the poorest households are not among the beneficiaries of the food ration
program. The Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA) handles transfer payments for long-
term pension support through schemes such as the Sadat Pension, which was
established in 1981 to target persons over 65 years of age (many of whom are women)
who were not well covered by other schemes.   However, MSA has not made any
assessment of the national need for such assistance, and it is estimated that the
national coverage of the poorest groups through government payment assistance
schemes is only about 20 percent. Furthermore, the total amount of funds available
for transfer payments is small, amounting to only LE 10 million in 1988/89, which
allows only extremely low levels of individual benefits to be provided. Although
the Government has recently increased its coverage by about 10 percent and the
average individual benefit by about one third (to a modest LE 57 per annum), the
situation is still unsatisfactory, since payments do not begin to approach adequate
subsistence levels and since the incentive to apply for such a low level of support
is not very high. In those respects, and in view of the shortfall in coverage, the
Government is clearly not meeting its objective of providing a basic safety net for
the poor. Both the persistence of poverty and the financial unsustainability of
present social policies of generalized subsidies, regardless of actual need or
merit, underline the urgency of designing appropriate targeting mechanisms
(underpinned by effective monitoring and information systems). This will make it
possible to ensure that subsidized resources reach the most needy groups, increase
the benefits to the targeted population and, at the same time, lower the cost of
the programs to the Government.
2.14        In addition, the real value of benefits received by retirees and others
insured through the general social security system is increasingly threatened by
management inefficiencies, underfunding, and the absence of mechanisms or means to
adjust benefits in response to inflation. The social security system is comprised
of a main scheme offering coverage to all government workers and most formal
private sector employees, and three other schemes covering the self-employed,
expatriate workers, and domestic servants and temporary workers. Benefits include,
in principle, a complete array of social welfare programs, including compensation
for old age, sickness, death, maternity, work injury and unemployment.
2.15        The administration of social security services is fragmented. Although
all programs are under the general supervision of the Ministry of Social Insurance,
they are actually implemented by three semi-autonomous organizations, the Social



9
Insurance Organization, the Insurance Pensions Organization and the Health
Insurance Organization, which cover old age, survivor and unemployment insurance
programs for private sector workers; old age and survivor programs for public
sector workers;  and health benefits  for all workers,  respectively.    It is
noteworthy that government workers are not covered by unemployment insurance.
Government contributions to the social security system amount to about one percent
of the payroll plus coverage of any deficit in the old age, survivor and
unemployment programs.   The Government does not make any contributions to the
sickness, maternity or work injury programs. Private sector contributions to the
system amount to about 40 percent of monthly salary up to LE 250, and about 35
percent of monthly salary over LE 250. The percenta&,e of contributions earmarked
for health insurance is very low. Other minor schemes exist to provide old age
and survivor insurance to the self-employed, the working poor, and expatriate
workers.
2.16        Benefits from old age and survivor insurance are quite similar across
all schemes, amounting to about LE 30 per month for government employees at the
bottom of the salary scale. Temporary workers and domestic servants receive about
LE 12 per month. Due to the lack of indexing, the effectiveness of social security
pensions as part of the safety net for elderly and dependent survivors has been
eroded by inflation in recent years. Unemployment benefits amount to 60 percent
of the last month's wage, and are paid for up to 16 or 28 weeks, depending on the
individual's contribution history. However, the unemployment insurance program
does not play a major role in the system, primarily due to the fact that the vast
majority of the unemployed are new entrants in the labor force who do not qualify
for benefits.
2.17        The Health Insurance Organization provides for curative care and
treatment of work-related injuries for insured workers. Its coverage is limited
to a small number of individuals within the general scheme of the social security
system; in 1988, it covered about 3.75 million individuals, of whom about 11,000
were dependents and 113,000 were pensioners and widows. Although about 85 percent
of government employees are covered by health insurance, only about 30 percent of
formal private sector workers are covered (due, in part, to the existence of
alternative plans fully paid by employers, and to the low quality of service
provided by tho Health Insurance Organization). Presently, the health insurance
system includes only 8 percent of the population.
2.18        The  sharp decreases  in real wages  in recent years  provides  an
indication of probably worse declines in the real purchasing power of pensions and
other social security benefits. The fact that employer and employee contributions
are already relatively high, as a proportion of wages, will make it difficult to
fund increased system expenditures.   In addition, the social security system's
financial health may face further deterioration as a result of the trend toward
increased borrowing by the central government, the low nominal rates of return
earned by the system's trust funds. and continued high inflation rates. Central
government inflationary financing, coupled with limited investment alternatives,
threatens to wipe out the system's reserves and its ability to comply with its
statutory future obligations when increased pressures on the system's finances are
likely to come from improvements in the life expectancy of beneficiaries and more
modern and costlier health care standards.   Finally, if measures are taken to
liberalize the labor market by removing restrictions on dismissals, and if more
workers become unemployed as a result of public sector restructuring, compensation
under unemployment insurance could become a major drain on the resources of the
social security system in the absence of offsetting measures.



10
2.19        The proposed project will immediately compensate for or address some
of the main deficiencies of the existing social services system by (i) focusing
small-scale, grassroots activities on the provision of basic health and education
services at the community level, and (ii) establishing a labor exchange mechanism
to facilitate labor adjustment services.   It will begin to address systemic
requirements through a set of studies that will serve as the first step in a
longer-term program to improve and expand existing social policies and safety net
systems, including direct transfer mechanisms. This process would be continued in
a possible follow-up social fund operation.
Inforaal MicroenteErKise Sector
2.20        There are about one million microenterprises (defined as employing less
than 15 workers and with fixed assets of less than US$10,000 excluding
land/buildings) in Egypt, constituting a large informal sector that encompasses
many at the lower end of the economic spectrum. These enterprises are particularly
vulnerable to the negative impacts of adjustment. However, at the same time, and
with proper support, they can respond rapidly and flexibly to opportunities, and
thus become an increasingly important source of income and employment generation.
Despite its importance, the informal microenterprise sector has largely gone
unrecognized by relevant government agencies and has been excluded from access to
established financial institutions and Government support services. Consequently,
small businesses and entrepreneurs often lack the necessary motivation and know-
how to expand existing enterprises or start new ones.  In addition, commercial
banks in Egypt have traditionally ignored small-scale, private enterprises in favor
of lending to larger, well-established organizations. The primary reasons cited
are (i) that small borrowers generally do not possess the collateral required to
qualify for financing, and (ii) that lending institutions are unwilling or unable
to expand their operations to include small businesses and entrepreneurs.
Accordingly, those microenterprises desiring to expand must resort to a range of
financing methods (supplier credit, savings associations, etc.) that are costly and
unpredictable.
2.21        Several promising pilot projects initiated by the Government, assisted
primarily by USAID, have identified and successfully tested ways for the formal
financial  sector to reach microenterprises.   The most critical  elements  in
achieving success with small credit schemes are (i) the delivery of technical
assistance, training and marketing services to enhance the willingness and capacity
of entrepreneurs and small businesses to begin or expand their operations, (ii) the
creation of innovative collateral arrangements, and (iii) the provision of credit
by lending institutions, at market rates of interest, directly to the clients
through one-on-one interaction and follow-up.
Labor Mobility
2.22        One consequence of the Government's economic reform program is an
expected increase in labor movement within the public enterprises sector and from
the public to the private sector.   The forces generating this increased labor
movement will be the proposed public enterprise reforms, privatization program, and
curtailed public expenditures.   The magnitude of the labor movement is hard to
predict.   One estimate indicates about 120,000 employees out of 1.3 million
employed in the public sector companies may need to move to private sector or self
employment over the next 2-3 years. Another estimate is for about 80,000 workers
to move from the public to the private sector every year.  While the estimates
differ, the policy implications for the Government are clear, i.e., there is a need
for a comprehensive set of measures to assist the public sector employees involved



11
in the transition, both for humane reasons and to ensure the success of the reform
effort itself.
2.23        All  parties  involved  in  Egypt's  economic  reform  program--the
Government, the workers, the donors and the multinational institutions--are very
concerned about the social costs involved in the transformation of the economy and
want to put in place an adequate assistance program suitable to the case. Such a
program will need to provide compensation to displaced labor in the form of
inducements for early retirement, lump -um separation benefits for voluntary
departures, retraining and job placement, counselling services, and/or unemployment
insurance/subsistence allowance for a fixed duration.
2.24         Compensation costs have been estimated to range from LE 2,000 to LE
6,000 per person (about US$500-1,500). Retraining costs are estimated to average
US$1,000 per worker.   A very preliminary analysis to estimate the costs of
redeploying and training about 60,000 workers from public sector to private sector
on a voluntary basis  suggests  expenditures  of about US$80 million.    Such
expenditures will be well justified in terms of the alleviation of the human
suffering otherwise likely, and to help increase productivity and growth in the
economy.
Public Sector Administratiou
2.25        For administrative and planning purposes, Egypt is divided into twenty-
six governorates (each headed by a Governor appointed by the President) and eight
plarnning regions. At the governorate level, there are both national ministerial
departments staffed with central ministry personnel and governorate departments.
Ministerial departments are mainly responsible for the provision of social services
such as primary and secondary schools; hospitals and health clinics; training
centers; day care centers, etc. Governorate departments, on the other hand, are
responsible for various physical services, including construction, repair and
maintenance of streets and sidewalks; street cleaning and public lighting;
operation and maintenance of sewage collection and disposal systems; water supply
and fire protection. Governorate departments are also responsible for public works
and development approval, building regulation and enforcement, and issuance of
building permits and licenses for industrial or coamercial uses.
2.26        Recent Government initiatives have partially resolved the systemic
problems associated with such dual administrations, notably through the amendment
by the Peoples' Assembly in 1980 of Law 52 on the local government system. This
gave governorates administrative responsibility for the planning, design and
implementation of investments within their jurisdiction.  However, control over
fiscal management, taxation, regional and national planning remains with the
central Government, so that the administration of the governorates is still closely
linked to national policies.
2.27        The Governor has total responsibility over the governorate departments
and administrative responsibility over the ministerial departments within the
governorate.   He approves the appointment of governorate department heads and
appointments to all ministerial department positions.  Ministerial departments,
however, are responsible to their respective ministries for all technical matters.
2.28        Although government and NGO programs to promote poverty alleviation,
employment creation and social development have been wide-ranging and of
significant benefit to numerous population groups, several factors contribute to



12
the current system's inability to design, implement and sustain a comprehensive
approach to the social problems facing the country.   Such factors include the
inadequate institutional capacity of the system, the apparent lack of cooperation
between participating agencies, the inappropriate identification of target
beneficiaries, and the lack of linka6es between assistance measures and long-term
development strategies.  These problems are exacerbated by a complex system of
public sector management, in which many central government ministries and local
governorates either lack clear mandates or have overlapping responsibilities.
Moreover, civil service regulations are not conducive to development or even to
efficient management at current levels of development.   This issue has been
identified as one to be addreBssed in the context of future Bank/IDA lending
operations.
Previous Initiatives
2.29        In the last ten years, several initiatives to support social sector
development and a Government decentralization policy have been attempted through
various investment programs financed by a variety of international agencies.
Previous Bank/IDA-supported social sector operations in Egypt include six credits:
two population projects (Crs. 437 and 850), three education projects (Crs. 681, 868
and 1069), and one urban development project (Cr. 831); and four loans: two
vocational training projects (Lns. 2264 and 2594), one engineering and technical
education project (Ln. 3137), and one urban development project (Ln. 2176). The
Bank has also financed several agricultural credit operations, including two agro-
industry projects (Cr. 988 and Ln. 2243), and three line-of-credit projects for
small- and medium-scale enterprises and export and construction businesses,
respectively (Lns. 2458, 2459 and 2460). While these line-of-credit loans include
institutional development components and technical assistance, they do not provide
funds for microenterprises.   Recent sector work is contained in a Bank report
entitled Poverty Alleviation and Adjustment in Egypt (Report No. 8515-EGT). The
major recommendations of this report, as well as lessons from experience under past
and ongoing operations (paras. 2.35-2.36), were incorporated into th% design of the
proposed project,
2.30        A wide range of social action programs, including a small but rising
amount of income generation activity broadly directed at the poor, are being
assisted by non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which include private sector
professional associations and institutions as well as nearly 12,000 private
voluntary organizations (PVOs), of which about 9,000 are welfare-oriented and 3,000
are development-oriented.   Of the PVOs, only a small percentage operate at the
national level; the remainder are smaller organizations scattered throughout the
country, with a disproportionately large number located in the Cairo governorate.
Services offered by welfare PVOs typically include direct assistance to
disadvantaged individuals such as widows, orphans, and the mentally and physically
disabled, while those offered by development-oriented PVOs focus on income
generation and productivity enhancement activities.
2.31        Local  PVOs  are  of critical  importance  in  conducting  grassroots
development initiatives.   The network of PVOs in Egypt is broad and covers all
governorates with, however, a larger concentration in urban areas and in particular
in greater Cairo. Though few local PVOs have the technical capacity to undertake
subprojects successfully by themselves, they have implemented a variety of
innovative community development programs sponsored by regional, national and
international PVOs, as weli as international and bilateral development agencies and
government institutions. Managen.ent support and technical assistance to local PVOs
to strengthen their institutional capacity to carry out and expand in'tiatives will



13
be  a focus  of the proposed project.    More  detailed descriptions  of these
organizations and their activities are provided in the project file.
2.32        Among other donors, USAID is particularly active ,n supporting several
important initiatives directly linked to the proposed project, notably, the Basic
Village Services project (BVS), three Decentralized Development projects, the
Neighborhood Urban Services Program (NUS), the Second Local Development Program
(LD-2),  and three credit operations  for microenterprises.    As part of the
Neighborhood Urban Services Program (NUS) (completed in 1986) and the Second Local
Development Program (LD-2) (still under implementation), assistance was provided
on both a retropolitan and a nationa'l basis, mainly through the local governorates
and private voluntary organizations (PVOs).   More than 1,000 subprojects were
undertaken, covering basic infrastructure (water, sewerage, sclid waste, street
repair, street lighting and public markets), education (classroom;, skills centers,
multipurpose centers), and health care (hostels, nurseries, o1teputient facilities
and handicapped facilities).
2.33        The USAID programs were innovative in that they were integrated into
the decentralized public service effort and were supported by significant technical
assistance programs available to all levels of local government, from individual
activity levels in nei,hborhoods to policy level equivalents. In this connection,
three free-standing cor.sultancies (urban, rural and credit) were established and
designed to conform to a common strategy--one that clearly placed the onus on local
organizations and their staff to be responsible for the implementation of the
locally selected basic service projects. These consultancies, which are still in
place and will also support the proposed project, include resident teams of urban
development, local government and credit specialists, engineering advisors,
sociologists, trainers, and finance and budget experts.   Technical inputs have
included specialists in needs assessment, solid waste management, equipment
maintenance, micro-enterprise development, and privatization. The cu-rent umbrella
contracts of the consultancies will be in effect until the end of 1992, at which
time, in the context of the project's first annual review, it will be determined
whether and at what scale they will be extended.   Should USAID decide then to
discontinue funding the consultancies, the funding would likely be taken up by SFD.
2.34        USAID has also piloted efforts to direct badly-needed credit assistance
to microenterprises in Egypt through its Small- and Microenterprise (SHE) and Rural
Small-scale Enterprise (RSSE) projects, and through the establishment of the
Banking Credit Guarantee Corporation (BCGC).  These operations are directed at
small businesses throughout Egypt that specifically lack the collateral required
by commercial banks or whose loan requirements are smaller than those generally
served in a system of controlled and artificially low interest rates. All three
of these programs are in early stages of implementation, but initial indications
are that substantial opportunities exist for the expansion of these types of
operations.
Lessons Learned
2.35        The principal lessons learned from previous initiatives relate to the
nead to overcome the institutional and procedural impediments to project
implementation that are endemic throughout Egypt.   Among other things,  these
hindrances have involved shortages of adequately trained implementing personnel,
overregulation of project execution mechanisms, poor decision making channels
resulting from the confusing bureaucracy of Egypt's public sector, and
inappropriate restrictions on procurement and hiring decisions.



14
2.36        The proposed project aims to avoid the pitfalls of earlier initiatives
in Egypt by placing itself under the auspices of a newly created, semi-autonomous
apex agency, the Social Fund for Development (SFD), which has been accorded
recognition as a high priority institution with easy access to the top political
levels in the country and with a broad license to set its own operational policies
and  procedures.      To  ensure  sufficient  technical  expertise  for  project
implementation, SFD will be staffed by highly qualified persons, and local and
foreign technical assistance will be contracted to provide both long-term
evaluative and advisory support to SFD and appropriate training for personnel of
other agencies participating in the project.
Bank Group Lending Strateey
2.37        Bank/IDA assistance strategy has been des4-ned to help the Government
develop a comprehensive reform program, and to provide financial resources to
support such a program. In consideration of the Government's commitment to, and
implementation of a comprehensive reform program, the Bank will significantly
increase its lending over current levels, consisting both of a series of adjustment
operations as well as investment lending. Bank strategy will also aim at helping
to mobilize the donor community to provide financial backing, both in terms of
fast-disbursing support as well as project financing.
2.38        The proposed adjustment loans by the Bank include support for policy
reforms initiated under the first SAL.   Such lending operations focus on key
macroeconomic issues, institutional reform, and major sectoral policy issues.
Depending upon sequencing questions, the progress of reforms initiated under the
SAL, and the emergence of problems relating to the structural adjustment process,
the Bank will tailor its lending program, and individual lending operations, to
best foster the economic reform process in Egypt. Possible adjustment loans may
include a public enterprise reform loan and follow-up SALs or SECALs and a trade
policy and financial sector Loan.  Tnese fast-disbursing adjustment loans will
average about 40 percent of the Bank's total lending to Egypt in the next few
years.
2.39        In the investment lending areas, the Bank Group program will focus on
projects which: (i) increase exports and promote efficient import substitution;
(ii) improve capacity utilization; (iii) resolve key bottlenecks to development;
and  (iv)  promote  employment.    In  general,  Bank  investment  projects  will
concentrate, whenever possible, on rehabilitation, maintenance, cost recovery and
institution building.  Import4nt objectives in overall Bank lending will be:  to
promote private sector participation; to reform the over-burdened and inefficient
public sector; and to better manage Egypt's scarce water and land resources while
protecting the environment. In a country that relies as heavily as Egypt does on
limited water and arable land resources, as well as on tourism, environmental
issues are of critical importance. Another important objective of the Bank/IDA
lending is the enhancement of Egypt's human resources, through lending in health,
education, water supply/sewerage and social programs. The Social Fund will provide
a safety net for those groups most vulnerable to the effects of the reform and will
also help to rationalize the labor market and stimulate employment through the
development of small enterprises and the implementation of labor-intensive
investment projects.
2.40        During the past five years,  the Bank's  ESW has concentrated on
structural issues, such as trade strategy and investment planning, public sector
enterprise reform, the public investment plan and the macroeconomic adjustment
program, with attention to key support sectors, such as technical education and



15
transport. Over the next two years, the proposed ESW will focus on the preparation
of a review of the public sector investment program under the adjustment scenario,
a financial sector review, and reviews to assist the Government's efforts to
enhance private sector development.
2.41        In the agricultural sector, the Bank development strategy emphasizes,
primarily, the improvement of the efficiency of the agricultural resource base
through improved/rehabilitated infrast-ucture and improved capacity utilization,
and, secondarily, an expatision of the agricultural area through reclamation. This
strategy recognizes that constrained water and land resources are the greatest
limitation to further agricultural development in Egypt. Egypt exports about 25%
of the world's traded extra-long staple (ELS) cotton.   The country enjoys a
comparative advantage in the production of this very high value commodity.  To
assist in maintaining Egypt's comparative advantage, the Bank Group is discussing
with the Government possible assistance to help rehabilitate cotton processing and
other marketing infrastructure.
2.42        Crowth in Egypt's industrial sector halted batween 1981 and 1989, with
ground lost in the export markets.  Given that public sector enterprises still
account for a considerable part of value added in the sector, their improved
performance is essential for growth during 1991-93. Measures are needed to induce
both domestic and international competition, by allowing private sector entry in
activities competing with existing (private and public) producers and eliminating
favorable treatment for public enterprises (para. 34). The Bank's SAL will address
these and several other objectives. A private sector regulatory environment study
will be undertaken by the Bank this summer to recommend actions to create a more
friendly environment for the private sector in Egypt.
2.43        In the transRort sector, the Bank's priorities are to increase capacity
utilization, improve operation and maintenance practices, promote appropriate
pricing, and strengthen the existing institutions. Certain of the necessary policy
changes, such as the phasing out of subsidies inherent in rail and intercity bus
and truck tariffs, and the cross subsidization of intracity bus tariffs to keep
them within reach of the poorest segments of the population, are being addressed
through the proposed SAL and the Social Fund Project.   In updating its 1988
Transport Strategy, the Bank will focus on progress made with the financial
restructuring of land transport organizations and port capacity utilization.
2.44        In the tourism sector, the Bank's emphasis will be on ensuring the
timely availability of required infrastructure to support tourism development, in
particular on the Red Sea Coast; on avoiding environmentally detrimental
investments; and on protecting Egypt's archeological heritage through adequate on-
site management. In the urban development sector, the primary objectives of the
Bank strategy will be: (i) enhancing the effective administrative and financial
management of urban centers; and (ii) improving land-use patterns and finding
solutions to problems plaguing the housing sector, such as the limited availability
of formal finance, rent controls, and insufficient affordable serviced land. To
understand better the urban and financial management of the cities, an urban sector
study will be undertaken.
2.45        In the water suDDlv and sewerage sector, the main Bank objectives will
be:  (i) to improve cost recovery by introducing adequate tariff levels with a
progressive structure; (ii) to preserve existing assets by introducing better
maintenance and operating practices; (iii) to increase water supply and sewerage
coverage and quality (particularly for the urban poor); and (iv) to expand was:.,
water treatment to combat water pollution.    A Bank sector review will aim a4



16
assessing current sector performance; identifying the main constraints preventing
more efficient,  accelerated development;  elaborating,  with the Government,  a
program of sector reform; and defining a strategy for future Bank support for the
sector.
2,46        In the social sectors,  the Bank will promote an integrated human
resources and social developmenc strategy to support the Government's efforts to
have a highly trained labor force to improve the productivity of the economy and
to sustain its long-term growth. Such a development strategy may include, Inter
alia, policies (i) to deal with rapid population growth; (ii) to improve the
quality, efficiency and equity of health and education delivery systems in a
financially constrained environment; (iii) to increase the relevance of the
technical/vocational education and training system by promoting a closer
relationship between training institutions and employers and making the training
system more responsive and better adapted to the needs of the economy; (iv) to
alleviate Egypt's continuing poverty problem, including assistance in the creation
of a sustainable soc- al safety net;  (v) to give prominence to environmental
concerns that directly affect the health and safety of the population; (vi) to
promote resource mobilization and cost recovery; and (vii) to integrate women more
fully into the development process, notably by improving their access to basic
social  services  and participation  in productive activities.   The Bank will
undertake a women-in-development sector study to contribute to the Bank's
understanding of the issues affecting women in Egypt.
2.47        Possible Bank/IDA lending operations over the next few years,  in
addition to the proposed adjustment loans noted above, include projects in
agriculture (National Drainage, West Nubaria Agriculture Intensification,
Agricultural Mechanization); energy/industry (Gas Investment, Kureimat Energy
Development, Industrial Pollution/Energy Conservation); infrastructure (Railways,
Tourism/Privatization); and population/health/nutrition (Social Fund, Health).
III. THE PROJECT
Prolect Objectives
3.01        The project's main objective is to reinforce the prospects of success
of the reforms to be undertaken and supported by the Government's ERSAP, through
measures that will (i) initiate, stimulate and enable a program of actions that
will help soften both the initial adverse effects of the reform process and the
negative impacts of the Gulf crisis on Egypt; and (ii) establish mechanisms to
protect selected target population groups (e.g., displaced public enterprise
workers, households headed by females and unskilled and semi-skilled unemployed
workers) in Egypt from the likely longer-term adverse effects of adjustment.
Project ConceRt and Summarv Description
3.02        In line with this objective, the proposed project will support a set
of core programs, comprising numerous small subprojects, that will (i) in the short
term, address the immediate and pressing needs of target groups, and (ii) in the
medium term, strengthen the Government's capacity to design and monitor poverty
alleviation policies, and help promote the institutional capacity to develop and/or
modify new or existing social programs, including safety net programs. This will
serve as a first step toward the emergence of a modern and efficient social



17
security system, to be supported by future interventions, including a possible
follow-up social fund operation.  The proposed project has thus been explicitly
designed, in the first instance, around income and employment gene-ating activities
rather than as a major expansion of existing poorly targeted and L efficient direct
assistance schemes.  The core programs have been selected and appraised on the
basis of their ability to respond quickly and substantially to the demonstrated and
anticipated income, employment and essential public service needs of disadvantaged
Egyptians (Chapters I and II), within the estimated absorptive capacity constraints
of their relevant sectors.   Systemic problems in these sectors, which act to
fundamentally constrain sector capacity and efficiency, are being addressed
separately through other sector investment operations,  Given the likelihood of
additional fundint, by some donors, core programs could be expanded in size and
scope, within the context of the proposed operation, in response to changes in
Egypt's situation affecting the absorptive capacities for the programs.   All
financing provided by SFD will be incremental to normal Government budgetary
allocations.
3.03        Specifically, the proposed project will comprise the six core programs
described below:
(a)   the Provision of Essential Municipal Services program will help improve
and maintain essential public services at the local level in the face of budgetary
contractions, and provide employment opportunities for disadvantaged Egyptian
workers.   The program will entail numerous small, labor-intensive public works
subprojects carried out by local, private contractors with local labor, including
investment activities (construction and rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage
systems, streets and roads, etc.) and maintenance activities (cleaning of canals
and buildings, solid waste collection, etc.). Priority will be given to areas with
high poverty incidence and unemployment rates, thus creating income earning
opportunities and providing basic services for many of the poor who are most
vulnerable to the negative impacts of the adjustment process (US$255 million);
(b)   the Improvements to Essential Public Transport Services program will
finance the purchase of spare parts and vehicles for the two existing metropolitan
bus companies (Greater Cairo and Alexandria) in order to improve the crucial role
of public mass transportation in bringing together, especially for unskilled low-
wage workers, locationally mismatched demand and supply for labor (US$53 million);
(c)   the Community Development program will include improvements in basic
and primary health care provision, immunization programs, mother and child
nutrition programs, child care center upgrading, short-term literacy and practical
training programs, and a variety of self-help productive activities implemented by
participating local community groups, thus ensuring extended coverage of these
essential services among the poorest and most vulnerable groups (US$42 million);
(d)   the EnterRrise Development program will fund the delivery of integrated
packages of technical assistance, training and credit to assist (i) returning
workers in establishing small enterprises, (ii) unemployed people in starting up
productive activities, and (iii) existing small enterprises in expanding/extending
their businesses and creating new jobs. Loans will be at market rates and will use
existing financial intermediaries (US$120 million);
(e)   the Labor Mobility program will establish and activate mechanisms to
facilitate redeployment of workers displaced by public enterprise reform.
Assistance provided will include appropriate selections of the following:
counseling, (re)training, placement, compensation, and technical and other support



18
to promote the redeployment of such workers to growing industries and the
development by them of productive, income-generating activities (US$91 million);
and
(f)   the lnstitutional DeveloDment program will finance the administrative
and operating costs of SFD, training and technical assistance for project
implementation, and surveys and studies to strengthen SFD's targeting, monitoring
and evaluation systems, inclutding the development of enhanced r'-echanisms for: (i)
better targeting of subsidies, (ii) protecting essential public services used by
the poor, and (iii) improving the efficiency of various direct transfer schemes,
as a first step in assisting the Government to rationalize its social assistance
programs (US$11 million).
3.04        The proposed project has,  in part,  been designed to expand and
replicate existing programs, and will be implemented under the auspices of a newly-
created apex agency, the Social Fund for Development (SFC), which will serve as
a mechanism to mobilize international and local financial resources.   SFD will
select and appraise subprojects for funding, and supervise their implementation
according to evaluation procedures, methodologies and criteria agreed with IDA.
Subprojects will be proposed and implemented by sponsoring agencies (SAs), which
may  be  ministries,  governorates,  financial  institutions,  non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) or local community agencies. To allow for a rapid start in
project activities while retaining flexibility in the nature of subprojects to be
financed over the life of the project, some but not all of the subprojects to be
financed under the programs have been specifically identified during the project
preparation process.
3.05        In order to ensure effective targeting of benefits, SFD will provide
guidance to SAs in developing subproject proposals.   At first, the targeting
approach used wil.l of necessity be rough, but as results from surveys identifying
the extent and location of vulnerable target groups become available, more
precision will be gained.  In addition, the programs are designed to encourage,
whenever practical, participation by beneficiaries iTI subproject conception and
execution--the  harnessing  of  community  initiatives  will  be  considered  an
indispensable supplement to the activities of public agencies.
Detailed Prolect DescriRtioa
3.06        Provision of Essential Municipal Services Cestimated cost: US8255
million). This program will build upon earlier operations through an assortment
of numerous, small, labor-intensive public works subprojects based in areas where
concentrations of vulnerable target groups and Gulf returnees are high (marked by
high poverty incidence and unemployment rates), in order to improve the living
environment (broadly defined) in those areas and sustain those improvements through
maintenance activities. Projected activities to be carried out by local, private
contractors with local labor include improvement of rural roads (US$72 million),
solid waste disposal (US$33 million), water supply and sewerage improvements (US$75
million and US$39 million, respectively), landscaping (US$14 million), dredging
and cleaning of irrigation canals (US$7 million), and building refurbishment in
historic districts of central Cairo (US$15 million).
3.07        Priority target areas (e.g., satellite villages) will be selected
based on a targeting map devised by SFD, and the amounts of financing extended
will be weighted according to the relative poverty rankings of each governorate.
It is envisaged that during the initial phase of SFD activities, implementation of
this program likely will be limited to the sample governorates of Menoufia and



19
Qena and to the unsewered areas of Greater Cairo, although subprojects in other
governorates that have already been prepared and are ready to go out to tender
will also be included.   In this way, SFD will be able to develop both its own
capabilities and public awareness of its efforts progressively through the end of
the first year of implementation. At that time, eligibility for financing under
this program will be extended to the remaining governorates; and funds will be
channeled in conformity with the targeting mechanism described above.
3.08        Ingrovments to Essential Public Transport Services (estimated cost:
VS853 million). Public transportation plays a crucial role in urban labor markets
for unskilled low wage workers, bringing together locationally mismatched demand
and supply for this type of labor services. Encouraging the use of public mass
transportation also has the beneficial impacts of reducing congestion and air and
noise pollution.   This program will finance direct imports of essential spare
parts and manufacture of public transport vehicles for the bus fleets of Greater
Cairo and Alexandria. Anticipating an increase in the rehabilitation capacities
of the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA) and the Alexandria Transport Authority (ATA)
from the current level of 300 buses per year to a level of 900 buses per year, the
cost of spare parts for one year of operations is expected to be US$43 million.
In addition, 250 new buses for CTA will be financed at a cost of US$10 million.
3.09         Given the project's emphasis on maintenance of essential public
services, and the certain benefits that will be realized from it by the poor
inhabitants of those cities, financing will essentially be aimed at assisting the
bus companies to develop an improved level of service as a first step in a program
of institutional reform and financial viability for the bus companies (which
ultimately could also include substmntial fare increases). Potential expansion of
the size and scope of this program in response to the availability of additional
(parallel) financing is not envi,!i v:ed in the short term due to the absence of an
adequate pricing policy reform pta!i (currently being studied by an international
transport firm).
3.10        Communitv Develoment Irogram (estlmated cost: USS42 million).  This
program will finance community de ->lopment subprojects directed at vulnerable
target groups through the mobilizati.,  of local grassroots community initiatives.
Specifically, two types of initiatives are included: (i) productive activities
focusing on income and employment generation; and (ii) social development
activities to improve the delivery of t-sential community services.
3.11        Productive activities to be flnded under the project will include new
and existing income generating schemes, involving the establishment of small
revolving funds for self-help productive activities, and related training in
management  and  productive  skills.    Management  support  to  strengthen  the
institutional capabilities of private voluntary organizations (PVOs) in carrying
out productive activities will also be prcvided.   Examples of such activities
could include: small animal husbandry, horticultural production, food processing,
handicrafts, and informal urban sector consumer delivery services.
3.12        Credits will be used only for working capital and equipment purchases,
and will range in size from LE 500 (US$150) to LE 2,000 (US$600). The average loan
size will be LE 1,000 (US$300). Under guidelines established by the Ministry of
Social Affairs, interest on credits under this program will begin at 10 percent
p.a. and will be progressively increased to aitarket levels by the end of the
project's lifetime. Repayment schedules will vary depending on the size and use
of the credit,  with two years being the typical  time allowed.   Collateral



20
requirements will be flexible, allowing security in the form of personal or group
guarantees, or hypothecation of assets financed.
3.13        Social development in1-iatives will fund, on a selective basis, and for
specific target populations, cummunity-based social development activities,
primarily in the health and education sectors. Health activities to be considered
for funding would include: (i) provision of supplies, equipment and personnel for
primary health care centers; (ii) immunization campaigns; (iii) mother and child
nutrition programs; and (iv) provision of supplies and equipment for child care
centers.  Education activities would include: (i) short-term literacy programs;
(ii) practical training programs; and (iii) community organization and leadership
training.   There will be coordination with the sectoral ministries during the
preparation and implementation of these activities to ensure that proposed
subprojects are consistent with sectoral strategies developed by the responsible
ministries, and eventually to have ministries take over an appropriate
responsibility in the execution of programs which grow from successful subproject
experiences.
3.14        Social development subprojects will have a maximum value of LE 15,000
(US$5,000), with an average of LE 10,000 (US$3,000). Funds will be provided in
grant form to the subproject implementing agencies.
3.15        In both the productive activities and social development initiatives,
income generating and micro-credit schemes involving the participation of women
will be given funding priority; the representation of women on PVO boards will
also be encouraged. Further, the funding of social development activities will
be highly selective and well targeted, based on criteria acceptable to IDA, since
the demand for such funding is anticipated to exceed SFD delivery capabilities.
3.16        The cost of the community development program is expected to be divided
equally  between  productive  and  social  development  activities.    Investment
expenditures on equipment, supplies and lines of credit will constitute about 75
percent of the total, while management support and recurrent expenditures will
constitute about 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively.
3.17        EnterDrise Development Progtram (estimated cost: USS120 million).  The
objective of this program is to expand employment and income generating
opportunities in the microenterprise sector by encouraging entrepreneurs to start
new businesses and existing businesses to expand their operations. Many of the
households engaged in such microenterprises belong to the low-income population
groups vulnerable to growing unemployment and depressed incomes. On the other hand,
a vigorous microenterprise sector can have the ability and flexibility to seize
opportunities for improvement of income and employment (self-employment or
otherwise) benefitting SFD's target group, including displaced public enterprise
employees and returnees from the Gulf.
3.18        The program will achieve its objective through technical assistance and
institutional capacity building directed at small businesses and potential
entrepreneurs to provide the encouragement and know-how to start or expand
productive activities. In order to facilitate a positive response from the target
groups, a supervised credit program sponsored by financial institutions, business
organizations and NGOs approved by SFD will also be provided by the program.
Financing will be extended to new or ongoing microenterprises for equipment
purchases and working capital. Productive acti-ities will need to satisfy sound
minimum financial criteria and could include, for example, the purchase of an oven
for a bakery; working capital for a metalworks business to cover operating expenses



21
or the purchase of raw materials; or the expansion of a shop facility to employ
more workers.  Loan sizes are expected to be in the iange of US$300-US$4,000, with
an average of about US$1,000.
3.19        Larger loan sizes (up to US$60,000) will be made available on a limited
basis to microenterprises significantly transforming their operations and expanding
their employment of unskilled or semi-skilled workers. On this basis, about 70,000
loans are expected to be provided over the four-year implementation period for the
proposed project.   This will generate a coverage of about 7 percent of the
estimated number of currently existing microenterprises in Egypt. This level of
coverage and effort over a four-year period is considered realistic. The program
also includes technical assistance and training to SFD and SA staff for
implementing the schemes.
3.20        An estimated US$17 million in loans is projected to be approved during
the first year of implementation. By the second year, full implementation capacity
is expected to be reached in all the SAs, and approximately US$30 million is
estimated to be disbursed during that time. The breal:down of total loan amounts
expected to be approved by the various participating agencies over the project's
lifetime is as follows: PBDAC (US$35 million); ABA (US$10 million); CBA (US$12
million); NBD (US$15 million); and other agencies (US$25 million).
3.21        Labor Mobility (estimated cost: USS91 million).  The envisaged public
enterprise reforms and privatization program, and the anticipated changes in
relative prices, are projected to significantly increase requirements for
retraining labor in new skills and for labor redeployment between enterprises and
between the public and private sectors.   The extent of labor movement required
and the associated costs are difficult to estimate (para. 2.22). However, enhanced
public knowledge and the availability of funded programs to underwrite the costs
of retraining and redeploying labor can greatly facilitate labor mobility. This
program will: (i) finance the costs involved in facilitating labor mobility; (ii)
provide technical advice to enterprises in designing their labor mobility programs;
and (iii) build a capacity in the Social Fund to monitor and evaluate the policy
environment governing labor mobility and advise the Government on needed policy
reforms.
3.22        Labor mobility is expected to take many forms.  Voluntary departures
induced through early retirement benefits, one-time separation benefits, organized
placements in new jobs with retraining, and financial assistance for starting own
businesses are expected to be the main mechanisms for increasing labor mobility.
In later years, as the holding companies and public sector enterprises begin to
exercise their full autonomy, lay-offs and dismissal of employees for reasons of
reductions in business activity and/or poor performance are expected to increase.
3.23        Exper'.ence from other countries has indicated that increasing labor
mobility is essential to increasing productivity and growth in the economy and
eventually creating more job opportunities.   Experience also indicates that to
facilitate labor mobility it is essential to establish a safety net to help the
affected workers during the transition period. It is therefore proposed that SFD
will provide grant financing to cover reasonable costs involved in labor mobility
on the basis of a Labor Mobility Plan (LMP) submitted by an interested public
sector company or a holding company.   The type of expenditures financed will
include, inter alia, early retirement benefits, separation benefits, redeployment
costs, training/retraining in the existing or new company, unemployment insurance
(or a minimum family subsistence allowance) for a fixed duration, and professional
counseling. Financial assistance for setting up own businesses will be available



22
under the Enterprise Development Program. Each LMP will be expected to present
the details of expenditures involved, purposes of the proposed labor mobility,
implementation arrangements and number of persons involved.  Guidelines for the
preparation and appraisal of LMPs and draft model contracts between SFD and
enterprises are currently being prepared.
3.24        The program will involve both passive and active provisions to protect
the incomes and employment of public sector employees. An essential part of the
passive measures to be developed will be a set of Government actions, including,
but rLot limited to, the following: (i) drafting and adopting new regulations on
workers' dismissals, and on facilitating labor exchange between the public and
private sectors; (ii) determining the financing arrangements of unemployment
insurance benefits, and deciding on the amount, duration and delivery of these
benefits; (iii) establishing the formula for determining amounts of separation
benefits, and the respective roles of public enterprises and the Government in
their payment; and (iv) planning a pension option for early retirement, to include
preparation of necessary changes in regulations, and determination of age and
eligibility criteria. The technical unit of the Labor Mobilization Department of
SFD will provide technical advice and support to the Government on policies, as
well as undertaking initial actions.
3.25        The active approach will entail exploring options for the delivery of
on-site assistance for workers to be displaced, such as employment counseling and
placement assistance, referral to retraining and micro-enterprise development
services, and aid in securing temporary income assistance or early retirement
benefits. Other complementary options that will be xplored include the delivery
of retraining (especially retraining linked to the particular needs of employers
or to the creation of self-employment), as well as unemployment insurance and
pension programs.
3.26        The cost of this program is estimated at US$91 million over a period
of four years, of which: (i) US$6 million, will be the cost of an initial phase
lasting one year, and (ii) US$85 million will be the cost of full scale
implementation of the program. The cost of the initial phase comprises: technical
assistance (US$1.5 million) required for development and design of the
implementation plan and the provision of expertise to all concerned in the
redeployment effort; retraining (US$3.5 million) provided for 3,000 workers on a
pilot basis and assuming the unit cost per worker is US$1000; and equipment,
personnel and other operating costs (US$1 million) which will be incurred by the
agencies implementing pilot redeployment programs and SFD staff involved in the
development of this component. Assu;ning that about 5 percent of workers employed
in public sector companies will be targeted through redeployment programs funded
by SFD (5 percent of 1.2 million total labor force in PEs, i.e., 60,000 workers),
then the estimated cost of the second phase comprises: on-the-job and formal
retraining, including counseling and placement services (US$64 million) provided
for approximately 80 percent (48,000 workers) of the target group; and early
retirement, unemployment _nsurance and separation benefits (US$21 million). All
displaced workers will be eligible for separation benefits, while only 20 percent
of them will qualify for early retirement,  and 50 percent for unemployment
insurance. The implementation progress of this program will be reviewed annually
by SFD and IDA, and procedures and allocations will be revised, if necessary, to
respond to new developments resulting from the anticipated public enterprise reform
measures.
3.27        Institutional Development (estimated cost: VSSll million).   This
program aims to ensure the establishment of SFD as an institution with the



23
managerial efficiency and implementation capabilities needed to achieve its
objectives, and to enhance the Government's abilities to both monitor the impacts
of its macro policies on the living conditions of the population and plan future
sectoral programs and policies. To achieve this, the proposed project will finance
the development of detailed targeting, monitoring and analysis databases within a
computerized management information system (MIS) to be located in the Central
Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS). Requisite data will be
collected and analyses performed through a series of surveys and studies to be
conducted over the project's lifespan.  CAPMAS will act as a steering committee
to ensure the broad participation of various government agencies interested in the
design of the surveys and of the program of analyses. CAPMAS and SFD's targeting,
monitoring and evaluation unit will closely collaborate on these designs.
3.28        SFD operations for the lifespan of the project, including personnel,
travel, training, equipment, furniture, vehicle and maintenance costs will be
financed. Also financed will be allowances for salaries commensurate with private
sector remuneration for similar levels of responsibility. Total operating costs
are estimated at about US$3 million, or a little under 1 percent of total project
costs, which is consistent with other social fund operations financed by the Bank.
3.29        The project will help CAPMAS produce and analyze data on the living
conditions of the population. Support will be given to CAPMAS for four stages of
activities: (i) specific analysis of an ongoing household expenditure survey; (ii)
in 1992, completion of both a Priority Survey (PS) to measure a variety of general
indicators of household living conditions (e.g., health, education, employment,
etc.) based on a single-round survey questionnaire applied to a large sample
(21,275 households), and a Community Survey (CS) to assess services and
infrastructure existing at the community level; (iii) in 1993, completion of
Integrated Survey (IS) to measure household indicators, conducted on a smaller
sample (7,000 households) ar.d with a detailed, multi-round survey questionnaire;
and (iv) in 1994, completion of another PS to monitor the changes in living
conditions of the population and the impacts of the economic reforms. The results
of the surveys will be progressively integrated into the MIS database to be
maintained at CAPMAS and used to establish a monitoring mechanism, focusing on a
set of reliable social indicators that will be regularly updated. The indicators
will allow the Government to follow the impacts of its policies on the population,
and to better define and target subprojects and programs in the social sectors.
3.30        A comprehensive program of analyses of specific issues particularly
relevant to the subproject targeting and monitoring functions of SFD and to the
integration of social concerns in Egyptian policy will be undertaken using the
data from the priority and integrated surveys, as well as other surveys conducted
by CAPMAS. Initially, three broad areas will be covered: (i) employment issues;
(ii) the poverty profile of the population; and (iii) the impacts of subsidies and
governmental services (including, e.g., food subsidies, social security, etc.) on
the poor and vulnerable. Development activities for women will be the focus of
an additional analysis covering all three areas.
3.31        Most urgently, and while awaiting the results of the social analyses
described above, a set of studies will be conducted, under the supervision of SFD
and the concerned ministries, to assist the Government in the identification of
specific policies to protect the poor and the vulnerable in the context of economic
reform. The initial set of studies, financed under the project, will develop
various scenarios for: (i) better targeting of subsidies; (ii) protecting essential
public services used by the poor; and (iii) improving the efficiency of various
direct transfer schemes.   The studies will analyze the financial, economic and



24
social implications of the different scenarios and describe the institutional
mechanisms to be used to implement the proposed policies.
3.32        During negotiations, Government agreement was reached that SFD will
provide to IDA for review a detailed outline of the objectives and scope of the
above studies by October 31, 1991, and that SFD will subsequently carry out the
agreed studies and, in consultation with IDA, implement the recommendations of the
studies.
Project PhasIng and Status of Pregaration
3.33        It is envisaged that project activities will all begin at once, but
will reach fruition in two phases. The initial phase will comprise a core program
requiring relatively little start-up time, including: (i) training and technical
assistance directed at key SFD and participating agency staff to develop skills
requisite for the design and implementation of SFD operations; (ii) labor-
intensive public works activities for initially selected geographic areas; (iii)
imports of spare parts for the public transport sector; and (iv) surveys and
studies to strengthen the targeting, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation systems.
3.34        As  publicity  efforts  broaden public  awareness  of  the  available
assistance programs, the remaining project activities will gain momentum by the
beginning of the project's second year.   Included in this second phase will be
programs to: (i) provide credit to small enterprises; (ii) support community
development efforts geared towards improving basic public services and generating
micro productive activities; and (iii) develop a mechanism for mobilizing displaced
public enterprise employees through retraining and placement services.
3.35        The design of the programs will be sufficiently flexible that, in
subsequent years, their evolution will be guided by the development and refinement
of targeting mechanisms and be able to accommodate other initiatives by
governmental and non-governmental organizations as the adjustment process proceeds.
These initiatives could include a wide range of employment promotion activities in
different geographic areas, but could also include some locally concentrated
development programs, if such are suggested and meet appraisal criteria. As an
allowance for potential deviations from the project's pace of implementation,
additional flexibility has been built into the project to permit the reallocation
of  funds  from  low-performing  programs  to  high-performing  ones.    During
negotiations, it was agreed that annual joint reviews will be held with IDA to
discuss SFD's work plan for the upcoming year and to assess the levels at which
SFD funds are allocated to the proposed project's core programs.   It was also
agreed that SFD will provide for IDA review by October 31, 1991, a brief report
describing its anticipated needs for specialist services and the dates by which it
intends to contract such services.
3.36        The preparation of detailed designs for the Municipal Services works
is being carried out in 4 of the 26 governorates, notably: Menoufia, Qena, Giza and
Cairo; comprising the first year's activities in wastewater management, road
construction, solid waste collection, water supply, canal cleaning, landscaping and
building refurbishment. The total estimated cost of these works is LE 120 million
(US$33 million). Bills of quantity for Public Transport spare parts (totaling an
additional US$30 million) are also under preparation, and will be available by
negotiations.   The  institutional development of SFD and other participating
agencies  is under way--terms  of reference have been drafted  for  technical
assistance to (i) provide staff training, (ii) assist subproject preparation, and
(iii) perform necessary surveys and studies; SFD's appraisal criteria, operational



25
procedures and initial targeting system have been completed and are awaiting
approval by SFD's Board. Relating to second phase activities, framework agreements
with participating agencies that have already been identified are presently being
finalized; additional agencies are in the process of being identified. Promotional
campaigns and subproject identification activities will begin no later than October
31, 1991 for all programs.   Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
IV.  ROMCT COSTS AWD ]FI-NCNG_ AREANENNT
Prolect Costs
4.01        Total project costs are estimated at LE 1.5 billion or US$572 million
equivalent.
Table 4.01:- Prolect Cost Summary By Program
X Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    X Foreign   Base
-----(LE million) -----  -----(US$ million) ----  Exchange   Costs
Municipal Services     544.8  173.4  718.2    165.1   52.5  217.6      24       43
Public Transport        33.0  132.0  165.0     10.0   40.0   50.0      80       10
Comunity Development    46.7   75.0  121.7     14.1   22.8   36.9      62        7
Enterprise Development  266.6   94.9  361.5    80.8   28.8  109.5      26       22
Labor Nobility         224.8   45.9  270.8     68.1   13.9   82.0      17       16
Institutional Development    21.2   11.3  32.5  6.4   3.4   9.8        35        2
Total Base Cost     11371         .669.7    344.6  161.4  5060       32      100
Contingencies: Physical  61.9   22.8   84.7    18.8   6.9   25.7       27        5
Price       734.8  308.5 1,043.3   28.5   12.2   40.7      30         8
Total Project Cost   1,933.9  863.8 2 .797,7   391.9    057233          2       113
Note:  Totals may not add up due to rounding.
4.02        Table 4.02 provides a breakdown of the investment and recurrent costs
of the project. Baseline investment and recurrent costs total US$462 million and
US$43 million, respectively.
4.03        Estimated project costs do not include direct taxes or customs duties,
but they include an estimated cost of US$41 million in indirect taxes on project
items and construction materials purchased locally by subproject intermediary and
executing agencies.
4.04        Physical contingencies are estimated at US$26 million, based on 10
percent of the cost of civil works and equipment; no physical contingencies were
allowed for on the other components. Total price contingencies are estimated US$41
million. Price contingencies for local costs have been estimated at 28 percent for
1991/92, 22 percent for 1992/93, 15 percent for 1993/94, 9 percent for 1994/95, and



26
6 percent for 1995/96 based on the latest economic review of the country. Price
increases for foreign costs have been estimated at 3.4 percent per annum throughout
the life of the project. Because of expected changes in exchange rates due to the
substantial differential between projected local and foreign inflation,
international price increases have beenn taken into account to calculate both local
and foreign contingencies when estimating costs in terms of US dollars.   Total
contingencies are estimated to be about 13 percent of baseline costs.
4.05         The estimated foreign exchange component is US$180 million, or about
32 percent of the total project cost.
Table 4.02:  Summary of Prolact Costs by Cateaorv of Expenditures
S      X Total
Local  Foreign  Totb!    Local  Foreign  Total    Foreign    Base
-----(LE million) ------    -----(US$ millLon)-----    Exchange    Costs
Investment Costs
CiviL Works         462.1   24.3  486.4    140.0    7.4  147.4        5        29
Equipment           78.8  315.3  394.1      23.9   95.5  119.4       80        24
Credit Funds        223.3   95.7  319.0     67.7   29.0   96.7       30        19
Technical Assistance    12.6   50.4   63.0   3.8   15.3   19.1       80         4
Training            163.5   40.9  204.4     49.5   12.4   61.9       20        12
Direct Assistance    59.4    --   59.4      18.0    --   18.0         0         4
Total Investment Costs  999.7  526.6 1.526.3    302.9  159.6  462.5  35        31
Recurrent Costs
Salaries             23.4    --   23.4       7.1   --    7.1          0         1
Operations & Maintenance 114.0    6.0  120.0  34.5    1.8   36.4      5         7
Total Recurrent Costs   137.4    6.0  143.4  41.6    1.8   43.5       4         9
Total Base Cost   l.137.1  532.6 1.669.7    344.6  161.4  506.0      32       100
Contingencies: Physical    61.9   22.8   84.7  18.8    6.9   25.7     27         5
Price     734.8  308.5 1,043.3    28.5   12.2   40.7       30         8
Total Project Cost  L.9_.J.9  863  2.797.7    391.9  180,5  572.32              113
late:  Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Project Financing
4.06         The proposed IDA credit of US$140 million equivalent will finance about
25 percent of the total project cost. The Government will finance US$55 million
equivalent, representing about 12 percent of the total project cost, through a
grant from USAID. The Government will be responsible for paying commitment and
other charges in respect of IDA or other external assistance. The cost of these
charges to the Government is considered to be fiscally manageable, at,d is expected
to be a small fraction of the incremental inflows of concessional financing from
other donors.
4.07         The proceeds of i:he IDA credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt will be
passed on to SFD in grant form.   Cofinancing on concessionary terms from other
donors,  totaling US$257.5 million equivalent, has been confirmed.   Additional



27
cofinancing has been indicated but not yet confirmed from several other donors,
totaling US$119.5 million equivalent. The proposed financing plan is summarized
in Table 4.04.
4.08       A Memorandum of Understanding was signed by the confirmed cofinanciers
at the Donors' Meeting held in Paris, May 21-22, 1991, specifying, inter Ali,
subprojects or specific interventions and items to be financed, administrative
responsibilities of IDA with respect to the financing, and procedures for
procurement, disbursement, supervision and exchange of information. As a condtiton
of IDA credit effectiveneas, all conditions necessary for the effectiveness of
Cofinancing Agreements totaling at least US$100 million equivalent will need to be
met.
Table 4.04: Financinu Plan (USS)
To Be
Confirmed   Confirmeda/   Total
Donors
IDA                               140.0         --        140.0
European Community                140.0         --        140.0
Government/USAID                   55.0         --         55.0
Arab Fund                          50.0          --        50.0
Kuwait Fund                        50.0         --         50.0
Switzerland                        10.0        20.0b/      30.0
Germany                             --          30. Oc     30.0
Abu Dhabi Fund                      --          25 0d/     25.0
Denmark                             1.5         8.5'/      10.0
Canada                              --         10.0'/      10.0
France                              --         10.00/      10.0
Sweden                              --           oh/       10.0
Netherlands                         --          6.0'/       6.0
UNDP                                4.0         --          4.0
Norway                              2.0          -           .0
Total                       452.5        119.5      572.0
a/ Pending donor final confirmation.
b/  Pending funher anaysi of the project documentatIon.
c/  PendinE tuther analss d the prject do atin and the   of the ConsutatiVe Group meeting.
d/  Pending appo al of the Government f the United Arab Emr ates.
e/  Pending DANIDA apprais  of the proect.
t Pending CADA apprabi of the proect.
g/  Pending furher analysi of the project documenton.
h/ Pending SIDA app a of the prolect
I/  Pending uithe  analysis of the projed documentation.
Procurement
4.09       All equipment and materials to be financed from the IDA credit proceeds
will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
Egyptian manufacturers competing under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the
prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less,



28
provided they can prove that the local value added to the product is not less than
20 percent of ex-factory bid price.   All bidding packages for equipment and
materials estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more will be subject to ex-
post review after contract award.   Procurement of consulting services to be
financed from the credit proceeds will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. All ducuments relating to procurement of consulting
services will be subject to the Pank's prior review.
4.10        In order to enable quick utilization of project financing, activities
financed by SFD will be small in size, usually not exceeding US$100,000. Contracts
will be packaged by SFD and the subproject implementing agencies to attract small,
private  sector  contractors.    Contract  awards  will  be  proportional  to  the
contractors' capabilities. In general, contractors (who will be sure to utilize
labor-intensive methods) will not be awarded more than one contract per community,
in order to encourage the growth of new contractors.
4.11        Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment valued at US$250,000
or more will be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  Contracts for the supply of goods will be
grouped, as far as practicable, to attract international competition. Goods and
equipment costing between US$50,000 and US$250,000 will be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures and those below US$50,000 will be procured
through solicitation of at least three price quotations. Local competitive bidding
procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the
execution of the project. There are, however, a few procedures inconsistent with
Bank procurement guidelines, and others requiring clarification at negotiations.
During negotiations, Government agreement was reached regarding changes needed to
make the procedures acceptable to the Bank.  A summary of these procedures and
changes is provided in Annex II.
4.12        Contracts for civil works valued at US$500,000 or more will be awarded
through ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.   Civil works contracts under
US$500,000 will be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) open to foreign
contractors.
4.13        Table 4.06 gives a breakdown of project programs to be procured by
ICB and LCB.   SFD will require SAs to classify and register contractors in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. This list will be used to verify
bidder  qualifications  at  the  post-qualification  stage.    Criteria  for  the
classification of contractors are currently under preparation. The registration
and classification process will begin immediately after the signing of the IDA
Credit Agreement, so that the registered contractors will be identified by credit
effectiveness. New contractors will be able to be registered at any time following
credit effectiveness.
4.14        During negotiations, Government agreement was reached on the criteria
to be used to register and classify contractors eligible to submit bids for SFD
contracts.



29
Table 4.06  Procurement Arrangements (in USS millions)
No. of      Procurement Methods     Total
Contracts      ICB    LCB     Other*  Cost
1.  Goods and Eguipment
Municipal Services             55         48.3    5.0      1.1     54.4
Public Transport               30         43.0    9.0      1.0     53.0
Community Development          65         19.0    4.0      0.4     23.4
Labor Mobility                 10          0.7    0.2     0.1       1.0
Institutional Development      10          0.5    0.1     0.1       0.7
Sub-Total Goods and
Equipment                   170        111.5   18.3     2.7    132.5
(27.3)  (4.5)   (0.6)   (32.4)
2. Civil Works
Municipal Services            400          4.0  162.4      9.5    175.9
Sub-Total Civil Works         400          4.0  162.4     9.5    175.9
(1.0) (39.7)   (2.3)   (43.0)
3. Credit Funds
Community Development          75          2.0    5.0     0.7       7.7
Enterprise Development       1000          8.0   84.0     6.2      98.2
Sub-Total Micro-             1075         10.0   89.0     6.9    105.9
enterprises                             (2.5) (21.8)   (1.6)   (25.9)
4. Services
Personnel                     N.A.                        7.8      7.8
Operation & Maintenance       300          2.0   35.6      2.0     39.6
Technical Assistance         N.A.         16.9    3.5      1.2     21.6
Sub-Total Services            300         18.9   39.1    11.0      69.0
(4.6)  (9.6)   (2.7)   (16.9)
5. Training
Retraining                    120         23.0    7.0    38.7    68.7
Cash Supplement               N.A.                       20.3    20.3
Sub-Total Training            120         23.0    7.0    59.0   89.0
(5.7)  (1.7)  (14.4)  (21.8)
TOTAL                        2056        167.4  315.8    89.1   572.3
(41.1) (77.3)  (21.6) (140.0)
Note: Flaures In p4wenthese ae the respective emountn to be financed by IDA.
*  Items under this category could Include US and loca and Intemalonai shopping.
DI)sbursement
4.15        Table 4.07 shows how the proposed IDA credit of US$140 million
equivalent will be disbursed against the cost of project programs.



30
Table 4.07: Disbursements
% of
Amount      Expenditures
Category    Description                     USS Million  To be Financed
1        Works under Municipal              40.0      25 percent of amounts
Services Program                            disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
2        Spare parts and equipment          14.0      25 percent of amounts
under Public Transport Program              disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
3        Community Development              10.0     25 percent of amounts
activities                                  disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
4        Credit under Enterprise            44.0      25 percent of amounts
Development Program                         disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
5        Training, equipment, tools         24.0     25 percent
and financial assistance
under Institutional
Development Program
6        Technical assistance                4.0     25 percent
7        Unallocated                         4 0
TOTAL                            140.0
4.16        The estimated quarterly disbursements of the IDA credit are given in
Annex III.  The disbursement schedule does not adhere to the standard disbursement
profile for Egypt due to the short-term natuLe of the project. Disbursements will
start at a slow pace for the first six months of the credit but will accelerate
as contracts are awarded and as project implementation proceeds. Disbursements are
expected to be completed within six months after project completion. The closing
date of the proposed credit will be June 30, 1997. During negotiations, Government
agreement was reached on SFD's disbursement procedures.
Suecial Account
4.17        In order to ensure ready access to foreign exchange, SFD will open
and maintain a Special Account in the National Bank of Egypt in which IDA, upon
request from SFD, will deposit funds up to an Authorized Allocation of US$7 million
equivalent.    The  Special  Account  will  be  replenished  against  withdrawal
applications of at least US$1 million at monthly intervals or, as appropriate, when



31
the undisbursed balance of the Account is equal to US$3 million or less.  All
disbursements under the project will be against standard documentation except for
contracts below US$25,000 which will be claimed under Statement of Expenditure
(SOE) procedures.   All  SOEs will be made  available  for examination by IDA
supervision missions. During negotiations, Goverrment agreement was reached that
the Special Account and the SOEs will be audited in conjunction with the annual
audit of SFD's accounts.
Contracting Procedures
4.18        The contracting and execution of subprojects will vary with the nature
of the subprojects.  Municipal services contracts will be signed by SFD and the
sponsoring Governorates.   Upon award of a contract, the entire contract amount
will be transferred by SFD to an account set up by the Governorate.   Community
development financing a6reements will be signed by SFD and the sponsoring agency
(SA), under which SFD will disburse 20 percent of the financing amount upon
presentation by the SA of a bank guarantee. Additional disbursements will be made
upon receipt of expenditure statements and subsequent review by SFD. Revolving
funds used in credit programs will be established using the procedures employed
under similar on-going operations.
V. NANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Agency Responsibilitv
5.01        The Government established a new apex agency, the Social Fund for
Development (SFD), by Presidential Decree No. 40/1991 in January 1991 to implement
the project, and in February 1991 appointed a Managing Director for its operations
(Prime Ministerial Decree No. 232/1991). SFD will initiate and accept proposals
for appropriate subprojects from sponsoring agencies, appraise the proposals,
finance those judged to be feasible, and monitor and supervise the implementation
of these subprojects, while exploring potential follow-up activities to be financed
under subsequent subprojects.  Framework agreements satisfactory to IDA will be
drawn up between the SFD and each sponsoring agency (SA). These agreements will
specify the implementation schedules, the financial terms and conditions, the
technical assistance requirements for which SFD funds will be provided, and the
contribution to subproject costs that may be required of each sponsoring agency.
They will also serve as a mechanism by which IDA will be able to ensure compliance
of SFD with program obiectives and criteria.   During negotiations, Government
assurances were received that all framework agreements between SFD and sponsoring
agencies will be submitted for IDA review and approval, as conditions for SFD
disbursement to those agencies.
5.02        In line with the recent Government policy to transfer greater decision
making authority from sector ministries to the governorates, the responsibility for
the implementation of the essential municipal services and community development
programs will be primarily at the local level, either through the governorates
themselves or through selected NGOs working with the governorates. It is expected
that all 26 governorates will participate in SFD programs. Responsibility for the
implementation of the public transport services program will be with the Cairo and
Alexandria Transport Authorities, while responsibility for the microenterprise
development program will be with participating financial intermediaries or other
NGOs, such  as  private  businessmen's  associations.    Responsibility  for  the



32
implementation of the labor mobility program will reside with the enterprises or
holding companies submitting labor mobility plans for SFD financing.
The Social Fund for Development (SFD)
5.03        SFD has been given semi-autonomous status and its bylaws have been
tailored to versatility and quick-v esponse requirements, thus allowing it to
function outside the confines of many government regulations. For administrative
purposes, the SFD is placed directly under the auspices of the Prime Minister, who
chairs its Board of Directors.   The Prime Minister is directly empowered to
formulate internal regulations concerning SFD's financial, administrative and
technical operations with minimum government restrictions and in line with private
sector practices.
5.04        The Board of Directors, which was formally appointed on May 6, 1991,
will be responsible for defining overall SFD strategy, approving SFD's development
plan and implementation programs, and monitoring subproject selection. The Board
has equal representation from the Government and _he private sector, and comprises:
the Ministers of Social Affairs, Cabinet Affairs and Administrative Development,
Labor and Training, and International Cooperation, as well as representatives from
the Alexandria Businessmen's Association, the Federation of Industries, Investors'
Society of the Tenth of Ramadan, and the Tourism and Hotel Federation. The direct
involvement of the Prime Minister in SFD's operations and the representation of
various ministries and NGOs on the SFD Board, is expected to facilitate the
coordination of SFD's activities with existing sectoral agencies.
5.05        Day-to-day operations of SFD are the responsibility of a Managing
Director appointed by the Prime Minister.  The Managing Director is responsible
for the overall policy, promotion and coordination functions of SFD, while an
Assistant Managing Director oversees the daily administrative aspects of the Fund.
SFD's principal activities will be organized around four operational departments-
-Public Works, Community Development, Enterprise Development, and Labor
Mobilization--and one Administration/Finance department, each headed by Directors
General appointed by the Managing Director in consultation with the Board. These
core staff were formally appointed on lay 6, 1991.  Four additional SFD units--
Internal Auditing, Legal, Fund Promotic /Donor Relations, and Targ(ting--assist the
Managing Director in SFD operations.
5.06        When operating at full capacity by early 1992, SFD will have a staff
of about 60 professionals, the majority of whom will be appointed as operations
warrant.   In the interim, an external consultancy firm has been engaged as a
technical secretariat to assist in daily operations and in the preparation of SFD's
operating procedures (including the conclusion of framework agreements and funding
application formats with the spon&-ring agencies), and to support the strategic
planning, program development and evaluation functions of SFD.
5.07         SFD's draft bylaws have been reviewed and found acceptable by IDA;
final versions of SFD's bylaws, operating procedures, subproject selection and
appraisal criteria, and personnel, procurement and accounting policies and
procedures have been prepared in Arabic and submitted to the Prime Minister for
approval by the SFD Board. Approval of SFD's bylaws, procedures and policies by
the SFD Board will be a condition of IDA Credit signing.
e



33
I&pKe et t0n Amnameota
5.08        Subprojects for all programs will be selected according to evaluation
procedures, methodologies and criteria agreed with IDA.   Manuals for project
preparation and standard project documents will be available for use by sponsoring
agencies (SAs). Subproject proposals submitted for SFD appraisal will be evaluated
based on the following: (i) the characteristics of the intended target
beneficiaries; (ii) the consistency of subprojects submitted for funding with SFD
objectives; (iii) the implementation capabilities of SAs; (iv) the extent to which
the targeted beneficiaries are involved in the identification, preparation and
implementation of the subproject, so as to ensure an implementation commitment at
the local level; (v) that all financing provided by SFD wlll be incremental to
normal Government budgetary allocations; and (vi) that the nature of the
subprojects should be simple, so that quick processing and disbursement of funds
could be ensured. Compliance with these criteria will be ensured through their
inclusion in the framework agreements between SFD and SAs, all of which will be
submitted to IDA for approval.
5.09        SFD staff will  conduct  field visits  to appraise  all subproject
proposals exceeding a value of US$50,000 (and any proposals of lesser value when
technically needed). Selection and appraisal criteria guidelines for the different
SFD activities are provided in the corresponding detailed program reports in the
Project File.   During negotiations,  Government agreement was reached on the
subproject eligibility, appraisal, selection, supervision and evaluation criteria
to be used by SFD.
5.10        SFD staff will maintain close contact with local communities to
facilitate the preparation of subprojects in accordance with the appraisal and
selection criteria. Resources will be provided, in part, from the earmarking of
funds from the European Community program "Special Aid to the Three Front-line
States," to assist selected agencies (ministries, local governments, NGOs and
PVOs) to improve their planning, design and implementation capabilities in advance
of IDA credit effectiveness, beginning by early July.
5.11        Provision of Essential MuniciDal Services.  Individual governorates or
selected NGOs working with the governorates will be the sponsoring agencies
responsible for the execution of the physical and environmental works under the
municipal services program. The Giza Governorate has been selected as the model
for other governorates and has, accordingly, been appraised for the program. Two
NGOs have also been reviewed; documentation related to them is available in the
project file. During negotiations, Government agreement was reached that SFD will
provide IDA with an overall plan of this program, detailing the geographic
distribution of activities to be funded, and in accordance with agreed eligibility
and selection criteria, by October 31, 1991.
5.12        To ensure that subprojects are provided with the requisite efficient
management and that all works meet the eligibility criteria set up by SFD, SAs
will be provided with technical assistance in the following fields: (i)
identification of subprojects suitable for financing by SFD and the presentation
of the application to SFD for appraisal and approval; (ii) classification and
registration of contractors; (iii) issuance of invitations to bid, evaluation of
bids and award of contracts; (iv) preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications to the SFD; and (v) development of their engineering, procurement and
accounting systems for their future operations. Under the USAID-supported Second
Local Development (LD-2) program, two international consulting firms are providing
this kind of technical assistance to the urban and rural governorates of Egypt.



34
This activity will be expanded through the program and suitable consultants will
be selected to continue the provision of assistance to the governorates.
5.13        Subprojects  requiring  engineering  services  for  design  and/or
supervision beyond the capabilities cf the sponsoring agencies' engineering
departments will be assisted by a technical assistance (TA) firm contracted by
SFD. This will ensure that subprojects are designed and executed in accordance
with accepted engineering practices, standards and specifications. However, where
the volume of work in any governorate warrants it, this could be converted to an
in-house SFD consultancy of a more permanent nature. Alternatively, the TA firm
could be requested to associate itself with an acceptable engineering office to
provide it with the necessary service. The engineering consultants will be hired
under a direct contract with the sponsoring agency.
5.14        Implementation of works will be entrusted to private sector contractors
who will be registered by the governorates. For each subproject, the governorate,
with the help of its consultants, will prepare a list of contractors invited to
bid. The list will also be submitted to SFD for clearance. Technical assistance
will be provided to small local contractors to (i) register with the relevant
authorities; (ii) obtain information on advertised tenders and how to obtain copies
of bidding documents; (iii) obtain bid security and submit their bids; (iv) obtain
required performance security; (v) procure materials, equipment and, where
necessary, credit to finance their operations; and (vi) submit valuations and
requests for payment. A line of credit through the Enterprise Development Program
will be provided to small contractors to help them finance their activities.
Furthermore, small contractors will be given the opportunity to improve their
technical capabilities, as well as the skills of their staff, through a special
technical assistance program. Two well-qualified Egyptian organizations have been
identified as agencies that could provide technical assistance to small
contractors, thus ensuring compliance with professional ethics and the maintenance
of a high performance standard. the SFD Board of Directors will decide which of
these organizations will be selected for this program.
5.15        In addition to the relatively standard types of works (water supply and
road construction, etc.) that will be designed and tendered as outlined above,
there will also be a series of simpler subprojects, such as street cleaning and
refurbishing, repair of curbstones. sidewalks and gutters, etc.  These will be
dealt with more simply, through the preparation of rough sketches, approximate
bills of quantities, and solicitation of three price quotations from small
contractors.   Contracts for all works will be awarded on a "lump-sum" basis,
requiring limited supervision and no remeasurement.   All subprojects will be
required to use labor-intensive methods, as designated in the selection criteria
and framework agreements.
5.16        Upon completion, subprojects will be handed over to local agencies,
(governorates, markaz or PVOs) for operation and maintenance through contract
arrangements. In addition to the important role they will play in the operation
and maintenance of completed subprojects, PVOs could themselves propose suitable
subprojects serving their objectives for financing by SFD, These will be treated
in the same way as subprojects proposed by local administrations.   However,
subprojects executed by PVOs will be limited in value to LE 50,000 or less, at
least for the initial period.
5.17        Community  Development.    The  identification  and  preparation  of
subprojects will be the major responsibility of SAs, which will articulate funding
requests from communities on behalf of proposed subproject beneficiaries. Although



35
a strong emphasis will be placed on PVOs to act as SAs under this program,
proposals submitted by governorates, ministries and other institutions will not
Je excluded from consideration for funding.
5.18        SFD staff will actively promote the program and explain its objectives,
appraisal criteria and approval processes to the intended beneficiaries and their
representative SAs.   Promotion will concentrate on vulnerable groups and lower
income areas as defined by the SFD targeting system, and will be publicized through
the media, village and neighborhood-level meetings, and sponsoring agencies.
5.19        If a community cannot identify an SA, or if the implementation capacity
of local PVOs is limited, SFD promotion staff will assist in the identification
of an SA, which could be a regional, national or international NGO, Government
institution, or bilateral/multilateral development agency. SFD will require, as
a condition of subproject approval, that SAs be responsible for and capable of
overseeing subproject implementation and ensuring quality control in the process.
5.20        Approval will be granted by the SFD Managing Director for community
development subprojects valued at up to US$25,000 equivalent (the maximum limit
for subprojects sponsored by a single SA). Proposas submitted involving several
subprojects and SAs simultaneously, that are valued in excess of US$25,000
equivalent, will be presented to the SFD Board for approval.
5.21        Items eligible  for  funding under  this program will  include  the
provision of equipment and supplies, as well as the financing of management support
fees and limited subproject operating costs (for a maximum of 18 months).  SFD
will not finance the internal recurrent expenditures of SAs which are not directly
subproject related. Requests involving civil works, such as construction, repair
or expansion of facilities, will be submitted in a separate proposal to the SFD
Public Works Department.  As a condition of subproject approval, and to ensure
sustainability of subproject benefits, SAs will be required to submit the
following: (i) a plan for coverage of subproject operating costs beyond the start-
up period; and (ii) where revolving funds are established, a plan to raise the
levels of interest charged on lines of credit to existing market rates during the
life of the subproject. Coordination with the sectoral ministries will also be
necessary during the preparation and implementation of these activities to ensure
that proposed subprojects will be consistent with sectoral strategies developed
by the responsible ministries. Framework agreements will be signed by SFD and SAs
detailing the terms and conditions of subproject financing and execution, and
specifying the ownership and management arrangements under which subprojects will
be carried out.
5.22        All subproject funding under this program will be provided by SFD in
grant form. SAs will be allowed to charge a sponsorship fee (limited to 5 percent
of total subproject cost).  Approved grants will be disbursed in tranches, the
first of which would be deposited into the SAs' bank accounts upon signature of the
framework agreement. Each subsequent tranche would be disbursed upon receipt of
expenditure statements and their review by SFD supervision staff. All goods and
services procured under this program will follow local shopping procedures where
SAs will ensure that goods and services financed by the grant are purchased at
reasonable prices following consultation of at least three suppliers with due
regard to, among other factors, the reliability of the goods provided, delivery
periods, and the availability of after-sales service.
5.23        Enterprise  DeveloRment.    SFD will  establish  a credit  operation
department headed by a Director General. This department will need capabilities



36
in the areas of loan appraisal and monitoring, technical assistance and training,
and marketing. Initially SFD will have a core staff of six persons covering the
three areas. As the volume of loans expands, these three types of capabilities
could be developed into three divisions of the department.   The core staff will
need to be in place before initial disbursements under this program are authorized.
In order to ensure that sponsoring agencies (SAs) possess the necessary physical
capacity, technical expertise and motivation to implement the program, framework
agreements between SFD and SAs will specify the minimum staffing requirements with
which SAs will have to comply. Each SA planning to make more than 500 loans will
be expected to establish a small unit in its organization of full-time, qualified
staff to market,  implemsnt and supervise this scheme.   SFD will assist the
selection and training of appropriate staff in these SAs, as needed.
5.24        Loan officers will be responsible for visiting loan recipients on a
periodic basis during the loan application, disbursement and repayment cycle. Loan
officers will also provide simple assistance and training to the beneficiaries in
areas such as planning the business, marketing their products and where to go for
specific technical advice. The capacity to provide these services has aJready been
established at the four identified SAs through previous operations; technical
assistance and training will be provided for loan officers in other SAs to develop
these capacities. SAs will establish financial incentive programs for all members
of their staff that will have responsibility for implementing the program. These
incentives will be linked to the marketing of the loan program and the loan
repayment performance of the borrowers under the loan officers' direct
responsibility.
5.25        To  date,  four  sponsoring  agencies  (SAs)  with  experience  in
microenterprise financing (through their association with the USAID-funded pilot
efforts) have expressed an interest in participating in this program: the Principal
Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), the National Bank for
Development (NBD), the Alexandria Businessmen's Association (ABA), and the Cairo
Businessmen's Association  (CBA).   Both PBDAC and NBD have been involved as
participating banks in previous Bank/IDA projects (Cr. 988, Lns. 2243 and 2459).
They have nationwide networks of branches and are considered capable of
implementing the program with some incremental staff. All four of these SAs are
supported by significant USAID-funded technical assistance, and thus a low entry
cost for these agencies is assured.
5.26        Each sponsoring agency will submit to SFD a scheme for financing
microenterprises. SFD staff will appraise the scheme using the criteria described
below and, for all schemes costing US$1 million or more, will submit their
appraisal together with the scheme to IDA for approval. Disbursements under each
scheme will be authorized by IDA after it has approved an SA's scheme. The schemes
will be approved by the SFD Board, and SFD will enter into framework agreements
with each SA outlining the respective obligations of each party.
5.27        SFD will channel the funds required for each scheme to SAs in a manner
that will allow the sponsoring agencies a minimum spread of eight percentage
points, which could increase depending upon the necessary start-up costs associated
with each SA. This spread will be subject to annual SFD review to ensure that it
continues to provide sufficient incentive for SAs to participate in the scheme, and
to cover the administrative costs involved with large numbers of small loans to
microenterprises. The credit from SFD to sponsoring agencies will have a fixed
amortization schedule of five years, thus allowing SAs to recycle funds since the
loans  to  microenterprises  will  be  of  shorter  duration.    The  loans  to
microenterprises from SAs will have maturity periods ranging from 6 months to 4



37
years (with a grace period of not more than one year), depending upon the likely
cash flow. The loans will be denominated in local currency; foreign currency risk
will be borne by the Government.
5.28        SAs will lend at market rates of interest without requiring collateral
in the form of mortgage of fixed assets. Security in the form of personal or group
guarantees, or hypothecation of assets financed, will be acceptable.   SAs will
market, appraise and supervise loans under the scheme, while beari,ag the full
credit risk. It is expected that the relatively high spread and availability of
a credit guarantee scheme will be sufficient financial inducement for the SAs to
participate. Normally, SAs will be expected to assign additional full-time staff
in the ratio of at least one loan officer for each 150 loans to be made.   In
addition, SAs will provide regular progress reports with information on the
characteristics of beneficiaries, loan amounts and terms, and loan collection
experience. Compliance with these terms will be a requirement for participation
of SAs in the program.
5.29        During  negotiations,  Government  agreement  was  reached  on  SFD's
relending terms, and assurances were received that SFD will not begin disbursements
to an SA until framework agreements between the SA and SFD are signed and the SA's
core staff is in place. Assurance were also received that, within the context of
the framework agreements between SFD and the SAs, financing received by SAs will
be used only for schemes approved by SFD.   Signature of framework agreements
approved by IDA between SFD and at least two SAs, for each program under the
project, will be a condition of disbursement of the IDA credit.
5.30        Labor Mobility.   Reflecting the uncertainty about the anticipated
effects on employment of the public enterprise reform program, and the current lack
of institutional capacity in Egypt's manpower development and deployment sectors,
the implementation of this program will evolve with the progress of the envisaged
public enterprise reform program. Although preliminary unit cost estimates of the
various types of redeployment assistance and of the possible delivery mechanisms
are available (para. 2.24), and potential providers of retraining services have
been identified, the detailed design will be developed in response to the emergence
of results of the reform program.  It should be noted that this program is not
aimed at addressing systemic labor market issues in Egypt beyond what is relevant
for understanding the full consequences of the public enterprise reform program on
employment in public sector companies.   The implementation mechanism for this
program calls for grant financing of comprehensive Labor Mobility Plans submitted
by enterprises and/or holding companies. The proposed Technical Unit in SFD will
be responsible for providing advice to enterprises in preparing Labor Mobility
Plans (LKPs), and for appraising them. Supervision will be the responsibility of
the SFD monitoring unit.
5.31        Once the preparation and appraisal guidelines and a model contract
satisfactory to IDA are approved by the SFD Board, SFD will forward them to all
400 public enterprises and the concerned holding companies.   The monitoring
department of SFD will be responsible for supervising implementation of LMPs,
including making sure that assistance provided to public enterprises actually
reaches the intended beneficiaries and is incremental to assistance provided by the
enterprise itself. The first three LMPs will be subject to IDA review. Assurances
to this effect were received during negotiations.
5.32        la appraise LMPs as well as to carry out the technical and policy
advice objectives of this program, a technical unit within SFD will be established
under the Labor Mobilization Department with the following responsibilities:



38
(a)   assessing the likely implications of the public enterprise reform
program on labor mobility, planning appropriate responses, and advising the
Government on policy implications;
(b)   serving as the coordinating body for the various parties involved in
conceptualizing the labor mobility effort, including the Ministries of
Manpower and Training, and Social Insurance, and the Public Investment Office
(a new apex institution proposed to be set up as a part of the public
enterprise reform program);
(c)   ensuring  consistency,  during  the conceptualization of  the  labor
mobility effort, with the public enterprise reform program envisaged under
the SAL, and future initiatives, such as the Bank's proposed Public
Expenditure Rationalization Loan (PERL);
(d)   providing assistance to enterprises in formulating their LMPs;
(e)   developing  and  articulating  the  operational  linkages  of  the
redeployment program with other SFD programs, such as the enterprise
development program; and
(f)   testing, on a pilot basis, various labor redeployment techniques among
a few enterprises and groups of workers, and disseminating the findings to
other enterprises.
During negotiations, it was agreed that SFD will establish by June 30, 1992, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, the above technical unit,
and will provide, for IDA's review, a model framework agreement for the
implementation of the redeployment activities by December 31, 1992.
TaKreting
5.33         SFD programs  will,  of necessity,  be  guided by crude  targeting
mechanisms at the outset.   This will be in consequence of the paucity and
unreliability of data on such questions, and of the pragmatic limitations of
programs.  Thus, for example, those programs--the Essential Municipal Services,
Essential Public Transport Services, and Community Development--which are designed
to begin conferring benefits relatively rapidly, will at the outset be mainly
geographically targeted.
5.34        In addition,  the Public Transport program is, to a degree,  self-
targeting in that it is the mass transit mode that vulnerable groups rely on almost
universally, to maintain their jobs and/or sustain their (frequently informal
sector) incomes. In a similar vein, the Municipal Services program has been made
self-targeting within geographic areas. Wages will be set at the market rate for
unskilled workers hired by small enterprises (the lowest market wage), thus
ensuring that only the unemployed and underemployed poor will accept the jobs.
Such self-targeting by keeping benefits low (i.e., in line with vulnerable workersI
and families' opportunity costs) has been the most efficacious targeting mechanism
employed in Bank/IDA-assisted social fund projects to date.
5.35        Under the Community Development program, and the programs that will
be slower in starting up (Enterprise Development and Labor Mobility), applications
will contain information identifying the socioeconomic characteristics of sponsors
and beneficiaries, i.e., in the first instance, whether they had recently become



39
unemployed, suffered a drop in real income, were returnees from the Gulf, etc. In
addition, the Labor Mobility program, from its inception will be focused on workers
who had lost, or were in the process of losing, their public enterprise jobs. By
the second year of the program, when these components will be coming fully on
stream, the general targeting ability of the SFD and Government will have improved.
A rough, preliminary system for compiling social indicators to identify priority
geographic regions and, within them, socioeconomic target groups, has been designed
using 1986 census data; however, as the results of the project-sponsored surveys
(and of other surveys sponsored by CAPMAS) become available, the indicators will
be improved, and a detailed map of Egypt will be created showing the relative
priorities of districts, and of groups within them, based on the improved
indicators.   SFD appraisal staff will continue giving preference to subprojects
located in districts, and focused on socioeconomic issues, that meet the targeting
requirements.
5.36        In the final phase, improvement in targeting under this project will
also arise out of the enhanced ability to target beneficiaries both geographically
and in terms of their socioeconomic characteristics/main vulnerabilities; and as
the aims of SFD programs converge with the country's developing strategies for
development and poverty alleviation.   It may be possible, for example, by the
second or third year, to develop components or subcomponents capable of
accelerating processes by which graduates enter gainful employment.   The main
beneficiaries, however, of the enhanced targeting that will be developed under
the project and which will contribute to better program and subproject design are
low-income women, and the families that rely on women as sole or important bread-
winners.
Cost Recovery and Sustainability
5.37        The three most important factors affecting the future sustainability
of the activities financed by the proposed project, and the results obtained under
the project, are: (i) the ability of the proposed SAL to set a policy framework to
encourage economic reform and private sector development; (ii) effective community
participation in the design and implementation of subprojects; and (iii) the
abilities of government ministries and agencies to assume responsibility for
selected SFD operations at the conclusion of SFD's lifetime. Of these three, the
last two will be addressed within the scope of the proposed project.
5.38        Along these lines, SFD is designed to respond to proposals developed
by the beneficiary communities themselves in collaboration with intermediary
agencies as a means of ensuring community commitment to the subproject. In order
to gain indications of the degrees to which communities are interested in
implementing subprojects, and to increase the communities' sense of ownership of
the subprojects (thus favoring their future sustainability), the beneficiary
communities will be expected to make in-kind contributions to the subprojects.
These in-kind contributions could take the form of labor and/or basic materials,
especially for the construction of schools and health centers and the
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure like roads and water systems.   Basic
materials such as sand and clay soil are often easily available in subproject site
areas and communities could easily contribute them.
5.39        At the conclusion of SFD's lifespan, SFD's operations will be reviewed
and selected activities might be continued under the auspices of other government
ministries or agencies (likely candidates will be the credit and targeting,
monitoring and evaluation activities). Requisite for this is the development of
adequate institutional capacities to assume responsibility for these activities,



40
which the project supports through substantial technical assistance directed at the
various agencies. However, without civil service reform aimed at rationalizing the
government work force and restructuring salaries and incentives to improve the
quality of government services, the sustainability of the activities implemented
under the project could be seriously constrained (para. 2.28).
5.40        Also intended as a project sustainability measure,  all subproject
proposals will be required to include operating plans, beyond the period for which
they will receive SFD assistance, satisfying specific appraisal and selection
criteria concerning subproject sustainability. Communities will also be expected
to support a cost recovery system for the provision of particular social services
or the improvement of basic infrastructure.  Charges for the costs of essential
drugs or perhaps a community-run cost recovery system for an improved public water
supply are possible examples. Furthermore, SFD will be encouraged tt deposit any
recoupment from enterprise or community development loans into a separate revolving
fund designed to supplement the amounts allocated to SFD programs by SFD's Board.
Accounts. Auditing and Reporting
5.41        Separate accounts will be maintained for all expenditures made under
the project.   SFD will maintain individual records as well as project and loan
accounts for each subproject and institutional support activity. The accounts and
statements of expenditure and, where relevant, repayments will be audited each year
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted no later than six months
after the end of the Government's fiscal year.
5.42        SFD will maintain a consolidated account for the entire project and
detailed accounts for the lines of credit or grants established for SAs upon
approval of their subprojects. Technical assistance will be provided to install
an accounting system and to operate it initially while training local SFD staff.
Similarly, SAs will be required by SFD to establish appropriate accounting systems
through corresponding provisions in subproject framework agreements, and SFD will
assist them in doing so. SFD will prepare quarterly and annual budgets, advise
the Government regarding disbursement forecasts, and complete disbursement
applications required for the release of IDA funds.
5.43        SFD will submit quarterly reports to IDA describing the progress of
the project's programs, any problems encountered, solutions adopted or modification
proposals, and the schedule of activities for the next semester. Each report will
include copies of reports received by SFD from SAs, and a report from the project
evaluators describing subproject monitoring work in the preceding semester. After
the first year of SFD operation, an assessment of the impact of SFD operations on
target groups will be carried out and a detailed report proposing necessary
improvements in project and program performance, will be submitted to IDA within
six months.
5.44        During negotiations, Government assurances were received that SFD w''ll
submit to IDA annual audit reports and quarterly progress reports acceptable to
IDA.
Monitorint and Evaluation
5.45        An efficient, computer-based management information system (MIS) is
currently being developed within SFD to monitor the physical and financial progress
of subproject implementation and to evaluate SFD's overall performance.



41
Preparation of this monitoring and evaluation system is anticipated to be completed
within the next four months.
5.46        This monitoring system will be an integral part of SFD management
activities, and will be responsible for ensuring that timely information is
available on (i) the implementation status of individual subprojects, (ii) the
operational performance of SFD as an institution, and (iii) the effectiveness of
SFD activities in meeting their objectives. Monitoring reports will oe prepared
by line managers in SFD departments, and will be incorporated into the overall
management information system (MIS) along with documentation about subprojects, and
financial and personnel data. A set of baseline indicators will be identified for
long-term monitoring that will be tracked through longitudinal impact studies
throughout the project's lifespan and beyond.  The information collected by the
reports and studies and incorporated into the MIS will be compiled annually in an
annual report, to be discussed with SAs, the SFD Board and IDA.
Sugervisio
5.47        Given the wide range of SFD activities,  the project will require
intensive supervision, particularly in its early stages, which will involve
selective site visits to subprojects in different stages of implementation by IDA
and SFD staff and contracted technical specialists. An estimated 48 person-weeks
of IDA staff time will need to be allocated for supervision of the project during
its first year, 36 person-weeks for the second, and 30 person-weeks for each of the
third and fourth years. Annual reviews will be conducted jointly by SFD and IDA
to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of SFD activities and assess emerging
needs for adjustment.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01        By supporting the establishment of SFD, the project will contribute
to protecting Egypt's most vulnerable groups, including the Gulf returnees, from
the negative social impacts of the adjustment program and the Gulf crisis. The
primary beneficiaries will be unemployed workers (including displaced public
enterprise employees and Gulf returnees) and people living in impoverished
communities. Special attention will be given to improvements in the economic and
social situation of women through increased participation in productive activities
and better access to basic social services. It is anticipated that the Municipal
Services Program will generate over 26,000 person-years of temporary employment
in construction activities and close to 15,000 permanent job opportunities in
operation and maintenance activities. It is also estimated that over 2 million
persons could benefit through improved income, conditions of living and access to
basic services. Likewise, significant benefits will be realized from the public
transport program through the improved access to productive activities it will
provide to impoverished segments of the Cairo and Alexandria populations. Under
the Enterprise Development Program, substantial employment opportunities will be
generated and the development of private sector initiatives and entrepreneurship
will be stimulated and supported through an estimated 70,000 microenterprises to
be funded, thus helping to reduce Egypt's overdependence on the public sector.
Furthermore, the establishment of labor mobility mechanisms will allow the
Government to deal more effectively with the anticipated increase in unemployment



42
resulting from the economic and public enterprise reform measures.  Additional
benefits will include (i) the strengthened capacity of sponsoring agencies to
design, provide and sustain income generation, nutrition, health and education
services for the poor, and (ii) the mobilization of additional external resources
for poverty alleviation activities.
6.02        The main risk faced by the project is that SFD may be subjected to
political pressures that could force subproject choices inconsistent with agreed
selection criteria.  To minimize this risk, a subproject review process will be
established involving IDA approval of both the subproject selection criteria and
the framework agreements between SFD and sponsoring agencies; and effective
monitoring and auditing procedures will be developed to ensure transparency in the
operation of SFD and  its  subprojects.    Selected  subprojects will  also be
periodically reviewed by IDA to ensure adherence to the procedures and criteria.
6.03        Closely related is the risk of weak or unsustainable implementation,
either because the related SAL is less successful than contemplated in setting a
policy framework to encourage economic reform and private sector development, or
because of limited absorptive or institutional capacities, the possibilities of
which are increased by the absence of comprehensive reform of the civil service and
social security systems (relegated to the next stage of the adjustment process).
Three project features are designed to mitigate this risk: (i) specific selection
guidelines, training and incentives will be provided to ensure the abilities of SFD
and sponsoring agency staff to carry out the programs, and their dedication to do
so; (ii) technical assistance and training prog,ams will improve the institutional
capacities of relevant governmern agencies and finance feasibility studies to plan
further related reform steps and policy measures; and (iii) the project has been
flexibly designed to allow the reallocation of SFD funds from low-performing
activities to higher-performing ones.
6.04        Finally, there is a risk that the project will elevate the delivery
of public services above sustainable levels. To minimize this risk, all public
works and service improvements will be planned and approved at the governorate
level, in accordance with criteria approved by IDA, and incorporated into framework
agreements between SFD and the governorates, ensuring that future recurrent cost
implications will be considered. In addition, working relationships between SFD
and key government agencies will be established (e.g., through the secondment of
agency staff and assignment of advisors to SFD) to help them develop and/or adapt
SFD programs that may merit subsequent bilateral or multilateral support on an
expanded scale. While the sustainability risk is not expected to be completely
eliminated by these measures, the beneficial effects of the repairs and new
investments, combined with the income distribution effects generatr' ,y the labor-
intensive construction methods to be used, would more than compensate for this
risk. Furthermore, the project will fund an important expenditure review aimed at
identifying and then protecting the essential public services used by the poor.
It should be possible to apply the results of this study to the enhanced services
created under this project to enable their sustainability.
Environmental Imgact
6.05        Through the support of labor-intensive public works--mainly for basic
water supply and sewage systems, and solid waste removal in low-income rural and
urban areas--the proposed project will contribute to alleviating environmental
problems related to the lack of access to safe water and adequate sanitation, which



43
constitute a serious environmental hazard because of the large incidence of water-
and refuse-borne diseases. Also, project-sponsored tree-planting operations will
contribute to windbreaking and sand dune stabilization, as preventative measures
to  desertification.    However,  both  the  Municipal  Services  and  Enterprise
Development programs, although focusing on small-sized activities, may still have
negative environmental impacts.
6.06        The proposed project review,  under the provisions of Operational
Directive 4.00, Appendix A, "Environmental Assessment," has classified activities
to be f:nanced under the Municipal Services Program as category "A", while
activities under the Enterprise Development Program have been classified as
category  "B".    The  remaining  programs  have  been  placed  in  category  "C".
Environmental concerns will be addressed through design and monitoring criteria
to be agreed with IDA and incorporated into each framework agreement between SFD
and  sponsoring  agencies.    Furthermore,  SFD  will  employ  two  environmental
specialists to work closely with the Municipal Services and Enterprise Development
Departments to ensure compliance with the criteria.
VII. AGREEMENTS RECUED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01        During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government:
(a)   that SFD will provide to IDA for review a detailed outline of the
objectives and scope of the proposed studies by October 31, 1991,
and that SFD will subsequently carry out the agreed studies and,
in consultation with IDA, implement the recommendations of the
studies (para. 3.32);
(b)   that annual joint reviews will be held with IDA to discuss SFD's
work plan for the upcoming year and to assess the levels at which
SFD funds are allocated to the proposed project's core programs
(para. 3.35);
(c)   that SFD will provide for IDA review by October 31, 1991, a brief
report describing its anticipated needs for specialist services
and the dates by which it will contract such services (para.
3.35);
(d)   that  promotional  campaigns  and  subproject   identification
activities will begin no later than October 31, 1991 for all SFD
programs (para. 3.36);
(e)   regarding necessary changes to SFD procurement procedures (para.
4.11);
(f)   on the criteria to be used to register and classify contractors
eligible to submit bids for SFD contracts (para. 4.14);
(g)   on SFD's disbursement procedures (para. 4.16);
(h)   that  the  Special Account  and  the  SOEs will  be  audited  in
conjunction with the annual audit of SFD's accounts (para. 4.17);



44
(M)   that all framework agreements between SFD and sponsoring agencies
will be submitted for IDA review, as conditions for disbursement
to those agencies (para. 5.01);
(j)   on  the  eligibility,  appraisal,  selecti.on,  supervision  and
evaluation criteria for subprojects to be financed by SFD (para.
5.09);
(k)   that SFD will provide IDA with an overall plan of the Municipal
Services Program, detailing the geographic distribution of
activities to be funded, and in accordance with agreed eligibility
and selection criteria, by October 31, 1991 (para. 5.11);
(1)   on the relending terms for credit activities included in the
project (para. 5.29);
(m)   that SFD will not begin disbursements to an SA until framework
agreements between the SA and SFD are signed and the SA's core
staff is in place (para. 5.29);
(n)   that, within the context of the framework agreements between SFD
and SAs, financing received by SAs will be used only for schemes
approved by SFD (para. 5.29);
(o)   that the preparation and appraisal guidelines and a model Labor
Mobility Plan (LMP) contract for the Labor Mobility Program will
be submitted to IDA for approval, and that the first three LMPs
will be subject to IDA review (para. 5.31);
(p)   that SFD will establish by June 30, 1992, in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA, a labor mobility technical unit,
and will provide, for IDA's review, a model framework agreement
for the implementation of the redeployment activities by December
31, 1992 (para. 5.32);
(q)   that SFD will submit to IDA annual audit reports and quarterly
progress reports acceptable to IDA (para. 5.44); and
7.02        As a condition of IDA Credit signing, SFD's operating procedures and
executive regulations will need to be approved by the SFD Board (para. 5.07).
7.03        As a condition of IDA Credit effectiveness, all conditions necessary
for the effectiveness of Cofinancing Agreements totaling at least US$100 million
equivalent will need to be met (para. 4.08).
7.04        As a condition of disbursement of the IDA credit, signature of framework
agreements, approved by IDA, between SFD and at least two SAs will be required for
each program under the project (para. 5.29).
7.05        With agreement having been reached on the above, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$140 million equivalent. The Borrower will be
the Arab Republic of Egypt.



45
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
~~~~~~~........ .............. ......................................................................
BASIC DATA SHEET                                                   DATA     YEAR   SOURCE
.. .................... ................................................................................. ., .....,...........-
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1. Total Population--Estimated (Mitlion)                             55     1989        4
2. GNP Per Capita (USS)                                             650     1988        1
3. Average Arnual GOP Growth Rate (%)                               3.2     1988        5
4. Total Goverrunent Expenditure as X of GNP                       45.5     1987        3
S. Urban Population as X of Total                                  47.7     1988         1
6. Adult Literacy Rate--Overall/Female (X)                    ".5/30.2      1988         1
7. Area (thou sq. km)                                              1002     198         3
8. Population Density (per sq. km)                                   50     1986         1
9. Agricultural l nd as X of Land Area                              2.6    1986          1
S. POPULATION DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                                    34.4      1988        2
2. Crude Death Rate (per 1000)                                      9.8     1988        2
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                            2.42     19J8        2
4. Poputation Projection (Mittion)                                 66.4     2000        2
5. Assuned Year of Reaching Net Reproduction Rate of One                    2020        2
6. Size of Statiorery Population (MiliMon)                          132     2020        2
7. Population Age Structure (1)
14 and unier                                                 40.8      1988        1
15-64                                                        55.4      198         1
over 65                                                       3.8      198         1
S. Depedency Ratio--Ecanomically Dependent/Productive Pop.         0.81     1988         1
9. total Fertility Rate--Average No. of Children per Wan    _-  4.6         1988         2
10. Women of Childbesring Age--15-49 as X of Female Pop.             47     198         2
11. Women of ChildcZering Age Using Contraception(%)                 32     1988        1
C. HEALTH AND NUTRITION DATA:
1. MedIcal Care Expenditures as X ot GOP                            0.6  1989/90        6
2. Health Expenditures as X of Total Governwnt Budget               2.8  1989/90        6
3. Population per Physician                                         786     1988         1
4. Population per Nurse                                             79?     1988         1
5. Populotior per Hospital Bed                                      491     196          1
6. Access to Health Care (X of pop.)                                 99     1m           1
7. Matermal Mortsilty (per 100,000 live births)                     500     1980        3
8. Infant Mortality Rate--Both Sexes (per 1000)                      4S     1966         4
9. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)
Nale                                                            59     1967        3
Female                                                         62      1967        3
10. Births Atteded By Neelth Staff (M)                               24     1985        3
11. Itmunlzed--Undar 12 Mths (2 of age group)
Meslets                                                         76     1988        2
OPT                                                             82     1986        2
12. Oral Rehydration Therapy Use--Under 5 (1 of cases)               83     1986        2
13. Daily Calorie Suply (calories per person)                      3342     19J8         1
14. Daily Protein Supply (graw  per person)                          61     1986         1
15. Low Birth Weight Infants (M under 2.5 Kg)                         7     1985        3



46
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
BASIC DATA SHEET                                                   DATA      YEAR   SOURCE
.................................................................................................
0. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Public Education Expenditures as X of GDP                        3.1  1989/90         6
2. Education Expenditures as X of Total Government Budget           13.9  1989/90        6
3. Primary Education Enrollment Rate(X)
Relevant Age Group--Overall/Femlme                             87/77      1986         1
4. Secondary Education Enrol liment Rate (X)
Relevant Age Group--Overall/Femsle                             66/54      19A6         1
5. Tertiary Education Enrollment RateCK)
Relevant Age Group--Total/Science-Engineering                 21/9.1      1986         1
6. Pupil-Teacher Ratio (pupils per teacher)
Primary                                                         31      1986        1
Secondary                                                       20      1986        1
E. LABOR FORCE DATA: (6+; Male/Female)
1. Total Population (Thousand)                               19Q20/19057    1986         4
2. Total Labor Force (Thousand)                               116 7/1561     1986         4
3. Employed (Thousand)                                       10949/1197      1966         4
4. Unemployed (Thousand)                                     868/364         1966         4
5. Uneaploiment Rate (X)                                     7.3/23.3        1986         4
6. Employment-Population Rate (X)                            55/6.3          1966         4
7. Labor Participation Rate (X)                              59.3/8.2        1986         4
8. Total Labor Force (X)                                     8.3/11.7        1986         4
9. Share of Total Labor Force in: (X)
Agriculture                                                 35.9         198S        5
Industry                                                    20.6         1988        5
Distributfon and Services                                   43.5         1988         5
F. BASIC SERVICES DATA:
1. Access to Piped Publlc Water System (X of pVp.)
Total                                                          73.1      1986        4
Urban                                                          92.4      1986        4
Rural                                                          55.9      1986        4
2. Stock of Housing Units
Total (fillfon)                                                 11.3     1986        4
Urban (X)                                                         52     1966         4
Rural (K)                                                         48     1986         4
3. Average No. of Persons/Housing Unit                                 5     1986         4
SOURCES: 1. Social tndiectors of Devetlopment 1989;
2. ENENA Region Population Projections, 1989.90;
3. World ODvelopm nt Report, 1989;
4. CAP9ASP Central Authority for PubLifc Mobfiization and Statistics;
(Centrol Governmentis Bureau of Statistics).
5. Trends fn Developing Economies, 1989;
6. Various Goverrment Mfnistries.



47
AN1NRX TT
Page 1 of 6
EGYPT
Country Procurement Assessment Report
ITEM NO.                      ISSUE                                RECOKMENDATION/APPROPRIATE ACTION               REFERENCE
~~~~~~~~~~... .......  ................... .................................                        .      ................... .........
1.     QUALIFICATION   ELIGIBI..iY
1.1     Prequalification
1.1.1  Appropriate Application
Prequalification is not always carried                 Prequallfcetioon should always be done             Guidelines
out where appropriate, i.e., sometimes                 for large civil works contracts, single            Pars 2.10
omitted for large civil works, or                      responsibility contracts and custom
supply/erect contracts, but carried                    designed equipment contracts.  For
out for stardard equipment contracts.                  standard equipment contracts, prequilifica
tion must not be done.
1.1.2   Qualification Criteria
Prequalification criteria, especially past             lorrowe" and Task Manager should                   Guidelines
experience, not clearly spelled out.                   review and agree on prequalification               Pars 2.10;
During the prequalificetlon stage, firms               requirem  nts before releasing the                 PTN No. 6
were disqualiffed on flimsy grouids.                   docbments.  New criteria should not                Paris. 37.38.
Prequalification criteria specified in the             be Introduced after prequaliffeation               39,42,43
documents were not correctly applied,                  proposals are received.
1.2    EligIbility
...........
Eligibility provisions overlooked in                   Task Panager should ensure that the                Guidelines
prequallfication/bldding documents.                    criteria set in PTN No. 6 pare 12                  Paras 1.5.  1.6,
are included.                                     & 1.7;
PTN No. 6
Par"s 12 & 13
1.3     Joint Venture
i.3.1   Coppulsory joint venture of winning                    Task  aager should ensure that the                 Guidelines
bidders of dIfferent lots.                             prequallffcation doeum nts do not                  Ptea 1.9;
include cmpulsory joint venture                  PTN No. 6
requiremnts. which is In violation                Paris 23 * 24
of Bank's Procuremant Guidelines.
1.3.2   EgyptIan firm as a memter of joint                     Not acceptable.  Thfs prohibition                  Cuidelines
venture In mwre than one bid.                          should be clearly spelled out In                   Ptea 1.9;
the bidding document.                             PTN No. 6
Paia 23Cb)



48                                   ANNEX  II
Page 2 or 6
EGYPT
Country Procurement Assessment Report
ITEM NO.                       ISSUE                                  RECOMMENDATION/APPROPRIATE ACTION                REFERENCE
.......  ..........
2.      BID EVALUATION - GOOS ANO EQUIPMENT
2.1     Goods
2.1.1   Changes of substance in technical                        Not acceptable.                                      Guidelines
specifications after bid opening.                                                                            Pars 2.46
2.1.2   Bid documient provides for merit point                   Merit point system must be used only                 SW  for Goods
system of bid evaluation for equipment.                  when a more etaborate quantification                Para 26.5
is either inprectical or unjustified                Footnote 31
due to the small value of the
procurement.
2.1.3   Inequitable allocation of point system                   Normally, Borrower's judgement in                    SBO for Goods
resulted in the highest bidder becoming                  allocation of merit points cannot be                Pars 26.5
the lowest bidder,                                       questioned.                                         Footnote 31
3.      BID EVALUATION - WORKS
3.1     Requirements relating to joint venture                   Not acceptable.                                      Guidelines
included in the bidding documents waived                                                                     Para 2.46
after bid opening.
3.2     Contract being conditional upon approval                 Not acceptable since such bidders                    Contrary to
of a third party,                                        would be in a position to refuse.                   general
principles.
3.3     Permitting a low bidder (found                           Evaluation need  to be carried out                   Guidelines
unresponsive by Bank/IDA) to make                        according to bids submitted.                        Para 2.46
changes to its offer after bid opening                   Unresponsive bid cannot be made
to enable it meet qualiffcation/                         resposive after bid opening.
responsive criteria.
4.      INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS - OTHER ISSUES
4.1     Two-envelope system used.                                Not acceptable.
4.2     No public opening of bids based on                       Not occeptable                                      PTI No. 6
local/agency practices.                                                                                      Pera 34
4.3     Systematic extension of bid validity                     The torn of the sacord sentence in                  Guidelines
period.  No price adIustment clause.                     the Bank's Procurement Guidelines                   Pare 2.59
Bidder unable to renew his bid at                        (Gufdelines), pars 2.59  appears to permit
the bid validity price,                                  an extensmi Inin  excaptiomal cfrc,mstances".
ank/110A should net permit multiplt
extension.



49                                ANNEX  II
Page 3 of 6
EGYPT
Country Procurament Assessment Report
ITEM NO.                       ISSUE                                 RECOIMENDATION/APPROPRIATE ACTION               REFERENCE
.... ..... .. .......  ...................           .....................................................           .........
4.4     Winners of tanders betng forced into                     They should coordinate their work to               Guideltines
a joint venture with joint or several                    the satisfaction of the Engineer to                Pars 1.9
responsibilitles for eseh other's work,                 ensure t.uat work provided are available
for use in adequate time for equipment
being provided. In accordanco with
para 1.9 of Guidlines, compulsory
joint values are not pormissible.
4.5     The bidder should have a registered                      This requirement should not be                     Guidelines
local agent.                                            insisted upon for bidding purposes                 Para 1.3
as this would reduce competition.
However, the winning bidder may be
asked to either establish a local
servicing facitity or to nominate
a local representative for purposes
of after saler servicing.
4.6     Bid security has to be urderwritten by                   In order not to adversely affect                   Guidelines
a local bank in Eypt.                                   competition, bidders should be                      Para 1.3
permitted to provide bid security
directly from foreign institutions
acceptable to the Borrow r. Bank/IDA
would not object to iiscluding a liqt
of acceptable foreign banks in the
bidding documents.
4.7     mandatory us* of local source materials.                 Not permissiblo.  However, Bank/IDA                Guidelines
would not chject to the inclusion of               Para 2.2
a statement that the contractors are
encouraged to use the goods and services
available locally.
4.8      Local laws impose import restrictions.                  Not acceptable.  Since such restrictions           Guidelines
would adversely affect competition.                Pars 1.3
Waiver for Bank/IDA*financed contracts
should be obtained.
4.9     Changes in Legislation - Borrower doe  not               The contractor should not be required              Guidelines
want to bear any liability in changes in                 to bear the cost changes due to changes            Para 2.31
legislation.                                            in logislation In all contracts,
including fixed price contracts.
4.10    Reserved insurance and carrier in                        tf Borrower wishes to provide external             Guidelines
transportation,                                         transportation insurance through                    Pare. 2.37
national companies, the related
experditures could be reinbursed from
loan/credit proceeds provided the.
Borrower meets the requirements outlined
in pars 2.37 of the Bank*s Procurement
Guideltnes. Beside, insurance shoutd be
In convertiblo currencies.



50                              AWEX 11
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT
Country Procurement Assesemmnt Report
ITET No.                      I58UE                               RECOu4ENOATION"APPROPRIATE ACTION             REFERENCE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................  .................................  .......................... ....
4.11   Ptblic sector companies my be                          It would be inconsistent with ICB                Cuidelines
may be exempt from supplying bid                      procedures to allow exmptions to                 Pare 1.3
ard performance bondo.                                specific grows. Either sit eligible
bidders should be required to provide
bid and perforimnce security or such
preferred treatments should be
quantiffed into monetary termes for
purposes of bid evaluation.
4.12   Provision of Credit facilities shall                   Permitting quantifieation of credit              Guidelines
be considered in bid evaluation,                      terms would discriminate bidders from            Pars 1.3
developing countries which do not
extend credit facilities to their
national firm and therefore. it
would be inconsistent with the
competitive bidding procedures.
5.      LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
.......... .................................. 
5.1     Local preference of 15X to goods, works               Margins of preference do not apply to            Cuidelinos
and services (unless doeided otherwise                methods of procurement other than ICB.           Pare 3.1;
by the Minister) permitted under LCB.                 No local preferene should apply in               OPN 4.03
procurement under LCU. Ministerial
exemption should be sought for Bank/
IDA-financed contracts. Comparison of
bids would be on delivered cost including
duty nd hence no additional preference
would be reasonable.
5.2    LCD procedures permit that bids received               Exceptions would adversely affect                Guidelines
after bid opening deadline, but during                competitive bidding process and may              Pare 2.45
bid opening session may be accepted                   ceed to abuses. Dids received after
if the delay was beyond the bidder's                  bid closing time specified should
control and if the bid fs In favor of                 not be considered nd should be
the Treasury.                                         returned unopened.
5.3    LCB procedures provide that the Bid                    Practice to negotiate to reduce price            Guidelines
Evaluation Comitte my negotiate                       can be abused nd it wust be made clear           Pare 2.60
with towest bidder to reduce bid to                   under what circtmtwnes this can be
market level prices.                                  permitted. Bid Evalustion Comittee
can negotiate with the lowest evaluated
bidder only when the bid exceeds owner8s
estimated cost by a substantial
amosat.



51                               ANNEX  I I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT
Country Procurement Assessment Report
.....................................
ITEM NO.                      ISSUE                               RECOMMENDATION/APPROPRIATE ACTION              REFERENCE
.......      .....                                ........................................................................................................ .....
5.4     LCB procedures required civil works                    This is acceptable for small works                Guidelines
contractor to verify soundness                        or turnkey contracts in which the                  Par& 2.16
of specifications and designs as though               contractor is responsible for both
they were submitted by himself.                       design and construction.  However, for
other large works, design and
specifications are generally the
responsibility of the Engineer. In
such cases, verification of designs
and design criteria would result in
duptlication of Engineer's responsibility,
increase cost and cause delay and possible
legal implications. Therefore, need
for clarity of the bidding documents
including setting forth clearly the
work and responsibilities of alt
parties including Designer/Engineer and
contractor. The bid documents should
Include procedures to reflect the
provisions of para. 2.16 of the
Guidelines.
5.5     LC0 procedures provide that foreign                    This provision is unclear.  Bidders               Guidelines
bidders may bid in their currency                     are not informed as to which of the                Paras 2.20
but must give value in Egyptian                        two prices are binding and how bids               to 2.26;
Pounds.                                               will be evaluated.  Bidding documents              OPH 4.03
should specify the procedure for
applying exchange rates for bid
evaluation and payment. Normally,
bids should be requested only in one
currency:
(a) Under LCB local currency can be
specified; and
(b) If foreign participation is
expected, procurement should be
ICe.
.6    LCJ procedures require that the                        Bidders should be allowed to modify/              General
withdrawal of bid before bid opening                  withdraw bid prior to bid opening                 Principles
results in loss of bid bond. Bids                     (without loss of bid security).                   of Contracts
my not be withdrem once sudmitted.                                                                       Law



52                                   ANNFX TT
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT
Country Procurement Assessment Report
ITEM NO.                      ISSUE                                RECO14MENOATION/APPROPRIATE ACTION              REFERENCE
..... .............  ........                                       .........................................      ............
5.7     LCB procedures require that once                        Extension of bid validity, in exceptional         General
the validity of bid bond expires,                      circumstances, should be requested in              Principles
if not withdrawn bidder remains                        writing from all bidders before                    of Contracts
committed without any acknowLedge-                     expiration date, and bidders should be             Law
ment.                                                   required to provide suitable extension
of bid security.
December 19, 1989



53
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year               Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                    in Quarter                at End of Quarter
1992
Third Quarter                       2.0                            2.0
Fourth Quarter                      4.0                            4.0
1993
First Quarter                       5.0                           11.0
Second Quarter                      7.0                           18.0
Third Quarter                       8.0                           26.0
Fourth Quarter                      8.0                           34.0
1994
First Quarter                       9.0                           43.0
Secona Quarter                      9.0                           52.0
Third Quarter                       9.0                           61.0
Fourth Quarter                      9.0                           70.0
1995
First Quarter                      10.0                           80.0
Second Quarter                     10.0                           90.0
Third Quarter                      10.0                          100.0
Fourth Quarter                     10.0                          110.0
1996
First Quarter                       8.0                          118.0
Second Quarter                      6.0                          124.0
Third Quarter                       4.0                          128.0
Fourth Quarter                      2.5                          130.5
1997
First Quarter                       2.0                          132.5
Second Quarter                      0.5                          133.0
Project Closing Date: June 30, 1997



54
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Presidential and Prime Ministerial Decrees establishing the Social Fund
for Development (SFD)
2.    Draft SFD Bylaws
3.    Draft SFD Procedural Manuals
4.    Appraisal mission working papers for core programs
5.    Prototype Designs for Municipal Services
6.    Sample Construction Contract
7.    Detailed cost tables of project
8.    Law No. 32 of 1964 concerning Private Associations and Establishments
9.    Background study on the Employment Promotion Program
10.   Background study on The Role of NGOs in Poverty Alleviation in Egypt
11.   Background report entitled "The Private Voluntary Organization Program
in Egypt"
12.   SFD Targeting Study
13.   Background study on the Credit Program for Egyptian Small and
Microentrepreneurs



