D    _cum  of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICaAL USE ONLY
RepOwtNo. P-5561-EGT
.
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF US$140.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
MAY 29, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit    Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1.00       =  LE 3.33 (April 1991)
LE 1.00          US$0.30 (April 1991)
Veij&ts and Measures
1 ki    -  0.62 miles
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABA         Alexandria Businessmen's Association
ATA         Alexandria Transport Authority
BCGC        Banking Credit Guarantee Corporation
BVS         Basic Village Services Project (USAID)
CAPMAS      Central Authority for Public Mobilization and Statistics
CBA         Cairo Businessmen's Association
CS          Community Survey
CTA         Cairo Transport Authority
ERSAP       Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
ILO         International Labor Organization
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IS          Integrated Survey
LD-2        Second Local Development Program (USAID)
LMP         Labor Mobility Plan
MIS         Management Information System
NASCO       Nasr Automotive Services Company
NBD         National Bank for Development
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NUS         Neighborhood Urban Services Program (USAID)
PBDAC       Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit
PERL        Public Expenditure Rationalization Loan
PS          Priority Survey
PVO         Private Voluntary Organization
RSSE        Rural Small-Scale Enterprises Project (USAID)
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SA          Sponsoring Agency
SFD         Social Fund for Development
SME         Small- and Micro-Enterprise Project (USAID)
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID       US Agency for International Development
Government of the Arab Republic of Eft
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
AMS           Of
MrCAL FM3   R0
Cr-edt ad  rOIS.t
Igirgoer:                      Arab Republic of Egypt
Benefacia:                     Social Fund for Development
Cx2Ait Amount:                 SDR 105 million (US$140 million equivalent)
Texas:                         Standard IDA terms
Financing Plan:                                         To Be
Confirmed    gnLiLMedI    Zotda
Donors
IDA                                 140.0           --        140.0
European Community                  140.0           --        140.0
Government/USAID                     55.0           --         55.0
Arab Fund                            50.0           --         50.0
Kuwait Fund                          50.0           --         50.0
Switzerland                          10.0          20,0b/      30.0
Germany                               --           30.00/      30.0
Abu Dhabi Fund                        -            25.0w'      25.0
Denmark                               1.5           8.50       10.0
Canada                                --           10.0f/      10.0
France                                --           10.08       10.0
Sweden                                             100 h/      10.0
Netherlands                           --            6.0         6.0
UNDP                                  4.0           --          4.0
Norway                               2L0            --          2.0
Total                         452.5         119.5       572.0
a/ Pendbig dao f fl =WOMep
bl PndSi *f      ft.e poect documsrtlm and te otome d e Conwl op
d/ PWend Inog rA doft. GoWm  of the d Unld Ateb Em&fe.
*I PendhI DANDA aprislOfdeprec
II/ Pt   A apeal oft. 
I/ Pendwftlr aw=e ofte   doecmntaei
/Pendn   I app_ia df . proec
b dof  prect docmentatI
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Anuraisal Report:        No. 9561-EGT
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the porfornmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NEKORANDUM AND RECOIDINDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERN&TIONAL DEmLVOPNENT ASSOCI&TIw
TO TSR MCUTIEm DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT T TOE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A SOCIAL FMND PROJECT
I submit for approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for SDR 105 million
(US$140 million equivalent).   The credit will support an innovative Government
program designed to help alleviate the negative impacts of the economic adjustment
program and the recent Gulf crisis on Egypt.   The credit will be extended at
standard IDA terms. Part I of this report discusses Egypt's development problems
and prospects, the key priorities of the economic reform program at the
macroeconomic and sector levels, and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II
of the report describes the Social Fund Project and the proposed IDA credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGYM
A. THE ECONOMIC SETTINGa
1.          Over the last four decades, and until very recently, Egypt has pursued
a public-sector-led and inward-looking development strategy stressing social welfare
objectives.   This strategy generated large fiscal and current account deficits
financed (in part) with foreign debt accumulation.   While rapid growth was
experienced in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the impetus behind this growth was
unsustainable. Egypt became unable to service its debts, triggering a substantial
reduction in gross capital inflows and an accumulation of arrears, and making
apparent a heavy external debt overhang.
2.          Egypt has nearly 54 million inhabitants with an average per capita GNP
estimated at US$630 for FY89, calculated using the Atlas methodology, down from
US$730 during FY87-88. Between the mid-1970s and the early 1980s, GDP grew at an
average 9 percent annual rate and was accompanied by significant social progress.
The financing of this progress was made possible because of large inflows of foreign
exchange from foreign assistance and borrowing, oil-related exports (due to
improvements in both volume and terms of trade), workers' remittances, tourism, Suez
Canal revenues, and direct foreign investment.
3.          Egypt's population has benefitted from the comprehensive social welfare
system that was created after the 1952 revolution to provide minimally adequate
living standards  for everyone.   While consumer subsidies have been reduced
considerably over the last five years, for the most part, the same system remains
V This section is a summary of the Report and Recommendation of the President on
the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
a     A recent description and analysis is available in IBRD, Arab Republic of
Egypt - Countrg  Economic Memorandum: Economic Readjustment with Growth.  Report
No. 7447-EGT, February 2, 1990.



2
in effect today, including rigid rent controls, some subsidized food distribution,
free education and health care, as well as provisions for a wide range of other
publtc services at low cost.   These policies succeeded in raising the living
standards of the lowest income groups and in avoiding stressful adjustments for
those with access to controlled goods and services.  At the same time, however,
these policies have contributed to the lIerge budget deficits and to the severe
economic distortions and inefficiencies that now permeate the economy. Although
poverty remains a very serious pioblem, indigence, undernutrition and homelessness
are not as widespread as in some other developing countries with similar per capita
income levels. Since 1960, life expectancy at birth has increased from 41 to 61
years, reflecting, among other factors, the dramatic decline in child death rates,
from 34 to 11 per thousand, and the increase in the average daily caloric intake,
from 88 percent to nearly 130 percent of minimum requirements.
4.          Since the widespread nationalization of businesses in the late 1950s
and early 1960s, Egypt's economy has been dominated by public sector companies,
tightly and rigidly controlled by the different sector ministries on which the/
depend. In spite of the gradual resurgence of private sector activities started
in 1975, over half of total GDP and about two thirds of nonagricultural GDP are
still produced in the public sector; in manufacturing, the public sector share
totals 75 percent. Even agriculture, which is dominated by small private farms,
was strictly regulated up to very recently, with farmers required to produce
according to government dictates and to sell their crops to government monopolies
at  fixed  prices.    The  economy  is  also  characterized  by  massive  resource
misallocation, stemming from a legacy of state intervention, ownership,
monopolization, and central planning. The price and incentive system is highly
distorted, reflecting a multitude of direct price, foreign exchange, and trade
controls.
5.          Inadequate policy adjustments for dealing with these structural problems
have resulted in substantial macroeconomic imbalances. First, with few exceptions,
the fovernment budget has shown an overall deficit (including investments but
excluding debt amortization) of over 20 percent of GDP every year from the mid-
1970s up to, and including, FY88. Such consistently high deficits were financed by
the large inflows of foreign assistance, the substantial surplus from the social
security system, and domestic borrowing cum financial repression and monetization.
Second, foreign imbalances have been high for many years. In the mid-1970s, the
current account deficit of the balance of payments averaged over 15 percent of GDP,
with a level of imports nearly twice that of exports. At that time, Egypt was aided
by a combination of growing oil exports and the sharp increase in oil prices, which
pushed the deficit down to around 5 percent of GDP during the late 1970s and early
1980s.   Despite measures to reduce imp, :ts - which hampered growth,  reduced
employment and accentuated economic distortions and uncertainties - the Government
was not able to reduce the current account deficit below 6 percent of GDP either in
FY89 or FY90.
6.          Reflecting these macroeconomic imbalancss, Egypt's external debt has
grown  dramatically,  reaching  unsustainable  levels.    The  country's  external
indebtedness reached US$8.3 billion in 1976 (equal to 56 percent of GDP with a debt
service ratio of 15-20 percent), and grew to over US$20 billion by 1980 (or 90
percent of GDP). However, since export earnings grew at about the same pace, the
debt service ratio did not worsen appreciably, and debt was not considered by either
creditors or Egyptian policymakers as a major issue.   This situation changed
radically in the mid-1980s when foreign exchange earnings began to stagnate, and the
foreign debt and debt service obligations continued to increase. By 1986, total
external debt reached 120 percent of GDP, with a debt service ratio of 31 percent.



3
The situation clearly had become unmanageable, with access to continued,
unsustainable borrowing sharply curtailed and with arrears accumulating rapidly.
7.          While the May li87 Paris Club debt rescheduling, which followed the
agreement on the IMF Stanidby, provided some temporary relief, it did not
fundamentally improve the situation. By FY90, total external debt had reached close
to US$50 billion, or 132 percent of GDP, with debt service obligations of US$6
billion or nearly half of foreign exchange earnings; less than half of these
obligations were actually paid during the year, while debt arrears further increased
to over US$11 billion. Public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt
(including military) accounted for the bulk of the outstanding debt (US$40 billion);
short-term dobt stood at US$7 billion, while private nonguaranteed debt accounted
for only US$1.1 billion.
8.          The need for adjustment and structural reform is now all the more
evident to Egyptian policymakers because of (a) the growing scarcity of
international financing; (b) the ongoing reform and economic transformation of the
somewrhat similar economies of Eastern Europe; and (c) the high costs of the recent
Gulf crisis and the continued vulnerability of the Egyptian economy to adverse
external shocks.
9.          The Gulf crisis has also had an adverse impact on the Egyptian economy,
with possible serious repercussions in the longer term. It is very difficult to
assess the precise impact of the crisis on Egypt. A plausible estimate for 1990 and
1991 together is about US$3.4 billion (the Government's estimates are much higher),
excluding the cost of refugee assistance. This figure reflects the reductions in
workers' remittances, in tourism receipts and in Suez Canal fees, corresponding to
over 35 percent of Egypt's exports of goods and nonfactor services. The effect on
the budget would be smaller because the most severe impact takes place in the
private sector (workers' remittances, tourism).   The crisis has emphasized the
fragility of the economy and the need for structural adjustment. While there has
been a significant increase in international financial support to Egypt in the
context of the crisis (including debt forgiveness by the United States and a number
of Arab countries amounting to about US$13 billion), the effects of such support
will only be temporary unless basic economic policy changes are made.
B. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES. THE ECONOMIC REFORM AND STRUCTCRAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
General 
10.         The main objectives of the Egyptian Government's current development
efforts include policies to stabilize the economy, structural reform towards the
strengthening of a market economy, which will improve resource allocation and
restore sustainable growth, and the construction of a more adequate social safety
net to mitigate  the effects of the economic reforms on the poor.   Poverty
alleviation and environmental protection are also among the Government's priority
objectives.
Economic Reform And Structural Adiustment Program
11.         The main instrument for leading the country towards its ultimate goal
of sustainable economic growth and improved living standards is the Government's
Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment prograw! (ERSAP). This program, which
began in March 1990,  focuses on three areas:   (i) stabilization,  to restore
macroeconomic balance and reduce inflation; (ii) structural adjustment, to stimulate



4
medium and long term growth; and (iii) modification of current social policies, to
minimize the effect of econom,c reforms on the poor. The measures encompassed in
these areas form a comprehensive and ambitious reform program that has to be pursued
in toto, granting that no lasting progress can be expected in any one of these areas
independent of the other two.  The implementation of stabilization policies and
macroeconomic adjustments is being primarily supported by an IMF Standby, which was
approved by the Fund's Board on May 17, 1991. The Government's implementation of
structural adjustment policies will be assisted by a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL); and the social safety net program will receive support under the proposed IDA
Social Fund Project.
12.         The Government's comprehensive economic reform program consists of the
following components, which have diverse, but economically consistent, aims
and which are supported by the proposed SAL:
a.    Macroeconomic reform aims at curtailing inflation, reducing the current
account and budget deficits, restoring creditworthiness, and bringing
about high and sustainable long-term economic growth.
b.    Public enterDrise reform has as its ultimate objective the increase of
economic efficiency through competition.   To that end, it aims at
privatizing and restructuring public enterprises and at reforming
financial relationships between public enterprises, commercial and
investment banks, and the Government.   Public enterprises are to be
subjected to the same rules and obligations as private enterprises; the
"umbilical cord' between the Government and public enterprises is to be
severed, and access to bank credit is to be strictly based on the
creditworthiness of the individual enterprises. Greater competitiveness
would also be served through greater management autonomy for public
sector enterprises. The role of the Government is to be limited to that
exercised normally by a major shareholder in a large private
corporation; public enterprise managers would have full financial,
commercial and managerial autonomy, including the authority to spin off
nonviable activities, divest assets and liquidate nonprofitable
subdivisions. In addition, the privatization of public enterprises will
be encouraged.
c.    Domestic  price  liberalization  is  intended  to  increase  economic
efficiency through promoting competition and removing government imposed
distortions in the pricing system. As such, it aims at decontrolling
price setting in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, both public
and private (most of the liberalization will be at the beginning of the
period); within three years, most prices will be fully determined by
market forces. In transport, energy and power, prices will be gradually
raised to international or long-term marginal cost levels.
d.   Foreign trade liberalization also has as its ultimate objective the
increase in economic efficiency, to be achieved through the promotion
of import competition and export rivalry and through the removal of
government-imposed distortions in the incentive system. To attain this
objective, trade reform initiated under the ERSAP aims at phasing out
most nontariff barriers to imports and exports within two years,
reducing high customs tariffs and dismantling restrictions on exports.
e.    Private sector reform is intended to increase economic efficiency
through promoting competition and enabling greater market entry, market



5
exit, and factor mobility.  Specifically, it aims at encouraging and
facilitating  private  enterprise  development  through  abolishing
investment and production controls (limiting government intervention to
the granting of specific investment incentives in justifiable cases),
dismantling government monopolies, and phasing out private sector
discrimination in the purchase of inputs from public sector companies.
f.    The Social FLad will help to minimize the effect of further economic
reforms on the poor, in addition to facilitating the reintegration of
Egyptian workers returning from the Gulf states. It will also help with
the institutional arrangements for a program to facilitate labor
mobility.
Poerty Alolevation
13.         Although the social welfare policies that the Government pursued after
1952 helped raise the living standards of the lower income groups in Egypt, poverty
still remains a serious problem (para. 4) The country faces the prospect that, with
the current stabilization measures and the Gulf crisis, its position may deteriorate
further.  Recent figures indicate that, despite the Government's efforts, poor
households still account for 20-25 percent of the Egyptian population, Upper Egypt
and certain parts of the Delta Region being the poorest areas of the country. The
most vulnerable groups include: (i) women and children; (ii) rural farmers with
little or no land; (iii) rural and urban laborers with limited skills; and (iv) the
extremely poor (about 10-13 percent of the population) primarily comprising the
elderly, the sick and the disabled, who are heavily dependent on direct income
transfers.
14.         Given the heterogeneity of the poor in Egypt, the Government must
necessarily adopt a diversif_ed approach targeted to appropriate poverty groups.
Thus, economic incentives will be used to assist the chronic poor already engaged
in economic activity; special health and education services will be offered to
provide for improved access to productive employment for those willing, but unable,
to get jobs. Finally, a welfare approach will be needed for the extremely poor who
are incapable of gainful employment. Malnutrition, inadequate access to safe water
and sanitation and a lack of adequate shelter remain serious problems, particularly
for the poor. In the education sector, despite increased enrollment at all levels,
expansion has not kept pace with population growth.  Illiteracy remains high,
particually among females (62 percent, as against 38 percent among males). About
one-fifth of all school-aged children do not go to school.  To deal with these
problems in the health and education sectors, the Government has been making efforts
to eliminate inefficiencies, reallocate available resources and imrrove the quality
of management.
1orent
15.         The protection of the environment in Egypt is dominated by t.he absolute
need to better develop and manage very limited natural resources--water, land,
energy--in order to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population. A development
strategy based on a more efficient use of such limited resources calls for the
maximum possible expansion of the untapped resource base, the conservation and
optimal use of limited resources, and the more efficient use and conservation of
nonrenewable resources.  Water quality degradation and loss and degradation of
agricultural land are serious threats to the country's economic growth.  These
problems have been worsening for some time, due to increased water pollution, the
excessive use of agrochemicals, the encroachment of urban areas, and inefficient



6
irrigation practices. The pollution of coastal waters is a serious constraint that
will have an adverse impact on the country's tourism and marine resources
development potential. Air quality degradation is prevalent in major cities, with
air pollution posing a serious threat to Egypt's invaluable historic monuments.
Many actions to address these and other environmental problems have been initiated
by the Government. However, the magnitude and urgency of the problems call for
global and coherent strategies to halt serious environmental degradation.   New
strategies will provide for increasing the effectiveness of Egypt's several
environmental institutions, together with an improved legislative base, the
introduction of environmental monitoring systems, and environment-related research
and training programs. A national environmental plan is currently under preparation
by the Government and will be reviewed at an environmental issues workshop in the
fall of 1991. This workshop will agree on a strategy and policy framework, as well
as an action program, for dealing with priority environmental problems.
oli£cv Refopms in Major Sectors
16.         Consistent with the structural reform strategies at the macroeconomic
level, new adjustment and development strategies and policy reforms are being
implemented in major sectors. Among these, the decontrol of prices in the gublic
sector is essential for the creation of a market-based public sector system. It is
important not only to overcome deeply ingrained economic distortions and
inefficiencies, but also to generate additional government revenues and/or reduce
government subsidies to the public sector companies and economic authorities. Over
the last three years, the price control system applicable to public sector business
units has been eased considerably.   In agriculture, many controls were formally
abolished; in addition, existing regulations have been applied less and less
rigorously; and energy and power prices have been raised closer to either border
prices or long-term marginal cost levels. The ERSAP will accelerate this ongoing
process and eliminate most price controls in Egypt.
17.         Substantial progress has been made in adjusting agricultural sector
policies.    The  dismantling of price,  production  and marketing  controls  is
particularly well advanced in this sector. Even though agriculture has been one
of the few important ectnomic sectors with substantial private ownership of the
means of production, economic activities in the sector were tightly controlled.
Farmers were told what to grow, were supplied by state monopolies with the necessary
inputs, and had to sell the bulk of their production to state monopolies at fixed
prices. Important components of this system have been discontinued over the 1986-
91 period, and the last phases of this decontrol and liberalization process will
soon be completed.   Price deregulation is well advanced and will be largely
completed by 1992/93. The prevailing controls on crop area, and the pricing and
marketing of agricultural products, will be eliminated. Liberalization has now
been complete for most crops.  In addition, the Government has proceeded wXith a
program to privatize its land holdings and many of the activities that have been
carried out by the state in the past. In accordance with the Government's strategy
to liberalize pricing and rely on the market to determine prices, rice delivery
quotas were completely abolished in 1991. Subsidies have been reduced for livestock
feed, fertilizers, and pesticides and the remaining subsidies will be eliminated
completely by FY92/93 for all inputs. The role of the private sector in the trading
of these items is being increased substantially, while the role of the public sector
in such activities will be reduced and eventually eliminated. Reform in the cotton
subsector poses a high degree of institutional and political complexity, for
historical reasons as well as because of the economic interdependence of the
agricultural and industrial sectors.  The Government is ( n,itted to a program that
makes the relevant border prices the main determinant 1:  decision-making in the



13
with the Government possible assistance to help rehabilitate cotton processing and
other marketing infrastructure.
34.         Growth in Egypt's industrial sector halted between 1981 and 1989, with
ground lost in the export markets.   Given that public sector enterprises still
account for a considerable part of value added in the sector, their improved
performance is essential for growth during 1991-93. Measures are needed to induce
both domestic and international competition, by allowing private sector entry in
activities competing with existing (private and public) producers and eliminating
favorable treatment for public enterprises (para. 34). The Bank's SAL will address
these and several other objectives. A private sector regulatory environment study
will be undertaken by the Bank this summer to recommend actions to create a more
friendly environment for the private sector in Egypt.
35.         In the transport sector, the Bank's priorities are to increase capacity
utilization, improve operation and maintenance practices, promote appropriate
pricing, and strengthen the existing institutions. Certain of the necessary policy
changes, such as the phasing out of subsidies inherent in rail and intercity bus and
truck tariffs, and the cross subsidization of intracity bus tariffs to keep them
within reach of the poorest segments of the population, are being addressed through
the proposed SAL and the Social Fund Project.   In updating its 1988 Transport
Strategy, the Bank will focus on progress made with the financial restrn-turing of
land transport organizations and port capacity utilization.
36.         In the tourism sector, the Bank's emphasis will be on ensuring the
timely availability of required infrastructure to support tourism development, in
particular on the Red Sea Coast; on avoiding environmentally detrimental
investments; and on protecting Egypt's archeological heritage through adequate on-
site management. In the urban development sector, the primary objectives of the
Bank strategy will be:  (i) enhancing the effective administrative and financial
management of urban centers; and (ii) improving land-use patterns and finding
solutions to problems plaguing the housing sector, such as the limited availability
of formal finance, rent controls, and insufficient affordable serviced land. To
understand better the urban and financial management of the cities, an urban sector
study will be undertaken.
37.         In the water supply and sewerage sector, the main Bank objectives will
be: (i) to improve cost recovery by introducing adequate tariff levels with a
progressive structure; (ii) to preserve existing assets by introducing better
maintenance and operating practices; (iii) to increase water supply and sewerage
coverage and quality (particularly for the urban poor); and (iv) to expand waste
water treatment to combat water pollution.    A Bank sector review will aim at
assessing current sector performance; identifying the main constraints preventing
more efficient, accelerated development; elaborating, with the Government, a program
of sector reform; and defining a strategy for future Bank support for the sector.
38.         In the social sectors,  the Bank will promote an integrated human
resources and social development strategy to support the Government' , efforts to
have a highly trained labor force to improve the productivity of the economy and to
sustain its long-term growth.  Such a development strategy may include, lntgr iLL,
policies .(i) to deal with rapid population growth; (ii) to improve the quality,
efficiency and equity of health and education delivery systems in a financially
constrained environment; (iii) to increase the relevance of the technical/vocational
education and training system by promoting a closer relationship between training
institutions and employers and making the training system more responsive and better
adapted to the needs of the economy; (iv) to alleviate Egypt's continuing poverty



14
problem, including assistance in the creation of a sustainable social safety net;
(v) to give prominence to environmental concerns that directly affect the health and
safety of the population; (vi) to promote resource mobilization and cost recovery;
and (vii) to integrate women more fully into the development process, notably by
improving their access to basic social services and participation in productive
activities.   The Bank will undertake a women-in-development sector study to
contribute to the Bank's understanding of the issues affecting women in Egypt.
39.         Possible Bank/IDA lending operations over the next few years,  in
addition go the proposed adjustment loans noted above, include projects in
agriculture  (National  Drainage,  West  Nubaria  Agriculture  Intensification,
Agricultural Mechanization); energy/industry (Gas Investment, Kureimat Energy
Development, Industrial Pollution/Energy Conservation); infrastructure (Railways,
Tourism/Privatization); and population/health/nutrition (Social Fund, Health).
IFS EQ.eFrations
40.         IFC  participation  and  lending  commitments  in  Egypt,  net  of
cancellations, repayments, exchange adjustments, write-offs and sales, totalled
US$63.9 million as of March 31, 1991.   Most IFC activities have been lending
operations, including the financing of projects for an agricultural complex,
building materials in Suez, and a reinforcing bar at El-Dikheila. Most recently,
IFC approved two projects, one for tourism investment and another for pulp paper
and paperboard manufacturing. IFC has also provided technical assistance in the
design of incentives to private sector iuvestments and in the development of the
capital market.
The Bank Group Exposure
41.         The Bank Group's ability to maintain an expanded lending program for
Egypt will depend on continued implementation of the reform effort, which is needed
to ensure Egypt's creditworthiness. Assuming a continuation of the reform effort,
the proposed Bank program may translate into commitments of about US$1.5 billion in
Bank and IDA resources over the FY92-94 period. The Bank's exposure would remain
-relatively low in FY94; the Bank/IDA debt service would be 6.4 percent of total debt
service and 2.2 percent of exports, and the Bank/IDA debt would be 7.2 percent of
total debt.
Collaboration With Other Aid Agencies
42.         The Bank Group program is predicated on substantial support by the donor
community through exceptional and regular flows at highly concessional terms, and
through debt  relief and/or debt rescheduling at favorable  terms.    So far,
substantial help of this kind has been forthcoming, and prospects for mcre debt
relief are good.   In addition,  a number of donors are providing significant
technical assistance in specific areas of the reform program.   It is important,
however, that the flows of financial support into Egypt be well coordinated and
focussed on supporting the top priority investments and programs. To this end, at
the request of the Government, the Bank is in the process of organizing a
Consultative Group for Egypt. Efforts are also being made to increase cofinancing
under Bank operations. The Bank has been closely consulted in the preparation of
the IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA). Likewise, the Fund has been consuited during
the preparation of the Bank's SAL, particularly on all aspects concerning the
macroeconomic framework, including pricing policies and subsidy reductions. In more
general terms, Bank-Fund collaboration on Egypt has been very close (e.g., cross
mission participation and jointly held discussions with the Government).



15
PMRT II - SOCIAL FUND PROJWEC  AND THE PROPOSED IDA CEDIT
43.         I(S]ou2d.  Faced with severe economic problems exacerbated by rapid
population growth, the Government of Egypt has walked a thin line between enacting
essential economic reforms and maintaining so -ial and political stability in recent
years. Since the summer of 1989, the Government has intensified its discussions
with the IMF and the Bank/IDA with a view to strengthening its adjustment efforts,
and significant progress has been made in identifying a reform strategy. This new
strategy *s encompassed by the Government's far-reaching Economic Reform  and
Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP), which focuses on three areas: (i)
stabilization to restore macroeconomic balance and redukce inflation; (ii) structural
adjustment to stimulate medium- and long-term growth; and (iii) efforts to minimize
the effects of economic reform on the poor. It is anticipated that the first two
of these areas will be addressed, respectively, by a recently approved IMF Stand-
by Arrangement and a proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) by the Bank,
respectively; the third area will be in the domain of this project.
44.         While the implementation of the ERSAP, combined with a proposed public
enterprise reform program, will, in the longer term, stimulate economic growth and
employment creation, the realizatton of these positive effects will likely be
preceded by a period of economic retrenchment, characterized by a decline in real
incomes, rising unemployment, lower subsidie-, and rapidly contracting government
expenditures on social programs and public services.
45.         The various existing social programs and transfer mechanisms operated
by the Government, while offering some degree of broad and very shallow coverage to
the bulk of the population, have been very costly in terms of bu.rden on the budget,
market distortions and misallocation of resources, and do not constitute an adequate
safety net to protect tt-i most vulnerable members of Egyptian society. The real
value of benefits receivsd by retirees and others insured through the general social
security system currently in place is also increasingly threatened by management
inefficiencies, underfunding and the absence of mechanisms to adjust benefits in
response to inflation. What is needed is a combination of (i) immediate actions to
protect the low-income population groups from economic hardship and improve their
access to productive employment and assets; and (ii) structural measures to achieve
a more equitable and efficient targeting of all social programs, especially those
involving subsidies and direct welfare payments (underpinned by effective monitoring
and information systems), thus ensuring that resources reach the most needy groups
while lowering the cost of programs to the Government.
46.         Concern  regarding  the  negative  impacts  of  the  reform  program,
particularly on the lower income groups, who represent nearly one quarter of the
Egyptian population, has intensified in recent months as the effects of the recent
Gulf crisis have placed additional strains on Egypt's economy. The Government now
faces the prospect of providing for the economic and social integration of some
380,000 Egyptiar. workers and family members estimated to have returned from
countries affected by the Gulf crisis. In addition, the anticipated steep decline
in remittances from these workers could have a devastating effect on the poorer
segmei *.s of Egypt's population.
47.         Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The creation of an effective social
safety net associated with the Government's agreement to undertake a reform program
is critical not only to the well-being of the Egyptian people, but also to the



16
success of the reform effort. Unless the Government can show that it is taking
effective steps to protect the poor, the population may be reluctant to tolerate and
sustain the radical reforms that are needed. During the identification of the SAL
program, IDA was asked to assist the Government in the preparation of a set of
programs that would assist the low-income population groups most directly affected
by the structural adjustment reforms. The proposed project will encompass a broad
range of such programs emphasizing employment and income provision, maintenance of
essential public services, and socioeconomic development actions for the poor, with
particular emphasis on activities for women. The project will also allow IDA to
take an active role in respondirtg to the Gulf crisis by facilitating the economic
integration of Egyptian returnees from Iraq and Kuwait.   The strengthening of
targeting, monitoring and evaluation systems through studies and su.veys under this
project will lay the basis for substantive improvements in Government subsidy and
direct transfer mechanisms with continued IDA support through a possible follow-
up operation.   With its growing experience in social fund operations in other
countries and contexts, IDA can play a useful role in supporting the establishment
of the Social Fund for Development, and can act as a catalyst to bring in
substantial additional concessional financing from other donors.
48.         Prolect Obiective.  The project's main objective is to reinforce the
prospects of success of the reforms to be undertaken and supported by the
Government's ERSAP, through measures that will (i) initiate, stimulate and enable
a program of actions that will help soften both the initial adverse effects of the
reform process and the negative impacts of the Gulf crisis on Egypt; and (ii)
establish mechanisms to protect selected target population groups (e.g., displaced
public enterprise workers, households headed by females, and unskilled and semi-
skilled unemployed workers) in Egypt from the likely longer-term adverse effects of
adjustment.
49.         Project Concept and Description.   In line with this objective, the
proposed project will support a set of core programs, comprising numerous small
subprojects, that will (i) in the short term, address the immediate and pressing
needs of target groups, and (ii) in the medium term, strengthen the Government's
capacity to design and monitor poverty alleviation policies, and help promote the
institutional capacity to develop and/or modify new or existing social programs,
including safety net programs. This will serve as a first step toward the emergence
of a modern and efficient social security system, to be supported by future
interventions, including a possible follow-up social fund operation. The proposed
project has thus been explicitly designed, in the first instance, around income and
employment generating activities rather than as a major expansion of existing poorly
targeted and inefficient direct assistance schemes. The core programs have been
selected and appraised on the basis of their ability to respond quickly and
substantially to the demonstrated and anticipated income, e.£ployment and essential
public service needs of disadvantaged Egyptians, within the estimated absorptive
capacity constraints of their relevant sectors. Systemic problems in these sectors,
which act to fundamentally constrain sector capacity and efficiency, are being
addressed separately through other sector investment operations.    Given the
likelihood of additional funding by some donors, core programs could be expanded in
size and scope, within the context of the proposed operation, in response to changes
in Egypt's situation affecting the absorptive capacities for the programs. All
financing provided by SFD will be incremental to normal Government budgetary
allocations.
50.         Specifically, the proposed project will comprise the six core programs
described below:



17       1
(a)   the Provision of Essential Municipal Services program will help improve
and maintain essential public services at the local level in the face of budgetary
contractions, and provide employment opportunities for disadvantaged Egyptian
workers.   The program will entail numerous small, labor-intensive public workL.
subprojects carried out by local, private contractors with local labor, including
investments (construction and rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage systems,
streets and roads, etc.) and maintenance activities (cleaning of canals and
buildings, solid waste collection, etc.). Priority will be given to areas with high
poverty incidence and unemployment rates, thus creating income earning opportunities
and providing basic services for many of the poor who are most vulnerable to the
negative impacts of the adjustment process (US$255 million);
(b)   the ImDrovements to Essential Public Transport Services program will
finance the purchase of spare parts and vehicles for the two existing metropolitan
bus companies (Greater Cairo and Alexandria) in order to improve the crucial role
of public mass transportation in bringing together, especially for unskilled low-
wage workers, locationally mismatched demand and supply for labor (US$53 million);
(c)   the Community Development program will include improvements in basic
and primary health care provision, immunization programs, mother and child nutrition
programs, child care center upgrading, short-term literacy and practical training
programs, and a variety of self-help productive activities implemented by
participating local community groups, thus ensuring extended coverage of these
essential services among the poorest and most vulnerable groups (US$42 million);
(d)   the Enterorise DeveloRment program will fund the delivery of integrated
packages of technical assistance, training and credit to assist (i) returning
workers in establishing small enterprises, (ii) unemployed people in starting up
productive activities, and (iii) existing small enterprises in expanding/extending
their businesses and creating new jobs. Loans will be at market rates and will use
existing financial intermediaries (US$120 million);
(e)   the Labor Mobility program will establish and activate mechanisms to
facilitate redeployment of workers displaced by public enterprise reform.
Assistance provided will include appropriate selections of the following:
counseling, (re)training, placement, compensation, and technical and other support
to promote the redeployment of such workers to growing industries and the
development by them of productive, income-generating activities (US$91 million);
and
(f)   the Institutional Development program will finance the administrative
and operating costs of SFD, training and technical assistance for project
implementation, and surveys and studies to strengthen SFD's targeting, monitoring
and evaluation systems, including the development of enhanced mechanisms for: (i)
better targeting of subsidies, (ii) protecting essential public services used by
the poor, and (iii) improving the efficiency of various direct transfer schemes,
as a first step in assisting the Government to rationalize its social assistance
programs (US$11 million).
51.         The proposed project has, in part, been designed to expand and replicate
existing programs, and will be implemented under the auspices of a newly-created
apex agency, the Social Fund for Development (SFD), which will serve as a mechanism
to mobilize international and local financial resources.   SFD will select and
appraise subprojects for funding, and supervise their implementation according to
evaluation procedures, methodologies and criteria agreed with IDA. Subprojects will
be proposed and implemented by sponsoring agencies (SAs), which may be ministries,



18
governorates, financial institutions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), or
local community agencies. To allow for a rapid start in project activities while
retaining flexibility in the nature of subprojects to be financed over the life of
th- project, some but not all of the subprojects to be financed under the programs
have been specifically identified during the project preparation process.
52.         In order to ensure effective targeting of benefits, SFD will provide
guidance to SAs in developing subproject proposals.   At first,  the targeting
approach used will of necessity be rough, but as results from surveys identifying
the extent and location of vulnerable target groups become available, more precision
will be gained.   In addition, the programs are designed to encourage, whenever
practical, participation by beneficiaries in subproject conception and execution-
-the harnessing of community initiatives will be considered an indispensable
supplement to the activities of public agencies.
53.         Project Costs and Financing.   Total project costs are estimated at
US$572 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$180 million (32 percent).
IDA's contribution of US$140 million will be used to finance 25 percent of all
expenditures under the project. The Government's contribution of US$55 million,
through a grant from USAID, will cover about 10 percent of total costs. Cofinancing
on concessionary terms from various donors of US$257 million equivalent has been
confirmed; an additional US$120 million in cofinancing has been indicated by donor
agencies but not yet confirmed. Project cost estimates and the financing plan are
provided in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement are
shown in Schedule B. The timetable of key processing events and the status of Bank
Group operations in Egypt are presented in Schedules C and D, respectively.
54.         Prolect Phasing.  It is envisaged that project activities will begin
simultaneously, but will reach fruition in two phases.  The initial phase will
comprise a core program requiring relatively little start-up time, including
training and technical assistance, labor-intensive public works, imports of spare
parts for the public transport sector, and surveys and studies.   As publicity
efforts broaden public awareness of the available assistance programs, the remaining
project activities will gain momentum by the beginning of the project's second year.
Included in this second phase will be programs to provide credit for
microenterprises and productive activities, improve basic community services, and
develop a labor exchange mechanism for displaced public enterprise employees.
Thereafter, the design of programs will remain sufficiently flexible to be guided
by the development and refinement of targeting mechanisms and to accommodate other
initiatives by governmental and non-governmental organizations as the adjustment
process proceeds.  As an allowance for potential deviations from the expected
Implementation schedule, additional flexibility has been built into the project to
permit the reallocation of funds from low-performing programs to high-performing
ones, subject to annual review and approval by IDA.
55.         Asreements Reached. During negotiations, agreement with the Government
was reached: (a) on the eligibility, appraisal, selection, supervision and
evaluation criteria for subprojects to be financed by SFD; (b) that all framework
agreements between SFD and sponsoring agencies will be submitted for IDA review, and
SFD will not begin disbursements to an SA until framework agreements between the SA
and SFD are signed and the SA's core staff is in place; (c) that annual joint
reviews will be held with IDA to discuss SFD's work plan for the upcoming year and
to assess the levels at which SFD funds are allocated to the proposed project's core
programs; (d) that SFD will provide IDA with an overall plan of the municipal
services program, detailing the geographic distribution of activities to be funded,
and in accordance with agreed eligibility and selection criteria, by October 31,



19
1991; (e) that SFD will establish by June 30, 1992, in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, a labor mobility technical unit, and will provide,
for IDA's review, a model framework agreement for the implementation of the
redeployment activities by December 31, 1992; (f) that the preparation and appraisal
guidelines and a model Labor Mobility Plan (LMP) contract for the Labor Mobility
Program will be submitted to IDA for approval, and that the first three LMPs will
be subject to IDA review; and (g) that promotional campaigns and subproject
identification activities will begin no later than October 31, 1991 for all SFD
programs. Approval of SFD's operating procedures and executive regulations by the
SFD Board will be a condition of Credit signing.   As a condition of Credit
effectiveness,  all conditions necessary for the effectiveness  of Cofinancing
Agreements  totaling at least US$100 million equivalent will need to be met.
Finally, as a condition of disbursement of the IDA Credit, signature of framework
agreements, approved by IDA, between SFD and at least two SAs will be required for
each program.
56.         Environmental Impact.  Through the support of labor-intensive public
works--mainly for basic water supply and sewage systems, and solid waste removal
in low-income rural and urban areas--the proposed project will contribute to
alleviating environmental problems related to the lack of access to safe water and
adequate sanitation, which constitute a serious environmental hazard because of the
large incidence of water- and refuse-borne diseases. Also, project-sponsored tree-
planting operations will contribute to windbreaking and sand dune stabilization,
as preventive measures to desertification. However, both the Municipal Services and
Enterprise Development programs, although focusing on small-sized activities, may
still have negative environmental impacts. The proposed project review, under the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Appendix A, "Environmental Assessment",
has classified activities to be financed under the Municipal Services Program as
category "A", while activities under the Enterprise Development Program have been
classified as category "B". The remaining programs have been placed in category
"C".   Environmental concerns will be addressed through design and monitoring
criteria to be agreed with IDA and incorporated into each framework agreement
between SFD and sponsoring agencies. Furthermore, SFD will employ two environmental
specialists to work closely with the Municipal Services and Enterprise Development
Departments to ensure compliance with the criteria.
57.         Benefits.   By supporting the establishment of SFD, the project will
contribute  to protecting Egypt's most vulnerable  groups,  including the Gulf
returnees, from the negative social impacts of the adjustment program and the Gulf
crisis. The primary beneficiaries will be unemployed workers (including displaced
public enterprise employees and Gulf returnees) and people living in impoverished
communities. Special attention will be given to improvements in the economic and
social situation of women through increased participation in productive activities
and better access to basic social services. It is anticipated that the Municipal
Services Program will generate over 26,000 person-years of temporary employment in
construction activities and close to 15,000 permanent job opportunities in operation
and maintenance activities. It is also estimated that over 2 million persons could
benefit through improved income, conditions of living, and access to basic services.
Likewise, significant benefits will be realized from the public transport program
through the improved access to productive activities it will provide to impoverished
segments of the Cairo and Alexandria populations. Under the Enterprise Development
Program, substantial employment opportunities will be generated and the development
of private sector initiatives and entrepreneurship will be stimulated and supported
through an estimated 70,000 microenterprises to be funded, thus helping to reduce
Egypt's overdependence on the public sector.   Furthermore, the establishment of
labor mobility mechanisms will allow the Government to deal more effectively with



20
the anticipated increase in unemployment resulting from the economic and public
enterprise reform measures. Additional benefits will include (i) the strengthened
capacity of sponsoring agencies to design, provide and sustain income generation,
nutrition, health and education services for the poor, and (ii) the mobilization of
additional external resources for poverty alleviation activities.
58.         Risk. The main risk faced by the project is that SFD may be subjected
to political pressures that could force subproject choices inconsistent with agreed
selection criteria.  To minimize this risk, a subproject review process will be
established involving IDA approval of both the subproject selection criteria and the
framework agreements between SFD and sponsoring agencies; and effective monitoring
and auditing procedures will be developed to ensure transparency in the operation
of SFD and its subprojects. Selected subpxojects will also be periodically reviewed
by IDA to ensure adherence to the procedures and criteria. Closely related is the
risk of weak or unsustainable implementation, either because the related SAL is less
successful than contemplated in setting a policy framework to encourage economic
reform and private sector development, or because of limited absorptive or
institutional capacities, the possibilities of which are increased by the absence
of comprehensive reform of the civil service and social security systems (relegated
to the next stage of the adjustment process). Three project features are designed
to mitigate this risk: (i) specific selection guidelines, training and incentives
will be provided to ensure the abilities of SFD and sponsoring agency staff to carry
out the programs, and their dedication to do so; (ii) technical assistance and
training programs will improve the institutional capacities of relevant government
agencies and finance feasibility studies to plan further related reform steps and
policy measures; and (iii) the project has been flexibly designed to allow the
reallocation of SFD funds from low-performing activities to higher-performing ones.
Finally, there is a risk that the project will elevate the delivery of public
services above sustainable levels. To minimize this risk, all public works and
service improvements will be planned and approved at the governorate level, in
accordance with criteria approved by IDA, and incorporated into framework agreements
between SFD and the governorates, ensuring that future recurrent cost implications
will be considered.   In addition, working relationships between SFD and key
government agencies will be established (e.g., through the secondment of agency
staff and assignment of advisors to SFD) to help them develop and/or adapt SFD
programs that may merit subsequent bilateral or multilateral support on an expanded
scale. While the sustainability risk is not expected to be completely eliminated
by these measures, the beneficial effects of the repairs and new investments,
combined with the income distribution effects generated by the labor-intensive
construction methods to be used, will more than compensate for this risk.
Furthermore, the project will fund an important expenditure review aimed at
identifying and then protecting the essential public services used by the poor. It
should be possible to apply the results of this study to the enhanced services
created under this project to enable their sustainability.
59.         l.£Sedaion. I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit will comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 28, 1991



21
Shgedule A
ARAB ARMC 0O
gstimated Cost and FinzaCiza Plan
Estimated Protect Costs
Local   Foreign    Toal
------ (US$ million)  -
A.  Municipal Services                     165.1    52.5       217.6
B.  Public Transport                        10.0    40.0        50.0
C.  Community Development                   14.1    22.8        36.9
D.  Enterprise Development                  80.8    28.8       109.5
E.  Labor Mobility                          68.1    13.9        82.0
F.  Institutional Development                6.4      3.4        9.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                       344.6     161.4    506.0
Physical Contingencies                   18.8       6.9      25.7
Price Contingencies                      28.5      12.2      40.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        391.9     180.5     572.3
Nab: Tabt  my net ed up due to rudin
Financinj Plan                                       To Be
ConfiDond grnsLXNAtV   Total
IDA                               140.0          --        140.0
European Community                140.0          --        140.0
Government/USAID                   55.0          --         55.0
Arab Fund                          50.0          --         50.0
Kuwait Fund                        50.0                     50.0
Switzerland                        10.0         20.0b/      30.0
Germany                             --          30.0/      30.0
Abu Dhabi Fund                       --         25.0d/      25.0
Denmark                             1.5          8.5'/      10.0
Canada                              --          10.0/      10.0
France                              --          10.09/      10.0
Sweden                              --          10.0h/      10.0
Netherlands                         --           6.0'/       6.0
UNDP                                4.0          --          4.0
Norway                              2.0          -- 
Total                       452. 5       119.5S      572.0
a/ Peing donoriflrd _onttnatL
b/ Pending fner aniWet o thepd doumenain
0/  Peningh fwhr  af~ the  d_aaneultiw  an  teoutcomeo tet Conalh  GroP meeing
d/  PZendin   p,io  het Gomnmhht of th  Untd HArdbd mbutee.n
b/ Penn t~er reetfe proqect documffentatio
h/Pending SIOA _prli cthe 
C/ Pend%ng ftW,    ot thetC  documentain



22
Sehedule Bf
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPMBLIC 1E 1
SOCIAL PUn n cs
Procurement Nethod  and Di8sbsmens
Procurement Nethods (US$ million)
No. of      Procurement Methods      Total
Cntracts                      Other*
1. Goods anLd Equipment
Municipal Services              55         48.3    5.0      1.1     54.4
Public Transport                30         43.0    9.0      1.0     53.0
Community Development           65         19.0    4.0     0.4      23.4
Labor Mobility                  10          0.7    0.2     0.1       1.0
Institutional Development       10          0.5    0.1     0.1       0.7
Sub-Total Goods and                                _
Equipment                    170        111.5   18.3     2.7    132.5
(27.3)  (4.5)   (0.6)   (32.4)
2. Civil Works
Municipal Services             400          4.0  162.4      9.5    175.9
Sub-Total Civil Works          400          4.0  162.4     9.5    175.9
(1.0) (39.7)   (2.3)   (43.0)
3. Credit Funds
Community Development           75          2.0    5.0     0.7       7.7
Enterprise Development        1000          8.0   84.0     6.2      98.2
Sub-Total Micro-              1075         10.0   89.0     6.9    105.9
enterprises                              (2.5) (21.8)   (1.6)   (25.9)
4. Services
Personnel                     N.A.                          7.8     7.8
Operation & Maintenance        300          2.0   35.6      2.0     39.6
Technical Assistance          N.A.         16.9    3.5      1.2     21.6
Sub-Total Services             300         18.9   39.1    11.0      69.0
(4.6)  (9.6)   (2.7)   (16.9)
5. Training
Retraining                     120         23.0    7.0    38.7    68.7
Cash Supplement                N.A.                       20.3    20.3
Sub-Total Training             120         23.0    7.0    59.0    89.0
(5.7)  (1.7)  (14.4)  (21.8)
TOTAL                         2056        167.4  315.8    89.1   572.3
(41.1) (77.3)  (21.6) (140.0)
*e Figures In parentheses are dh  rspeth  anounts to be fnaced by IDA.
*  barn under Othi cdegmy aould Include USO and loca and Intenata sOx""n.



23
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
IBRD Disbursements
X of
Amount      Expenditures
GagAggoXX    DgggXiptio                    USS Million  To be Financed
1        Works under Municipal             40.0      25 percent of amovnts
Services Program                           disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
2        Spare parts and equipment         14,0      25 percent of amounts
under Public Transport Program             disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
3        Community Development             10.0      25 percent of amounts
activities                                 disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
4        Credit under Enterprise           44.0      25 percent of amounts
Development Program                        disbursed by SFD under
the relevant Framework
Agreements
5        Training, equipment, tools        24.0      25 percent
and financial assistance
under Institutional
Development Program
6        Technical assistance               4.0      25 percent
7        Unallocated                        4.0
TOTAL                            140.0
Estimated ItDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
-(US$ million)----------------
Annual                     6.0    28.0    36.0    40.0    26.0       4.0
Cumulative                 6.0    34.0    70.0   110.0   136.0   140.0



24
Schedule C
ARMB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOCIAL    D PRJCT
Timetable of Key Project Processina Events
1.  Time Taken to Prepare:                 12 Months
2.  Prepared By:                           Government with Bank Assistance
3.  First IBRD Mission:                    March 1990
4.  Appraisal Mission Departure:           March 1991
5.  Negotiations:                          May 16-17, 1991
6.  Planned Date of Effectiveness:         September 30, 1991
7.  List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:       n.a.



25
Schedule D
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BAEK LCANS AND IDA CREDITg3'
(As of March 31, 1991)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved         Borrower         Purpose                       (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                      Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
65 Loans and Credits fully disbursed/                                      1,578.0    799.1
Ln 1886-1          84        EEA       Power III                             59.0       --            18.6
Cr 1083            81        ARE       New Land Development                  --         80.0           0.42'
Cr 1156            81        ARE       Beheira Water Supply                  --         56.6          11.23
Cr 1162            81        ARE       Technical Assistance                  --          6.9           2.73
Ln 2176            82        ARE      Greater Cairo Urban Development        54.0       --             9.0
Ln 2183            83        ARE       El Dikheila Port                      56.2       --             6.4
Lu 2264            83        ARE      Vocational Training                    33.1       --            16.6
Ln 2270            83        ARE       Irrigation Pump. Stations Rehab. I   41.5        --            11.0
Lu 2458            84        ARE       Small and Med. Scale Ind.            170.0       --           127.4
Ln 2459            84        ARE      Export Industry                       102.2       --            84.5
Lu 2460            84        ARE      Construction Industry                  51.6       --            50.7
Lu 2561            85        ARE      Agricultural Development II            80.0       --            26.3
Ln 2562            8S        ARE      Drainage V                             63.0       --            37.3
LK 2569            8S        PSPA      Port Said Port                        20.0                      2.9
Ln 2594            85        ARE      Vocational Training (Electricity)      19.3       __            16.4
Lu 2732            86        ARE      Channel Maintenance                    45.0       --            39.8
Ln 30712!          89        ARE      Agricultural Storage                   40.0       --            40.0
Lu 3103            89        EEA       Power IV                             165.0       --           164.4
Ln 31374           90        ARE       Engineering & Tech. Education         30.5       --            30.5
Lu 31984           90        ARE       Irrig. Pump. Stations Rehab. II       31.        _             31.0
Totals                                                                    2,639.4      942.6         727.1
Of which has been repaid                                                    831.3       30.1
Total now outstanding                                                     1,808.1      912.5
Amount sold                                  7.5
Of which has bean repaid                     7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                         1.808.1       912.5
/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in
execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced, and a US$1 million PPF advance granted
for the Greater Cairo Urban Development project, and an EEC Special Action Credit of US$35.0 million equivalent
for the Shoubrab El Kheima Thermal Power Project.
IV Credit denominated in SDRs. Amount shown is US$ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and
US$ equivalent at March 31, 1991, for the undisbursed amount.
El Not yet effective.



26
?ago 2 ot 2
0111
L - STAThAENT OF IFC IVESSIElNT
(As of March 31, 1991)
Fiscal
Yeor  Obtigor                     Type of Buainess                       Loan       Equity    Total
---I--- USS Million)--------
86    Aluminum Sulihate Co.       Chesicals & Petrocbeicals                 -        0.57        0.57
78,62   Arab Cerd ic Company        Ceramic Industry                         6.63      1.26        7.89
78    Nilo Clothing Company       Ready-Made Garment ludustry              0.43      0.32        0.75
78,83   Delta Sugar Cmp#ny          haricultural Production, mainly sugar  20.00       5.50       25.50
79.83   Isneilia Mier               Food and Food Processing                12.07      2.29       14.36
Poultry CQomPnr
as   Esypt Invss"tmet             Securities FitmS                         1.50      0.13        1.63
Finance Corp.
80,81.83 tosmailia Fish Farming     Food and Food Processing                 3.96       1.05        5.01
80    Sues Ceesnt Company         Buildins Materials                      30.00        -         30.00
84    El-Dikhoila                 Iron and Steel                          95.20       11.79    106.99
62.80   Lux"r gotel                 Tourism Project                          4.41        1.37       5.78
86   mNleh  Oil0  Dev.           Chemicols and Potrochc dial.s             -        28.70       20.70
a Explratlea Proj.
88    Behtl 74ypt S.A.E.         Real Ectate and Business Services         -         0.10        0.10
68    Pboents Resouaes Co.        En ss"                                  20.00        -         20.00
91    Al Bar"d                    P  p paper ad FaPerbeard                 6.20        -          6.20
S1    Victoria United             Tourism                                ..30 .       La
Total Greos CosmitO  t                                                     205.70      53.60      259.30
Los:  Cancelluations  terminations. repyments. exchange
dwjustmets, writeof   d  * ale                                    173l        19S        195.2U
Total eomitments am beld by NC                                              IRA        33-9        U.
Total Undisbunze df                                                                     LII        21JD
(includig petloipets partion)



