Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2276 EGT
               (Social Fund for Development Project)
                              between
                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 26, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2276 EGT
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1991, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project and in mobilizing resources for it;
      (B)   to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends
to contract:
            (1)   a grant from the European Economic Community in
                  an amount equivalent to about $140,000,000;
            (2)   a loan on concessionary terms from the Arab Fund
                  for Social and Economic Development in an amount
                  equivalent to about $50,000,000;
            (3)   a loan on concessionary terms from the Kuwait
                  Fund for Arab Economic Development in an amount
Page  2
                  equivalent to about $50,000,000;
            (4)   a non-reimbursable contribution from the Govern-
                  ment of the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) in
                  an amount equivalent to $30,000,000;
            (5)   a grant from the United Nations Development
                  Program in an amount of about $4,000,000;
            (6)   a grant from the Government of Kingdom of Norway
                  in an amount equivalent to about $2,000,000; and
            (7)    a grant from the Government of the Kingdom of
                   Denmark in an amount equivalent to about
                   $1,500,000;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "SFD" means the Social Fund for Development, an agency
established under the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 40 of 1991;
      (b)   "Sub-project" means a project for public works under
Part A of the Project;
      (c)   "EA" means a local government body, or any other agency,
approved by SFD as an executing agency for a Sub-project under Part
A of the Project;
      (d)   "CTA" means the Cairo Transport Authority, referred to
in Part B of the Project, a public authority operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 61 of 1963;
      (e)   "ATA" means the Alexandria Transport Authority, referred
to in Part B of the Project, a public authority operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 61 of 1963;
      (f)   "NASCO" means the Nasr Automotive Services Company, a
public company operating under the Borrower's Law No. 97 of 1983, or
any law successor thereto;
      (g)   "Community Activity" means a productive or social
development activity under Part C of the Project;
      (h)   "CA" means a community agency, namely, a private, non-
profit organization operating under the Borrower's Law No. 32 of
1964 (or any other agency of the Borrower) whose proposal for the
carrying out of Community Activities under Part C of the Project has
been approved by SFD;
      (i)   "SA" means a sponsoring agency, namely, a banking
institution or other agency of the Borrower's whose proposal for the
provision of credit under Part D of the Project has been approved by
SFD;
Page  3
      (j)   "CAPMAS" means the Central Authority for Public
Mobilization and Statistics of the Borrower;
      (k)   "LE" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "Cofinanciers" means the entities listed in Preamble (B)
to this Agreement;
      (n)   "Co-financing Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Cofinanciers;
      (o)   "Cofinancing Amount" means the loans and grants provided
under the Cofinancing Agreements; and
      (p)   "Framework Agreement" means any agreement to be entered
into by SFD, pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, with an EA, a CA, a SA, CTA or ATA for the purposes of
carrying out activities included in the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred five million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 105,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in the Central Bank of Egypt on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Interest earned on amounts in
deposit in the Special Account shall be used by SFD for purposes of
its activities, in the manner determined by its Board.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Page  4
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2001 and ending March 1, 2026. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2011, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1.25%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2.50%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Borrower represents that it has designated
its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of handling, on behalf of
the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Credit.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through SFD
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, engineering and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, currently estimated at
LE 200,000,000, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
Page  5
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project (other than for credit provided under Parts C and D
thereof) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SFD to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause SFD:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than 6
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause SFD to:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  6
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SFD to prepare, for
submission to the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and to the
Association, plans and arrangements as to the methodology for
recovering the costs of its activities from beneficiaries and the
extent to which such recovery would be justified.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of SFD or for the
suspension of its operations; and
      (b)    (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of Co-financing Agreements providing for a total
Cofinancing Amount of not less than $100,000,000 equivalent (other
than conditions related to the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  7
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister of State for
International Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for
International Finance of said Ministry is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of International Cooperation
            (International Finance Sector)
            8 Adly Street
            Cairo, Egypt
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   MINISTRY OF INTERNATIONAL       927-23348
                     COOPERATION CAIRO
            For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC),
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                         By /s/ Erfan Shafey
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Works under             30,000,000        25% of amounts
      Part A of the                             disbursed by SFD
      Project                                   under the relevant
                                                Framework Agree-
                                                ments
(2)   Spare parts and         10,500,000        25% of amounts
      equipment under                           disbursed by SFD
      Part B of the                             under the relevant
      Project                                   Framework
                                                Agreements
(3)   Community acti-          7,500,000        25% of amounts
      vities under                              disbursed by SFD
      Part C of the                             under the relevant
      Project                                   Framework
                                                Agreements
(4)   Credit under            33,000,000        25% of amounts
      Part D of the                             disbursed by SFD
      Project                                   under the relevant
                                                Framework
                                                Agreements
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)   Training, equip-        18,000,000        25%
      ment, tools and
      financial assist-
      ance under Part E
      of the Project
(6)   Technical                3,000,000        25%
      assistance
(7)   Unallocated              3,000,000
                             ___________
           TOTAL             105,000,000
                             ===========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) in respect
of payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (4) until
SFD has concluded, in accordance with the provisions of Part 4 (b)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, Framework Agreements with at least
two SAs for the provision of credit under Part D of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to launch a program of
actions that would facilitate the social transition associated with
Egypt's economic adjustment program, through provisions of municipal
and community services and of credit for the establishment of small
private businesses, the improvement of mass transport services and
the carrying out of labor mobility measures; and (b) to establish
mechanisms to protect the most affected population groups.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:     Municipal Services (Public Works)
      Implementation of labor intensive public works Sub-projects,
including Sub-projects for improvement of rural roads and of water
supply and sewerage services, and for maintenance works such as
landscaping, dredging and cleaning of irrigation canals, solid waste
management and refurbishing of buildings.
Part B:     Public Transport
(1)   Provisions of spare parts to CTA and for ATA for the
rehabilitation and overhaul of public transport buses.
(2)   The manufacture/assembly by NASCO of about 250 new buses.
Part C:     Community Development
(1)   Productive Activities: financing of working capital, training
and equipment required to enable target beneficiaries to start
income generating activities in areas such as handicrafts, consumer
delivery services, food processing and small horticultural
production.
(2)   Social Development: financing of social development activities
primarily in the health and education sectors for specific target
populations, including, among others: (a) provision of equipment and
supplies for primary and child health care centers and for basic
education program, and (b) carrying out of literacy, health and
environmental awareness and protection programs.
Part D:    Enterprise Development
      Provision, through Sponsoring Agencies (SAs) of integrated
packages of credit, technical assistance and training to assist in
the creation of new businesses and the expansion of existing ones so
as to generate employment and income earning opportunities.
Part E:     Labor Mobility
      The establishment within SFD of a technical unit for labor
mobility to be responsible for (a) assessing the needs for workers'
retraining, and (b) implementing programs for labor mobility which
shall include the provision of financial assistance, re-training,
counseling, placement and other support measures.
Part F:     Institutional Development
(1)   The undertaking, in order to improve the targeting and
monitoring system of SFD, through CAPMAS, of surveys of the living
conditions of the population, the integration of the results of such
survey into databases to be developed within a computerized
management information system located within CAPMAS, and the
establishment, on the basis thereof, of a mechanism for monitoring
changes in social indicators.
(2)   The carrying out of studies of major social issues, including
the targeting of subsidies and protection of essential public
services for low-income groups.
(3)   Training for the staff of SFD and the SAs.
(4)   Financing of the operation of SFD throughout the period of
Project implementation, including the provision of equipment and
supplies.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  10
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent to
$250,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, and items of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
      (b)   SFD shall establish, on the basis of criteria
satisfactory to the Association, a system for determining the
eligibility of contractors to bid for works pursuant to the
procedures referred to in paragraph (a) above.
2.    Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
Page  11
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist SFD in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause SFD to employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
      The Borrower shall cause SFD to abide by the following
arrangements in the carrying out of the Project:
1.    Part A of the Project (Municipal Services)
      Public works under Part A of the Project shall be carried out
as follows:
      (a)   SFD shall prepare and furnish to the Association, by
October 31, 1991, on the basis of eligibility criteria satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association, an overall plan for the
carrying out of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project in the
various geographical regions of the Borrower.
      (b)   SFD shall assign the responsibility for implementation
of each Sub-project (or Sub-projects) included in such plan, to an
executing agency (EA) under a Framework Agreement to be entered into
between SFD and the EA under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including: (i) the obligation of the EA (A) to
prepare a financing plan for the Sub-project, (B) to select
contractors for the carrying out of works under the Sub-project in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to SFD, (C) to prepare the
invoices and other documents necessary to effect payments on account
of works under the Sub-projects in accordance with the terms of the
relevant Framework Agreement, (D) to maintain all accounts, records
and documents relating to the Sub-project and to furnish copies of
the same to SFD, and (E) to have such accounts for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles and to
furnish a certified copy of the report of such audit to SFD, and
(ii) the right of SFD to require, when it deems necessary, the
appointment of engineering consultants to design and to supervise
the execution of the sub-project.
2.    Part B of the Project (Public Transport)
      The following arrangements shall be followed in the carrying
out of Part B of the Project:
     (a)    In order to enable CTA and ATA to procure the spare
parts referred to in Part B (1) of the Project, SFD shall make
available to CTA an amount equivalent to about $43,000,000 and to
ATA an amount equivalent to about $10,000,000, under a Framework
Agreement to be concluded between SFD and CTA and between SFD and
ATA under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
      (b)   SFD shall enter into a Framework Agreement with NASCO
whereby (i) SFD shall provide a loan to NASCO in the amount of
about LE 35,000,000, to be used exclusively by NASCO for financing
the manufacture of about 250 buses, and (ii) NASCO shall repay the
principal amount of such loan over a period of 7 years, including a
grace period of 2 years, with interest at the annual rate prevailing
for commercial loans in Egypt.
Page  12
3.    Part C of the Project (Community Development)
      (a)   SFD shall receive and evaluate, in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association, proposals of Community
Agencies (CAs) for the carrying out of Community Activities under
Part C of the Project.
      (b)   Upon approval by SFD of a proposal for Community
Activities, SFD shall conclude with the proposing CA, a Framework
Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including the obligation of the CA (i) to carry out the community
activities with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
the specifications provided in the Framework Agreement; (ii) to
prepare the invoices and other documents necessary to effect
payments on account of the Community Activities from the resources
allocated by SFD therefor; (iii) to maintain all accounts, records
and documents relating to the Community Activities and to furnish
copies of the same to SFD; and (iv) to have such accounts for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles and to furnish a copy of the report of such audit to SFD.
      (c)   The Framework Agreement to be concluded between SFD and
any CA shall provide for: (i) the terms of credit to be extended by
the CA for financing productive activities under Part C (1) of the
Project; and (ii) the extent to which amounts extended by SFD to the
CA for purposes of financing Community Activities shall be repayable
by the CA to SFD and the terms of such repayment.
4.    Part D of the Project (Enterprise Development)
      (a)   SFD shall receive and solicit proposals from sponsoring
Agencies (SAs) for the provision of credit under Part D of the
Project. Such proposals shall be evaluated and approved on the basis
of criteria, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include
(i) the organization and administration capacity of the SA to carry
out small enterprise lending; (ii) the willingness of the SA to lend
at market rates and with simplified collateral requirements and to
ensure equal access to credit for women; and (iii) the adequacy of
the credit plan presented by the SA with respect to the targeting of
beneficiaries of credit and the technical support to be provided to
them, the implementation arrangements for such credit plan and the
maintenance of records and accounts.
      (b)   After approval by SFD of a proposal evaluated pursuant
to the provision of paragraph (a) above, SFD shall conclude a
Framework Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, with the concerned SA which shall include: (i) SFD's
agreement to establish for the SA a revolving account in the amount
and for the duration justified by the credit proposal approved by
SFD, which the SA shall draw on to make disbursements under credits
provided by it and into which it shall deposit all amounts received
by it in debt service payments on account of such credits; (ii)
authorization for the SA, in order to enable it to defray the
administration cost and to cover the credit risk associated with its
activities hereunder, to withdraw a fee amount, equivalent, on an
annual basis, to 8% of the outstanding amount of credit extended by
the SA (or such other percentage of such outstanding amount as SFD
shall agree is appropriate to provide adequate incentives for the SA
to continue with the extension of credit under Part D of the
Project); and (iii) the SA's obligations (A) to abide, in extending
credit to beneficiaries, by the credit plan approved by SFD pursuant
to paragraph (a) above, and not to introduce any substantial
modifications to said plan with respect to credits' objectives,
beneficiaries or terms without the prior approval of SFD, (B) to
require the beneficiaries of such credits to procure all goods,
works and services to be financed thereunder under appropriate
procedures, ensuring economy and efficiency, (C) to furnish to SFD
quarterly reports on progress in carrying out said credit plan, and
(D) except as SFD may otherwise agree, not to extend credit, the
Page  13
debt services payment of which shall extend beyond the date for
termination of such revolving account, and to transfer to SFD,
promptly upon such termination, all amounts remaining therein.
      (c)   Individual credits provided by SAs under Part D of the
Project shall not exceed LE 200,000 and shall be repayable over a
period not exceeding four years (including a grace period of not
more than one year) with interest at the prevailing annual rate
charged by commercial banks in Egypt in their lending for activities
similar to those financed under such credit.
5.    Part E of the Project (Labor Mobility)
      SFD shall: (a) establish, by June 30, 1992, in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, the technical
unit for labor mobility referred to in Part E of the Project; (b)
prepare through said unit and furnish to the Association, for its
comments, by December 31, 1992, a model agreement for the carrying
out of redeployment activities under Part E of the Project; and (c)
review with the Association the first three redeployment program to
be carried out under Part E of the Project.
6.    Part F of the Project (Institutional Development)
      (a)   SFD shall: (i) coordinate with CAPMAS in the carrying
out of the surveys referred to in Part F(1) of the Project; and (ii)
establish procedures to ensure its timely access to CAPMAS' updated
data and analysis of changes in social indicators, and utilize such
data and analysis in refining the targeting of areas and groups of
population for its activities under the Project.
      (b)   SFD shall: (i) by October 31, 1991, prepare and furnish
to the Association, for its comments, an outline of the objectives
and scope of the studies to be undertaken under Part F(2) of the
Project; (ii) thereafter carry out such studies, taking into account
the Association's comments, and ensure their completion and the
furnishing to the Association of their findings and recommendations
in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Association;
and (iii) prepare, in consultation with the Association, a program
of actions for implementation of such recommendations, for
submission to the Borrower's relevant authorities.
7.    General Requirements
      (a)   Until the completion of the Project, SFD shall: (i)
prepare and furnish to the Association: (A) an annual work plan
describing the activities expected to be carried out during the year
concerned under the various components of the Project, and the
estimated cost thereof; (B) quarterly reports on progress in the
carrying out the Project. Such reports shall deal with all aspects
of Project implementation and shall include, in particular, an
analysis of the levels of disbursement of funds available for SFD
for purposes of the Project, the impact of activities undertaken
under the Project, and their success in reaching their target
population, and the adjustments to the allocation of funds or to
Project components required to further the objectives of the
Project; and (ii) review annually with the Association the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the adjustment to
be made to such activities in order to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
      (b)   SFD shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Association,
by October 31, 1991 a brief report describing the activities under
the Project where SFD would need the services of experts and the
Page  14
dates by which SFD intends to contract such services; and (ii) after
reviewing the Association's comments thereon, ensure that such
services shall be secured by the dates specified in such report.
      (c)   SFD shall prepare and start to implement, not later than
October 31, 1991, a promotional campaign aiming at (i) informing the
public of its objectives and activities; and (ii) identifying and
initiating contacts with all agencies, public or private and
operating at the local or national levels, which may participate in
the carrying out of activities included in the Project.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
(except Category (7)) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is                  
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
Page  15
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
