                                         Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                       ReportNo: 39598-YE




                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                            ON A

                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR9.9MILLION

                             (US$lS.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                            FORA

                  THIRD SOCIAL FUNDFORDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                         May 17,2007




HumanDevelopmentSector
Middle East andNorthAfrica Region

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                 (ExchangeRateEffective:December 1,2006)
                        CurrencyUnit = Yemeni Rial(YR)
                               U S $ l= YR196.75

                               FISCALYEAR
                          January 1   - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


AAA     AnalyticalandAdvisory Assistance
CAS     CountryAssistance Strategy
DfID    Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment
EU      EuropeanUnion
FMR     FinancialMonitoringReport
GDP     GrossDomestic Product
GOY     GovernmentofYemen
GPN     GeneralProcurementNotice
GTZ     GesellshaftFur Technische Zusammenarbat
ICB     InternationalCompetitiveBidding
IDA     InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MDG     MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
M&E     MonitoringandEvaluation
MENA    MiddleEast andNorthAfrica
MIS     ManagementInformationSystem
NCB    NationalCompetitiveBidding
NPM    NationalProcurementManual
PAD     Project AppraisalDocument
SBD     StandardBiddingDocument
SFD     Social Fund for Development
SPN     SpecificProcurementNotice
YR     Yemeni Ryal



                         Vice President:   DaniellaGressani
                       CountryDirector:    EmmanuelMbi
                         Sector Director   MichalRutkowski
                 Acting Sector Manager:    DavidSteel
                     Task Team Leader:     Anush Bezhanyan

                                                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                            YEMEN
                          THIRD SOCIAL FUNDFORDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                                        CONTENTS

        ProjectPaperData Sheet
        IINTRODUCTION
        I1 BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING INTHE AMOUNT OF
          ..                    ....................................................................................................................................            1


        US$15MILLION       ..........................................................................................................................................           1
        I11PROPOSEDCHANGES
           .                                  .......................................................................................................................           3
        IV CONSISTENCYWITH CAS OR CPS
           .                                                          ................................................................................................          5
        V ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUNOR FINANCING GAP                                                                          .......................................    6
        VI EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                                                                                                                                                     6
        VI1 BENEFITSAND RISKS
        VI11 FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING
          ....                                   ....................................................................................................................
                                              ......................................................................................................................            7
                                                                                                                                                                  ...............8
        ANNEX 1 CURRENTFINANCING STATUS                                                                                                                                         9
        ANNEX 2 ESTIMATED PROJECTCOST
                  ..                                                          .........................................................................................
                                                                        ............................................................................................          10




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


Date: May 17,2007                              Team Leader: Anush Bezhanyan
Country: Republic of Yemen                     Sector Directorhlanager: Michal
Project Name: Third Social Fundfor             Rutkowski/David Steel (Acting)
Development                                    Country Director: EmmnuelMbi
Project ID: P102181                            Environmental Category: B




FY                  2008           2009
Annual                9              6
Cumulative            9             15


Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bank policies?                                                           No
Have these beenapprovedby Bank management?                               N/A
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?            No




                   Source                         Local        Foreign        Total
Borrower                                        0.38         0.00          0.38
IBRD/IDA                                       14.10         0.90          15.00
Others
Total                                          14.48         0.90          15.38


I.Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional credit in an amount o f SDR 9.9 million (US$15 million equivalent) to the
Republic o f Yemen for the Third Social Fund for Development Project (P082498)
(Cr.38610). The proposed additional financing would help close the remaining financing
gap and would finance sub-project activities defined in the Project Appraisal Document
(report No. 26885 dated February 26, 2004) - community development, micro-enterprise
development, and capacity buildingand institutional support. The Government continues
to see additional financing from other donors to close the gap completely.

2.      Partnership arrangements:       Currently 12 multi- and bi-lateral donors are
contributing to the project. The table in Annex 1 o f this Project Paper shows current
financing status.

11.BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancinginthe amount of US$15
million
3.      The original credit for the Third Social Fund for Development Project in the
amount of SDR 41.7 million (US$60 million equivalent) was approved on February 26,
2004 and became effective on August 15, 2004.          The closing date of the Credit is
December 31, 2008. The project objectives were: to improve the range o f services and
economic opportunities available to the poorer segments o f the population through the
carrying out o f community development, micro-finance and capacity buildingprograms.
The project objectives, design and scope remainthe same.

4.      The project has been making satisfactory progress in achieving project
development objectives and agreed results. Reachingthe poorest populations inYemeni s
the primaryobjective o fthe SFD 111. The recent impact evaluation has shown that a high
proportion o f SFD I11resources are benefiting the poorest households in Yemen: 49.8
percent o f SFD funds go to the poorest decile, 63 percent to the poorest quintile and 73
percent to the poorest three deciles. Only three percent o f resources are received by
households in the top decile. These results are considerably better than the goals set at
project appraisal and those found in other Social Investment Funds. These findings also
are more positive than those yielded by previous analysis o f the SFD operation in 1999
and 2003. This pro-poor bias is especially significant given Yemen's very high level o f
poverty across the population and the relatively flat income distribution (Gini coefficient
o f 0.38). The benefit incidence analysis also shows that SFD is targeting poor women.
Half o f SFD's beneficiaries are female and about 12 percent o f SFD-affected households
are led by a woman (compared with 7.2 percent national average o f households headed
by women). The SFD has been making significant progress in achieving other
development and implementation progress indicators including inter alia: (i)430,640
children enrolled in SFD supported schools (PAD target: 300,000); (ii)399,755
beneficiaries having access to water (PAD target: 240,000); and (iii)  335,755 using new
feeder roads supported by SFD (PAD target 760,000); and (iv) current SFD operations
cost 4.5% o f investment cost (PAD target: less than 10%). Implementation progress (IP)
and development objective (DO) ratings for the project have been satisfactory or higher

since the project became effective.      The disbursement i s FMR-based, and unqualified
annual audit reports have been received ina timely manner. The project has not had any
fiduciary, environmental, social or other safeguard problems.               The project is in
compliance with the applicable loan covenants.

5.       The Republic of Yemen is among the poorest countries in the world with an
annual per capita income o f under US$600 and with 41 percent o f its population of about
21 million living inpoverty. Despite steady progress at the macro level, Yemen has some
o f the worst social indicators in the MENA region: a 28 percent literacy rate among
women, 18 percent malnutrition, girls' primary enrollment at 55 percent, and access to
safe water at 31 percent. Poverty is pervasive in rural areas, where much o f the
population resides. The dispersion o f the population and the difficult topography pose a
serious challenge to delivering social services: Yemen has around 35,000 official villages
(with approximately 100,000 human settlements), many with less than 100 households,
which makes the provision and maintenance o f social services very expensive. The
country's fiscal revenues depend heavily on the oil sector (for nearly 75 percent o f
income) and production forecasts indicate existing reserves will be depleted in 8-10
years. Yemen is an oil-dependent economy with oil revenues projected to decline and
with no good short to medium-term alternative income sources to deliver services.

6.       The Government has set ambitious Millennium Development Goals (MDG),
which coincide with Yemen's Strategic Vision 2025 to improve the country's level o f
human development and enable its eventual integration into the Gulf Cooperation
Council. The principal objectives o f the MDGtargets and 2025 strategic vision are to: (i)
improve demographic and health outcomes, including mainstreaming gender; (ii)
eliminating illiteracy; (iii)raising per capita income by diversifying the economic base;
and (iv) enhancing democratization, decentralization, participation, and rule o f law. A
National Development Plan (Le. Third Five-Year Plan, 2006-2010) and a Public
Investment Plan (2007-2020, totaling $16.9 billion across six major sectors) have been
developed as a financing framework to help realize these objectives, while generating a
stronger sense o f ownership among the national stakeholders of the development agenda.
However, delivery o f this ambitious program is severely constrained by Yemen's weak
institutional capacity. The capacity o f government and non governmental institutions to
ensure effective, efficient, and equitable delivery o f social services i s insufficient. At the
local level, the government's capacity to identify problems and needs and to respond by
formulating programs and projects i s underdeveloped. The Government recognizes the
capacity o f central ministries to manage and account for funds needs significant
improvement. Under the ten-year National Agenda for Reform, administrative reforms
are underway in procurement, financial management, decentralization and civil service.
But defining and equipping ministries to perform key functions will require time to
achieve full implementationand improve the quality o f governance.




                                              2

7.       Given the lack o f capacity to deliver basic services, the Government with the
support from the World Bank has created a Social FundFor Development which is tasked
with providing the improved access to basic social services for poorest parts o f Yemeni
population, while providing an example o f an effective, efficient and transparent
institutional mechanism for providing social services in Yemen. The SFD as an agency
was created in 1997 and through its first and second phases has supported long-term
development for the poor and encouraged innovative and participatory approaches to
delivering social services. Since 1997the SFD has scaled up its operations, financing $80
million inthe first phase, US$175 million inthe second phase and a planned $400 million
in the ongoing third phase. The third phase o f the SFD program in ongoing and is
supported by large number o f donors (please refer to Annex 1 o f this project paper).
Recognizing the above mentioned successes and achievements o f the SFD in building
human capital, poverty targeting and developing poor communities, the Government in
2006 has laid out a vision for the SFD to utilize its strong procurement, financial
management and monitoring and evaluation systems to manage substantially larger
amounts o f investments with the existing SFD structure and a doubling or tripling o f its
operations. The Third Five-Year Plan (2006-2010) calls for SFD to disburse US$697
million for some 6,000 projects.

8.      The World Bank plays a leadrole inYemen and the Government has requested its
continued leadership in organizing support for the third phase o f the Social Fund for
Development. In response to the request, the Bank has provided US$60 million o f IDA
credit for financing the SFD third phase. Based on Yemen's need for basic social services
and SFD's implementation capacity (presently at about US$7.0 milliodmonth
disbursement rate), and other donors' commitment at the time o f project preparation, the
project was prepared as a $400 million project. As of today, there i s a financing gap o f
about $60 million. Other donors are also inthe process o f mobilizing additional funding,
including KfW (additional EUR 5 million in 2007), EU (EUR7.2 million in 2007) and
regional funds (Kuwait Fundi s expected to provide significant contribution). Inaddition,
substantial funding is expected to be mobilized from the Consultative Group Meeting
held in November 2006 with a large participation from the Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC) countries. To date the IDA financing helped mobilizing other donor financing to
the SFD. Additional US$15 million are planned to support the ongoing scaled up third
phase. In addition to its financing the Bank also brings its global, regional, and country
experiences to the social funds and microfinance and contributes to the enhancing quality
o fthe SFD operations.


111.ProposedChanges

The project description remains the same as for the original project.

9.      The project will build on the success o f the ongoing third phase o f the SFD
operation and will continue to support the SFD's delivery o f social services using
participatory approaches. The focus will be on financing sustainable activities and
strengthening the capacity o f local communities, NGOs, and select government agencies.

The additional financing will be provided for the three main components which are
described in detail in the Project Appraisal Document (report No 26885 dated February
26,2004):

 10.    Component One: Community Development. The SFD will continue to support
subprojects in the areas o f education, water and environment, health and social
protection, cultural heritage, and rural/feeder roads. More emphasis will be placed on
community participation andbuildingsocial capital.

11.     Component Two: Micro-enterprise Development. The SFD will continue
supporting Micro-finance institutions (MFIs) providing them with technical assistance,
management information support, sub-loans for MFI operations.

12.     Component Three: Capacity Building and Institutional Support. The structure
o f the SFD itself will continue to be strengthened and supported by this component. In
addition, the SFD will continue to finance activities in two main areas, training and
organizational support. Four target groups are the focus: (i)   formally established NGOs
and cooperatives; (ii) informal community-based organizations (CBOs); (iii) private
                                                                                  the
sector (individual local consultants); and (iv) local authorities (elected local councils and
executive organs).

13.     Implementation Arrangements. The project will be implemented by the Social
Fund for Development. Although falling under the Prime Minister's office, the SFD
functions as an autonomous organization. It has a Board o f Directors with broad
representation, including the government, NGOs, and the private and financial sectors.
The Board reviews policy and approves importantdocuments like annual plans, budgets,
and amendments to the operations manual. A Managing Director (MD) heads the
executive body and has full authority to mange daily operations. The headquarters i s
located in Sana'a and seven regional offices exist countrywide.

14.     Financial Management Arrangements. Financial management arrangements
will be the same as for the original project as they are working satisfactorily. The current
FM arrangements are appropriate.          Accounting books and records are properly
maintained using an Oracle based accounting and reporting system, required FM reports
(audits/FMRs) are produced on time and are reviewed by an external auditor, and
management acts promptly on any internal control issues raised inthe management letter.
The disbursementis FMRbased andthe project is disbursing ahead o f schedule.

15.     Procurement Arrangements. The procurement capacity o f Yemeni institutions i s
weak. The Bank is supporting the development o f country procurement capacity through
the Institutional Development Project, AAA work and grants. As a transition strategy,
untila revised procurement law is enacted, the Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) recommended a set o f national standard bidding documents (SBDs) for goods,
works and services. The Bank through an IDF Grant for procurement capacity building,
and the Government o f the Netherlands, are supporting the development o f the National
Procurement Manual (NPM) and requisite SBDs, which also includes a separate volume
on procurement procedures for local authorities. The NPM and SBDs were approved by


                                             4

the Cabinet in April 2006 and will be piloted for one year. This will support capacity
building o f the GOY'S procurement function at all levels. In addition in CY2007 the
dissemination o f the N P M and SBDs to selected line Ministries has been initiated with
TA support for this effort to be financed by the multi-donor PFM grant administered by
UNDP. Since 1997 the SFD has developed a good procurement capacity at the central
level. The procurement unit has four sections handling different contracts: consultants,
civil works,     community contracting,        and goods.   Procurement procedures are
decentralized, and each of seven branch offices has a procurement officer on staff. The
SFD has implemented a substantive procurement capacity building program and is
gradually delegating procurement activities to the branch offices. A two-week training
conducted in September 2006 by a well experienced procurement capacity building
consultant and attended by all SFD procurement officers increased the level o f
confidence of the SFD management in its procurement staff and led to delegating more
procurement responsibilities to the branch offices. In addition to staff training, the SFD
has also designed a procurement module in its management information system that helps
with monitoring procurement actions and facilitates more efficient communication
between the SFD headquarters and branchoffices and reduce the overall work load. The
recent (December 2006) midterm review o f the SFD I11included a procurement capacity
assessment of the SFD, and it was recommended that the procurement for the proposed
additional financing be carried out in accordance with provisions stipulated in the Legal
Agreement o f the SDF I11 (Credit N o 38610), with no additional procurement
arrangements required.        The different procurement methods or consultant selection
methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame for contract
processing would be finalized inthe procurement plan agreed at negotiations. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) will be issued in the UnitedNations Development Business
and DG Market to advertise for major consulting assignments and to obtain expressions
o f interest, and for any ICB for goods which are anticipated not less than eight weeks
prior to the publication o f the first Specific Procurement Notice (SPN). The GPN will be
updated annually for all outstanding procurement. The GPN will also be published inthe
national press or official gazette for purposes o f obtaining expressions o f interest for
contracts underN C B and to obtain expression o f interest from national consultants.

IV. Consistencywith CASor CPS
16.      The additional financing for the SFD I11 is included in the Yemen Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The SFD I11and this additional financing are consistent with
the CAS objective and contribute to it by supporting the second pillar o f the CAS o f
improving human development through more efficient service delivery and improved
safety nets.




                                               5

V. Economic Analysisof Cost Overrunor FinancingGap

17.      Detailed economic analyses for the project have been carried out inpreparation of
the third phase and the project remains economically justified. Based on Yemen's need
for basic social services and SFD's implementation capacity (US$2 milliodmonth
disbursement rate at the time o f project preparation), and other donors' commitment at
the time o f project preparation, the project was prepared as a $400 million project. As o f
today, there i s a financing gap o f about $60 million. The proposed additional financing
will help close this financing gap.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

18.      This additional financing will help fill the financing gap in the third phase o f the
SFD. The expected outcomes from the SFD I11 remain the same. What follow is a
summary o f the assessment o f the SFD I11 outcomes which is based on the rigorous
impact evaluation carried out it 2006. The impact evaluation combined representative
household surveys with facility surveys and qualitative methodologies. It found the SFD
i s surpassing its goals for poverty targeting outcomes: 69 percent o f SFD resources are
benefiting the poorest three deciles compared to a project appraisal goal o f 40 percent.
This pro-poor bias is especially significant given Yemen's very flat income distribution
and its high level o f poverty across the population. Half o f all SFD beneficiaries are
female. Student enrolment rates are increasing considerably in rural schools affected by
SFD, up 91 percent for boys and 122 percent for girls. The impact evaluation found
improvements in equipping, staffing, and availability o f most services in SFD financed
facilities since 2003. The SFD is found to have positive results on children's vaccination
rates and the beneficiary assessment suggests the SFD midwives program is valued by
men and women for making female health professionals available in homes for
pregnancy and childbirth in remote villages. The surveys also indicate a high-level o f
ownership and support for SFD-financed subprojects with the majority o f interviewees
indicating that they would have chosen the same project as a priority for their
community. Householdscontribute money, labor and materials for infrastructure projects
and elect their neighbours to serve on procurement, project and maintenance committees.
The majority o f projects have project maintenance committees. The direct involvement o f
women in project selection and maintenance i s low, though the beneficiary assessment
found that SFD processes encourage opportunities to discuss female participation. It i s
expected that this additional financing will contribute towards the achievement o f the
target outcomes set forth in the results framework developed for project (please see
Annex 3 o f the Project Appraisal Document         -Report No. 26885 dated February 26,
2004).




                                              6

VII. Benefitsand Risks

 19.     As discussed above (paragraph 4) the impact evaluation conducted for the Project
clearly demonstrates that the poorest part o f Yemen's population has benefited
 significantly from these sub-projects. The detailed cost benefit analyses carried out at
project appraisal remainvalid and are described in Project Appraisal Document - Report
No. 26885 dated February 26, 2004). Since 2004 the SFD committed over US$233
million for more than 2,300 subprojects. The SFD constructed or rehabilitated over 7,200
class rooms, benefiting an estimated 400,000 children, 30 percent o f whom are girls, far
exceeding the midterm target o f 4,100 classrooms. The SFD improved or rehabilitated
491 km o f gravel roads and 218 km o f paved roads improvingvillage access roads which
significantly reduce prices for trucked water, fuel and other commodities. For instance,
the cost o f transport dropped 20-40 percent on average for 16 completed projects (visited
by SFD Jan.-Sep. 2006) andthe number o ftrips increased 155 percent.

20.      The risk rating for this additional financing is Moderate. As almost ten years o f
the SFD operations demonstrate, the SFD due to its autonomous status, transparent
procedures and accountability has not been affected by any political changes. In fact it
has addressed previously identified risks and has implemented mitigating measures,
including the rigorous poverty targeting methodology and sophisticated impact
evaluation methods. The SFD has systematically addressed the challenges and risks it
faced and is constantly improving its operations to address the new risks. These include
but are not limitedto:

21.     Harmonization with Sector Policies - the SFD is valued by government policy
makers and donors for its ability to pilot test innovative approaches, document and
transmit good practice to government entities, and attract overseas development
assistance. But like any coordination arrangement and multi-sectoral programs, there are
tensions in the relationships with the relevant sector agencies. According to the recent
Institutional Evaluation (February 2006), the line ministries in Yemen are constrained by
inadequate planning, implementation and delivery methodologies and capabilities; lack o f
timely access to information to facilitate decision-making; and an absence o f timely and
adequate budgets. At the same time, SFD faces more frequent and intense evaluation (by
donors as well as GOY),as well as earmarks, sector/subsector priorities and timeframes
imposed by donors, all o f which constrain SFD's ability to coordinate with ministry plans
and priorities. This notwithstanding since the beginning o f phase 111, there has been
considerable improvement inharmonization o f SFD policies and investment plans inthe
education, health and social protection sectors, though as noted earlier, greater
coordination is needed in the water sector and decisions need to be made about SFD's
continuing roles in support o f decentralization (Ministry o f Local Administration) and
NGOs (Ministry o f Social Affairs and Labour). The SFD is taking a more proactive role
inadvancingthe harmonization agenda inother sectors (e.g. water and health sector) and
collaborates with all line ministries to make the SFD contribution to the Yemen's Third
Five Year Development PldSecond Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper readily
identifiable.



                                               7

22.     Operations and Maintenance       - in order to preserve the development impacts
from SFD interventions, e.g. increased school enrollments and vaccination rates, a
concerted effort i s needed to ensure that these improvements are sustained over time.
Already in phase 11, the SFD revisited its design standards for schools, feeder roads and
water supply to minimize the maintenance burden. Whenever feasible the SFD signs
agreements with local councils to guarantee they will take on complete or partial
responsibility for infrastructure operations and maintenance, which is standard practice
for water and road subprojects. For many communities the SFD provides guidance in
establishing a community-based maintenance committee and training opportunities for
community volunteers who are elected to the committees. While these committees can
oversee routine maintenance, when it comes to staffing and major repairs, realistically
they can act only inthe capacity o f advocates on behalf o f the community to prompt and
prod for central government agencies to fulfill their responsibilities. The problems with
staffing and service delivery in medical centers and rural schools cannot be overcome
without the cooperation and financing from ministry partners. Although local authorities
have been delegated the responsibility to raise revenues to support schools their ability
and capacity to exercise this authority is very limited. The SFD has invested in capacity
building of local governments and community groups and will continue to do so. It will
continue working withthe line ministries to solve the problems with medium to long term
staffing and equipping in all o f the subprojects. The SFD will mitigate this risk by
developing the annual O&M plans with the relevant sectors and responsible agencies.


VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor theAdditionalFinancing

23.    The additional financing will be provided as an IDA credit on standard IDA terms
for 40 years and a grace period o f 10 years. The services charge i s 0.75% and the
commitment fee i s 0.50%.




                                            8

                     RepublicofYemen
Third Social Fundfor Development(SFD111)AdditionalFinancing

               Annex 1. CurrentFinancingStatus




                                   Funding
                                  Currency         Amount
     ContributingDonors            (Million)    (US$ million)
Arab Fund(AF) 3                          US$50             50




                                    (Source: Yemen Social Fund)




                             9

                                   Republic of Yemen

           Third Social Fundfor Development (SFD 111)Additional Financing

                             Annex 2. Estimated Project Cost

                                (inUS$millionequivalent)

 Component                                Local     Foreign     Total

 1. Community Development                 11.12     0.00        11.12

 2. Micro Enterprise Development          0.29      0.00        0.29

 3. Institutional Support, Capacity       2.69      0.9         3.59
 Building and Support to
 Decentralization
ITotal                                  I         I
                                        I         I            I
                                          14.1      0.9        I15



               DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (inUS$ millionequivalent)

              IDA FY               2008                2009

              Annual               9                   6

              Cumulative           9                    15




                                          10

ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                         Original Credit  Additional        Financing
                            Amount         Financing        Percentage
                            (SDR)          Amount
                                            (SDR)
(1) Sub-grants under          30,700,000      7,300,000 100% of amounts
    partsA, B.1, C.l                                    disbursedby SFD
    and C.3 of the
    Project

(2) Sub-loans under Part         560,000        190,000 100%o f amounts
    B.2 ofthe Project                                   disbursedby SFD

(3) Goodsunder Part C         3,200,000         580,000 100% o f foreign
    of the Project                                      expenditures,
                                                        100% of local
                                                        expenditures ex-
                                                        factory cost); and
                                                        85% o f local
                                                        expenditures for
                                                        other items
                                                        procured locally

(4) Consultants'              2,400,000         480,000 87%
    services under Part
    C ofthe Project

(5) Training Under Part       2,400,000         480,000 100%
    C ofthe Project

(6) Incremental               2,440,000         580,000 85%
    Operating Costs

(7) Unallocated                        0        290,000

    TOTAL                    41,700,000       9,900,000




                                    11


