                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                           Report No: 44043-YE




                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                             ON AN


                  EMERGENCY ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

            UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                            FOR THE

                THIRD SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                         June 18, 2008



Human Development Sector Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 3, 2008)


                         Currency Unit =     Yemeni Rial (YR)
                              US$1.00 =      YR 199.85

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     ­    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DFID   Department for International Development (UK)
DPPR   Development Plan for Poverty Reduction
FAO    Food and Agricultural Organization
FM     Financial Management
GFCRP  Global Food Crisis Response Program
IDA    International Development Association
IFAD   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFRs   Interim Un-audited Financial Reports
KfW    Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (Reconstruction Credit Institute)
MD     Managing Director
MDG    Millennium Development Goals
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
PDO    Project Development Objective
PIP    Public Investment Program
SFD    Social Fund for Development
SWF    Social Welfare Fund
UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
WFP    World Food Programme




                        Vice President:      Daniela Gressani
                     Country Director:       Emmanuel Mbi
                       Sector Director:      Steen Jorgensen
                      Sector Manager:        Roberta Gatti
                   Task Team Leader:         Anush Bezhanyan
                Co-Task Team Leader:         Mira Hong

                                  PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET


Date: June 18, 2008                          Team Leader: Anush Bezhanyan
Country: Republic of Yemen                   Co-Team Leader: Mira Hong
Project Name: Emergency Additional           Sector Director/Manager: Steen Jorgensen
Financing to the Third Social Fund for       Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi
Development Project                          Environmental Category: B
Project ID: 112345
Recipient: Republic of Yemen
Responsible agency: Social Fund for Development

Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                                                                         2009         2010
Annual                                                                     10.00          0.00
Cumulative                                                                 10.00        10.00
Current closing date: December 31, 2008
Revised closing date [if applicable]: December 31, 2009
Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank
policies?                                                                           Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        Yes  No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         Yes X No
Revised project development objectives/outcomes [If applicable]
The PDO will remain the same, namely: to improve the range of services and economic
opportunities available to the poorer segments of the population through the carrying out of
community development, micro-finance and capacity building programs.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
If so, click here to indicate which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR]
                                     For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [X] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
         Total Bank financing (US$m.): 10.0
         Proposed terms: IDA acting as Trustee for the Global Food Price Crisis Response Trust
         Fund
                                      Financing Plan (US$m.)
                  Source                             Local              Foreign        Total
Additional Financing GFPCR Trust Fund                 9.2                   0.8        10.0

I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide emergency
Additional Financing in an amount of US$10.0 million to the Yemen Third Social Fund for
Development Project (SFD III) (P082498) (Cr.38610) to help Yemen respond to the global food
crisis which is having a significant impact on the Yemeni population.

2.      The Bank proposes to provide support through an additional financing grant for the SFD
III Project. The funding will be from the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund which is being
administered by the Bank. The support would consist of two components: (i) cash payments to
the needy through community-based labor-intensive works, using the Social Fund for
Development (SFD) as a funding mechanism; and (ii) implementation support and capacity
building for the Social Welfare Fund (SWF) to expand and improve the effectiveness of the
national cash transfer safety net.

3.      This operation is being undertaken under the Global Food Crisis Response Program
(GFCRP) which has been established by the Bank to: (i) reduce the negative impact of high and
volatile food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely manner; (ii) support governments in the
design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of high and more volatile food
prices on poverty; and (iii) support broad-based growth in productivity and market participation
in agriculture to ensure an adequate supply response as part of a sustained improvement in food
supply.   The Framework for the GFCRP was presented to the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors on May 29, 2008 in the amount of US$1.2 billion.

II. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of US$10 million.

4.      Country Background. The Republic of Yemen, with a population of about 22 million
people, and a GDP per capita of about US$650, is among the poorest countries in the world. Forty
percent of the rural population and 20 percent of the urban population live below the poverty line.
Despite steady progress at the macro level, Yemen has some of the worst social indicators in the
Middle East and North Africa region: a 28 percent literacy rate among women, 18 percent
malnutrition, girls primary enrollment at 55 percent, and access to safe water at 31 percent.
Poverty is pervasive in rural areas, where much of the population resides. The dispersion of the
population and the difficult topography pose a serious challenge to delivering social services:
Yemen has around 35,000 official villages (with approximately 100,000 human settlements),
many with less than 100 households, which makes the provision and maintenance of social
services very expensive. The country's fiscal revenues depend heavily on the oil sector (for
nearly 75 percent of income) and production forecasts indicate that existing reserves will be
depleted in 8-10 years. Yemen is an oil-dependent economy with oil revenues projected to
decline and with no good short to medium-term alternative income sources to deliver social
services.

5.      Food Crisis and Rationale for Urgent Need of Funds. Yemen is suffering from multiple
challenges, which are being compounded by the global food crisis. Recent drought conditions,
combined with energy, fertilizer and food price increases, have already imposed great hardship
and rising expenses on the Yemeni population, particularly in rural areas. The sharply rising
prices of imported food and fertilizers, in particular, grain, have exacerbated the difficulties for
the poor. The country now faces a significant food shortage and high food prices.

6.      Domestic cereal production covers only 18% of the country's cereal consumption. With
on average 2.5 million tons of cereals imported every year, wheat prices increased from US$196
per ton in June 2007 to the current US$440 per ton. A large share (73%) of the population lives in
rural areas and most of them (90%) are farmers ­ and yet net buyers of cereals. Because Yemen

                                                 2

is a country highly dependent on wheat as a staple, this results in an increased vulnerability to
unstable food prices.

7.      The recent rise in international food grain prices in the context of meager per-capita
growth in Yemen has the potential to reverse the reduction in poverty achieved in the last ten
years. The doubling of the wheat prices in the last year, compounded with the increase in prices
of rice and maize, if not mitigated with income transfers, has the potential to increase the share of
the population living in poverty over the 1998 level. Estimated per-capita real consumption
growth indicates a decline of 1 percent per year in the last two years. This would take place in a
context of already severe child malnutrition (32 percent of poor children are severely stunted and
14 percent are severely underweight).

8.      The use of qat (Catha edulis) has had a significant impact on the Yemeni economy. It
accounts for around 6 percent of GDP, 10 percent of consumption, one-third of agricultural GDP,
and provides employment for one in every seven working Yemeni. As the predominant cash
crop, the income it generates plays a vital role in rural economies. However, it has also been
shown to use a significant amount of water resources (already very scarce) and has over time
crowded out production of essential food and export crops. Until the 1960s, qat chewing was an
occasional pastime, with the well-off being more able to afford it. Now it is chewed frequently by
a wider segment of Yemen's population. Qat consumption is believed to have grave health
consequences. Its use is linked to widespread child malnutrition and household food insecurity,
and adverse health effects such as high blood pressure, under-weight children (particularly in case
where expectant mothers chew qat), cancer and dental diseases.

9.      Rationale for Additional Financing. Yemen needs the Bank's support to cope with the
crisis because of the limited potential for supply response, the impact of food prices on poverty,
and the increasing risk of food riots. Yemen's limited endowment of water and cultivable land
diminishes agricultural supply response to higher food grain prices. In this context, the
Government has requested Bank support in a letter dated May 18, 2008. In response to the
Government's request, Additional Financing will support a workfare program implemented by
SFD that will channel cash into the hands of the poor to help them cope with the food price
emergency. In parallel, a small component of the Additional Financing will support the
improvement of a sustainable cash-based safety net that would further mitigate risks, including
the adverse impacts of high and more volatile food prices on poverty.

10.     Social Fund for Development (SFD). Given the limited capacity to deliver basic social
services to the population, the Government with the support from the World Bank, created a SFD
which is tasked with improving access to basic social services for the poorest Yemenis, while
providing an example of an effective, efficient and transparent institutional mechanism for
delivery of social services in Yemen. The SFD as an agency was created in 1997 and through its
first and second phases has supported long-term development for the poor and encouraged
innovative and participatory approaches to delivering social services. Since 1997, the SFD has
scaled up its operations, financing US$80 million in the first phase, US$175 million in the second
phase, and a planned US$400 million in the ongoing third phase. The third phase is supported by
a large number of donors including the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development,
Department for International Development (DFID), European Commission, Islamic Development
Bank, Government of Italy, IFAD, KfW, Government of the Netherlands, OPEC Fund, Saudi
Fund for Development, US Food Aid, and UNESCO (please refer to Annex 1 of this project
paper). Recognizing the above mentioned successes and achievements of the SFD in building
human capital, poverty targeting and developing poor communities, the Government in 2006 laid
out a vision for the SFD to use its strong procurement, financial management and monitoring and
evaluation systems to manage substantially larger amounts of investments within the existing

                                                 3

SFD structure, thus leading to a doubling or tripling of its operations. The Third Five-Year Plan
(2006-2010) calls for SFD to disburse US$697 million for some 6,000 projects.

11.     Social Welfare Fund (SWF). The Social Welfare Fund is the largest public cash-transfer
based social safety net in Yemen. It was established in 1996 by the Ministry of Social Affairs
and Labor and has gradually expanded to provide cash transfers to some 3 million poor and
vulnerable Yemenis.      In response to the emerging food crisis, with high prices for basic
foodstuffs coupled with rising prices for energy commodities, the Government has doubled the
maximum level of benefits under the SWF to YR 4,000 (USD $20) per case per month and has
decreed that the number of beneficiaries will be doubled to at least 6 million as soon as possible.
This expansion would permit coverage of nearly all those below the poverty line. However, the
program has suffered from a combination of low benefits and poor targeting, resulting in
chronically low coverage of the poor and little impact on overall poverty. The 2007 Poverty
Assessment concluded that SWF covered only 13 percent of the poor population and nearly two-
thirds of beneficiaries were not poor according to the national poverty line. As a result, the
Government has authorized a program of fundamental reforms to SWF, including improving the
targeting of the poor, strengthening the service delivery capacity, and implementing a new legal
and policy framework. Limited technical assistance has been provided by the EC for several
years, and recently the World Bank has begun to provide complementary guidance on program
targeting.

12.     The implementation of reforms and the expansion of the program are entering a critical
period requiring immediate technical assistance, capacity building and training support. SWF
plans to launch a national survey effort to identify the poorest and most vulnerable in society in
order to improve targeting and expand the program. Both the targeting system and the survey
must be implemented quickly but rigorously in accordance with good international practices. It is
important that these activities are completed to acceptable standards to give SWF the potential to
address rising poverty and to increase the credibility of the Government in meeting the challenges
of the food crisis.

13.     Original Third Social Fund for Development Project. The original credit for the SFD III
Project in the amount of SDR41.7 million (US$60 million equivalent) was approved on February
26, 2004 and became effective on August 15, 2004. The Closing Date of the SFD III is
December 31, 2008, and the Government has requested to extend the Closing Date to December
31, 2009. The project objective is to improve the range of services and economic opportunities
available to the poorer segments of the population through the carrying out of community
development, micro-finance and capacity building programs.

14.     The project has been making satisfactory progress in achieving its development
objectives and agreed results.      Reaching the poorest populations in Yemen is the primary
objective of the SFD III. The recent impact evaluation has shown that a high proportion of SFD
III resources are benefiting the poorest households in Yemen: 49.8 percent of SFD funds go to the
poorest decile, 63 percent to the poorest quintile, and 73 percent to the poorest three deciles.
Only three percent of resources are directly benefitting households in the top decile. These
results are considerably better than the goals set at project appraisal and those achieved by other
Social Investment Funds. These findings also are more positive than those yielded by previous
analyses of the SFD operation in 1999 and 2003.            This pro-poor orientation is especially
significant given Yemen's very high level of poverty across the population and the relatively flat
income distribution (Gini coefficient of 0.38). The benefit incidence analysis also shows that
SFD is targeting poor women. Half of SFD's beneficiaries are female and about 12 percent of
SFD-affected households are led by a woman (compared with 7.2 percent national average of
households headed by women). The SFD has been making significant progress in achieving other
development and implementation progress indicators, including inter alia: (i) 430,000 children

                                                 4

enrolled in SFD supported schools (PAD target: 300,000); (ii) 400,000 beneficiaries having
access to water (PAD target: 240,000); (iii) 340,000 using new feeder roads supported by SFD
(PAD target 760,000); and (iv) current SFD operations costing 5% of investment cost (PAD
target: less than 10%).

15.      An additional credit in an amount of SDR 9.9 million (US$15 million equivalent) was
approved on June 19, 2007. The objective of the first additional financing was to help close the
remaining financing gap to finance sub-project activities defined in the Project Appraisal
Document (report No. 26885 dated February 26, 2004) - community development, micro-
enterprise development, and capacity building and institutional support.

Proposed Bank Response and Strategy

16.      The Bank proposes to address the Government's request through further efforts to ensure
rapid implementation of the existing Yemen program activities, in terms of ongoing projects (in
the irrigation and agriculture sectors) and analytical work (related to the reform of subsidies and
the establishment of an adequate cash-based social safety net, as recommended by the new Social
Protection Strategy). The World Bank has been engaged in social protection in Yemen for
several years. It has supported the SFD since its creation, and is currently supporting the
expansion of the program along with other donors and contributing institutions. The SFD is
uniquely positioned to utilize grant resources and direct them to the neediest communities and to
support cash transfers through community-based labor-intensive works.            The SFD has also
provided the SWF with technical assistance and other support over the years, and can assist with
the management and capacity building currently required to enable the SWF to improve its
effectiveness as a safety net. Together, the technical expertise of the Bank combined with its
current involvement with safety net programs in Yemen, provides a strong rationale for expanded
support through the Global Food Crisis Response Fund.

III. Proposed Changes

17.      The SFD III Project provides an opportune mechanism for the Bank to respond in a quick
and flexible manner to the Government's request for financing in the face of the food price crisis.
The proposed US$10 million financing from the GFCRP Trust Fund facility would provide
immediate support to two sets of complementary activities to be undertaken as additional
financing to the current Third Social Fund for Development Project: (i) community-based labor-
intensive works through a well-tested mechanism, the highly-successful SFD, which would
finance activities in some of the poorest parts of the country; and (ii) support to the SWF to carry
out a national survey to identify the poorest Yemenis suffering from high food and fuel prices in
order to improve targeting and expand the program (it is expected that the program will nearly
double with the new beneficiaries identified), and to complete a revised targeting system that will
increase the share of cash transfers received by the poorest beneficiaries, improving the ability of
the program to reduce poverty immediately. The support to SWF will complement the technical
assistance being provided by the European Commission. The proposed project will build on the
success of the ongoing third phase of the SFD operation, and will continue to support the SFD's
delivery of social services using participatory approaches. Overall, SFD project progress is
satisfactory, and provides an excellent opportunity to successfully implement the additional
funds.

18.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) will remain the same, namely: to improve the
range of services and economic opportunities available to the poorer segments of the population
through the carrying out of community development, micro-finance and capacity building
programs. There have also not been any changes to the project design.

                                                  5

19.     The Additional Financing will scale up activities in SFD III and will be implemented
under two new components: 4 and 5 as described below:
    · Component 4.          Community-based Labor-intensive Works.              This component is
        expected to transfer cash for work to 8,000­10,000 households within the most seriously
        affected communities (Refer to "Social" paragraph in page 8 of this EPP for detailed
        description of the methodology for identification of the most seriously affected
        communities as beneficiaries). It is expected to transfer cash to help mitigate the impact
        of increased food prices through temporary work opportunities. This Program will also
        provide needed basic infrastructure to these communities in the fields of: irrigation, water
        harvesting, soil protection, agricultural terraces rehabilitation, maintenance and
        improvement of village access earth roads, street pavement, forestation and other types of
        labor intensive works based on the demands and priority needs of each community.
    · Component 5. Capacity Building of the Social Welfare Fund. This component will
        support: (i) a national survey to identify the poorest and most vulnerable in the society in
        order to improve targeting and expand the program; and (ii) complete a revised targeting
        system increasing the share of cash transfers received by the poorest beneficiaries to
        improve the ability of the program to reduce poverty immediately. The support to SWF
        will complement the technical assistance being provided by the European Commission.

                       Estimated Project Cost by Component (US$ million)

     Component                                        Local          Foreign      Total

     Component 4. Community-based Labor-              8.9            0.2          9.1
     intensive Works

     Component 5. Capacity Building of the            0.3            0.6          0.9
     Social Welfare Fund

     Total                                            9.2            0.8          10.0



20.     Rationale for the use of OP8.00 Guidelines on Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies. Application of the OP8.00 Guidelines provides the policy framework for rapid
response operations, and enables the Bank to respond rapidly to Yemen's current food crisis, in a
manner consistent with the recommendations approved by the Board under the GFCRP. OP8.00
stipulates that "the Bank may provide a rapid response to a borrower's request for urgent
assistance in respect of an event that has caused, or is likely to imminently cause, a major adverse
economic and/or social impact associated with natural or man-made crises or disasters." Unless it
is effectively mitigated, the ongoing food crisis is likely to imminently cause a major adverse
economic and social impact, in terms of a rapid increase of poverty (and has already started to do
so) ­ and possibly social disturbances in a fragile political environment.


IV. Consistency with CAS

21.     The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Yemen covers the period FY06
through FY09. The SFD III and this Additional Financing are consistent with the CAS objective
and contribute to it by supporting the second pillar of the CAS, namely: improving human
development through more efficient service delivery and improved safety nets.

                                                 6

V. Appraisal of Scaled-up Project Activities

Technical Appraisal

22.      The proposed intervention aims to provide assistance to the Government's response to the
crisis situation emerging from escalating food prices in Yemen. The Additional Financing will
provide short-term financing support to the most vulnerable populations which will temporarily
offset the impact of the food price crisis through community-based labor-intensive works. The
SFD is uniquely positioned to utilize grant resources and direct them to the neediest communities
and support cash transfers through well-tested labor-intensive works.

23.      In addition, support to the National Cash Transfer Safety Net (Social Welfare Fund) will
be provided. Over the years, SFD has provided the Social Welfare Fund (SWF) with technical
assistance and other support, and this Grant can assist with the management and capacity building
currently required to enable SWF to quickly and effectively expand the database of the
beneficiaries to improve its effectiveness as a safety net. In addition to its technical and financial
support of the SFD, the Bank has assisted in the development of a proxy means targeting
methodology for the SWF, using the extensive experience gained in the implementation of
targeting systems and cash transfer safety nets in the region and the world. Together, the
technical expertise of the Bank combined with its current involvement with safety net programs
in Yemen provides a strong rationale for expanded support through the Global Food Crisis
Response Fund.

24.      The SFD has a proven record of positive subproject sustainability.           No activity is
financed unless there are strong indications that it will continue to function after SFD financing is
phased out.     For communities to be able to operate and maintain (O&M) infrastructure
continuously, heavy investment in capacity building is being supported. The SFD observes
standards of operations and regularly visits subprojects for two years after completion of
implementation to ensure resolution of any O&M issues.

Economic Appraisal

25.      The proposed intervention represents a viable response to rising food prices in Yemen.
International evidence suggests that immediate responses to price shocks among the poorest
include scaling up public works and workfare projects to provide cash to households. In addition,
direct cash transfers through the Social Welfare Fund have the potential of reaching the poorest
and most vulnerable quickly. If well-targeted, cash can be distributed quickly, has low
transactions and delivery costs, and is most effective at meeting the needs of affected households
since cash can be used for any food or other consumption requirement. SFD is well-positioned in
terms of financial and institutional capacity to deliver cash quickly to individuals working on
community projects, given the extensive coverage of SFD projects in poorer and rural areas.
Development of the SWF is a critical component of Yemen's safety net for the poorest, and
utilizing some grant resources for capacity building and technical assistance for this program will
enable it to target the intended population and scale up efficiently to meet the expanded needs of
the poor population.

Institutional Appraisal

26.      The project will be implemented by the SFD. The SFD functions as an autonomous
organization under the Prime Minister's Office.          It has a Board of Directors with broad
representation, including the Government, NGOs, and the private and financial sectors. The
Board reviews policy and approves important documents like annual plans, budgets, and
amendments to the operations manual. A Managing Director (MD) heads the executive body and

                                                   7

has full authority to manage daily operations. The headquarters is located in Sana'a and eight
regional offices exist countrywide.

27.      Over the last 10 years, through three phases, its capacity has been built gradually to
identify, prepare, and supervise the implementation of development projects.             Now, it is
providing institutional capacity building support to other governmental institutions as well as
governmental organizations, NGOs, and CBOs. The SFD has a capacity to commit subprojects
and disburse approximately US$9 million per month.             Main functions have been gradually
decentralized, and the regional offices are now making a large number of operational decisions.
The SFD has a dynamic group of staff in Sana'a as well as in the regional offices. It has
developed its organizational structure and subproject cycles, and has a state-of-the-art MIS
system that was designed in-house and that captures all aspects of the subproject cycle from the
submission of the request to closure and evaluation of the subproject. SFD has also proved to be
one of the most efficient institutions in the country with its operational costs remaining within 5%
of total investment costs.

28.      A significant improvement has been made in coordination and alignment of SFD
programs with the sectoral ministries. The annual work planning process has been aligned with
the ministries' planning, and the SFD plans are now fully incorporated in and aligned with
Yemen's Development Plan for Poverty Reduction (DPPR) 2006-2010 and the Public Investment
Program (PIP).

Fiduciary

Procurement

29.      Over the years of implementing the ongoing projects, the procurement capacity of the
SFD has strengthened considerably. A number of SFD staff have received training on
procurement procedures in Sana'a and abroad. In addition, SFD has supported all branch offices
with the required procurement staff. On the whole, the SFD procurement functions are carried out
effectively and there are no capacity constraints that need to be flagged. All procurement
activities would be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's Procurement and
Consultant Guidelines of May 2004 as revised in October 2006. Procurement for the Additional
Financing will be expected to be carried out in accordance with the rules applied to the ongoing
SFD III. However, given the emergency nature of the operation, exceptional procedures may be
used during implementation, consistent with Bank guidelines under OP8.00. A simple
procurement plan for the upcoming three months will be updated to include the simplified
procurement methods that would be used for implementing the additional activities. The SFD will
prepare a list of fixed unit rates, which will be used for the community direct contracting based on
the market prices, for the Bank's approval. This list could be updated as needed with the Bank's
prior approval.

Financial Management

30.      The current financial management arrangement, which is working satisfactorily, is
appropriate for the Project and will be kept.         Accounting books and records are properly
maintained using an Oracle-based accounting and reporting system, required FM reports
(audits/FMRs, now referred to as IFRs) are produced on time and are reviewed by an external
auditor, and management acts promptly on any internal control issues raised in the management
letter. The disbursement method is based on advances supported by IFRs (formerly referred to as
FMR-based disbursement), and unqualified annual audit reports have been received in a timely
manner. 100% of the original credit (38610) of SDR 41.7 million has been disbursed, and
additional financing of SDR 9.9 million (38611) was approved on June 19, 2007. The audit

                                                  8

report for the year ending 2007 has been received with no major issues raised. The audit report
submission requirement remains the same, namely, that an audit report is due within six months
of the closing of the books, or by June 30 of each year.

Environmental and Social

31.      Environmental.     The Additional Financing will invest in small works subproject
activities, technical assistance, computer equipment and software, and training.           No new
safeguard policies are envisaged to be triggered; therefore, the project rating remains as
Environmental Category "B". The same measures being applied to the current project (SFD III)
are applicable to the project activities financed under the Additional Financing.

32.      Each subproject to be financed under the grant will be screened by SFD staff using a
safeguard questionnaire to determine if any environmental or social safeguard issues are
triggered. If so, the SFD will ensure that appropriate documents are completed for the subproject
and will include the recommendations contained therein in their supervision. The Project will
also ensure that SFD staff and clients are adequately trained on these procedures, including the
safeguard policies and theory behind them.         The Bank team will spot-check the safeguard
questionnaire as well as any resulting documents and actions required of the SFD during
supervision.

33.      The project includes activities that are designed to preserve and protect cultural heritage
sites. Consistent with the Operational Policy on Cultural Property, activities included are training
and capacity building of relevant partners for preserving cultural heritage sites.

34.      Under the current project (SFD III), an updated Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
has been prepared, appraised and is under implementation. The EMP includes:
a) rigorous use of safeguards questionnaires early during the preparation of sub-projects;
b) where necessary, preparation of an environmental impact assessment and other safeguard
related plans as part of the preparation of sub-projects; and
c) more comprehensive training for SFD staff and clients on safeguards issues.

35.      The SFD also carries out regular environmental audits.

36.      Social.   For social targeting of beneficiaries, SFD will have multiple levels of
identification, starting with a list of the poorest districts from the perspective of food poverty.
Data for this will be extracted from the 2005/2006 household budget survey. A set of criteria that
combines food poverty and population density will lead to the selection of sub-districts. Within
these sub-districts, field investigation will help to identify the villages and communities most
affected by drought and the current food crisis. This investigation will be carried out by SFD's
relevant branch offices. Self targeting will be ensured by setting the wages offered slightly below
prevailing market levels, thus attracting the most needy to participate and benefit from the
activities.  Some parts of the work could be given to women on a piece-meal basis to
accommodate their family obligations that might otherwise prevent them from participating in the
activities.

37.      In addition, social inclusion and cohesion of the communities will be emphasized
throughout project implementation.        Intensive communications will be carried out with the
targeted communities in order to clarify the objectives of the program. This will be a crucial step
to identify communities' priority needs, poorest households, and to collect social and technical
information to identify the size and nature of the works to be implemented. The works will be as
simple and labor intensive as possible. The size of works will also be proportional to the size of
community and the food shortage gap.

                                                  9

VI. Expected Outcomes:

38.      The PDO will remain the same, that is: to improve the range of services and economic
opportunities available to the poorer segments of the population through the carrying out of
community development, micro-finance and capacity building programs. It is expected that the
activities financed by the additional funds will contribute to achievement of the PDO.

39.      Under Component 4, the labor-intensive community-based civil works program is
expected to transfer cash (for work) to 8,000-10,000 Households living in the most affected
communities. It is expected to transfer cash and help cover the gap in wheat consumption for 6-12
months through temporary work opportunities. The Program will also provide needed basic
infrastructure to those communities in the area of irrigation, water harvesting, soil protection,
agricultural terraces rehabilitation, maintenance and improvement of village access earth roads,
street pavement, forestation and other types of labor-intensive works of priority of each
community.

40.      Component 5 will support a national survey to nearly double the current beneficiaries
among poor Yemenis suffering from high food and fuel prices. The national survey is a critical
first step in the success of the reformed Social Welfare Fund and immediate funding will help
ensure rigorous, timely completion. In addition, the program will support a revised targeting
system (shifting from categorical targeting to proxy means testing) that will increase the share of
cash transfers received by the poorest beneficiaries, improving the ability of the program to
reduce poverty immediately. Technical assistance in the design and implementation of a proxy
means targeting approach is required, as well as IT linkages between Sana'a and governorate
branch offices, hardware and database design and management.             The support to SWF will
complement the technical assistance being provided by the European Commission.

41.      Progress towards the development objectives supported by the Additional Financing will
be monitored with the following new indicators which were agreed during Negotiations.

         · Component 4:
             (a) percentage of funding going to the poorest deciles of the population.
             (b) number of households to be supported
             (c) number of jobs (man/days) to be supported

         · Component 5:
             (a) improved database with a list of potential target beneficiaries
             (b) Percentage of poor people targeted under the new cash assistance program
             increased through implementation of proxy means testing.

                                                    10


42.      The SFD relies on a strong M&E mechanism, which includes periodic comprehensive
surveys. Building on the upcoming 2009 survey and on successive rounds, the impact of the
workfare program supported by this project on poverty alleviation will be evaluated.1

VII. Benefits and Risks:

43.      The benefits of the project will be to: (i) provide short-term financing support to the most
vulnerable populations which will temporarily offset the impact of the food price crisis; and (ii)
assist the management and capacity building currently required to enable SWF to quickly and
effectively expand the database of the beneficiaries to improve its effectiveness as a safety net.
This will enable SWF to improve targeting and expand the programs; and increase the share of
cash transfers received by the poorest beneficiaries, thereby improving the ability of the program
to reduce poverty immediately.

44.      The risk rating for this Additional Financing is Moderate.

45.      Fiduciary risks. As almost ten years of the SFD operations demonstrate, due to its
autonomous status, transparent procedures and accountability, the SFD has not been affected by
political changes. In fact, it has addressed previously identified risks and has implemented
mitigating measures, including rigorous poverty targeting methodology and sophisticated impact
evaluation methods. The SFD has systematically addressed the challenges and risks it faced and
is constantly improving its operations to address the new risks.

46.      A potential risk identified under the Additional Financing is the extent to which
substitution effects between food and qat consumption will occur. Mitigation of this risk would
be medium-long term in nature, as it would necessarily have to involve societal changes. For the
time being, the Government has embarked on a public campaign and intends, with Bank support,
to organize workshops (based on the findings of a Bank report) over the next few months to raise
awareness and consult with stakeholders on a way forward. Also, the recent food price increase
may change the relative prices of qat/food commodities in favor of food and thus provide needed
incentives to switch production from qat to food.

47.      An additional risk is that extremely vulnerable families will not be reached by the
program, as support is targeted to families with able bodied members (male and female). This risk
will be mitigated by working in parallel through the Social Welfare Fund and other social
protection programs to minimize the risk of exclusion.

48.      Finally, difficulties might arise as a result of excluding current SWF beneficiaries during
this period of widespread food and energy price shocks. Working with SWF to develop a standard
phase-out of ineligible beneficiaries is likely to mitigate this risk substantially.




1 Estimating the causal impact of policy programs relies on identifying the differential impact of an
intervention compared with a suitable counterfactual. Lacking randomized allocation of interventions,
reliable unbiased estimates can be obtained by relying on comparison of changes over time in the variables
of interest (for example, poverty) in treated communities with changes over time observed in communities
that did not receive the program. To be successful, this approach requires detailed data collection at
baseline and after the intervention. Data relevant for the impact evaluation of the workfare program
supported by this project can be collected within the existing M&E system of the SFD and additional
funding for the needed analytical work from other sources.

                                                    11


                  Risk                    Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure

                          Risks to Additional Project Financing for Component 2
Substitution effects between food and          S         · monitoring substitution effects through the
qat consumption will occur                                   household surveys
                                                         · government has embarked on a public
                                                             information campaign to raise public
                                                             awareness
                                                         · participation of women as they are more
                                                             likely to use the money on food for the
                                                             family
Extremely vulnerable families will not         M         · working in parallel through the Social
be reached by the program, as support                        Welfare Fund and other social protection
is targeted to families with able bodied                     programs to reduce the risk of exclusion
members (male and female).
Potential difficulties in excluding            M         · working with SWF to develop a standard
current SWF beneficiaries during this                        phase-out of ineligible beneficiaries.
period of widespread food and energy
price shocks.

Risk Rating: H-High; S-Substantial; M-Moderate; N-Negligible or low risk

VIII. Financial Terms And Conditions For The Additional Financing

49.      The original financing was provided on IDA credit terms. The Additional Financing
would be provided as a grant from IDA acting as Trustee for the Food Price Crisis Response
Trust Fund.

                                                     12

                                ANNEX I. SFD III Financing Plan
                                  (To cover period from 2004-10)
                                            As of May 2008
                                                                                              (Source: SFD)
                                                     Signed amount
          Donor               Amount (Million)         (million US$)                  Remarks
Arab Fund (AF) 3                           US$50                    50   Effective May 2006
European                                EUR 7.84                         EUR 11.2 million is expected mid-
Commission 2                                                       9.4   2008
European Commission                     EUR 2.86                         Supporting health and demography
(Health Sector)                                                    3.6   sector
Islamic Dev. Bank 2                        US$10                    10   Effective April 2008
DFID 2                                 Sterling 12                       300,000 Sterling Pounds technical
                                                                 21.24   assistance
DFID 2 (Additional Fund)              Sterling 7.8                       500,000 Sterling Pound technical
                                                                    14   assistance
Dutch Government 3
Education 10784                           US$6.1
Education 13202                          US$8.85
Education 16025                         USD$ 10
Microfinance                             US$0.75
Health 10829                             US$2.75
Health 13256                             US$ 3.0
Health 13253                           US$ 0.921
Health 17014                             US$ 3.3
Health 15849                             US$ 4.2                 39.87
KFW                                        EUR 4                         Between 2004-2007 Four
                                           EUR 5                         agreements were signed
                                           EUR 6
                                           EUR 5                    26
OPEC Fund 2                        US$13 million                    13   Effective October 2004
Saudi Fund for Dev.                        US$20                    20   Effective September 2005
US Food Aid                               US$0.5
                                          US$0.5
                                         US$1.41
                                         US$ 3.8                  6.21
UNESCO                                   US$0.14                  0.14
World Bank (IDA)                           US$60                    60   Effective August 2004
World Bank (IDA)                           US$15                    15   Effective April 2008
Italy Government (Food                   US$0.95                  0.95
Aid program)
Yemen LNG                                US$0.41                  0.41   Aims to build 5 schools in Shabwa
                                                                         Governorate.
Saudi Fund for                           S.R.375                  100
Development
Oman Government                             US$5                     5
IFAD*                                    US$16.6                         Appraised for Rain fed Agriculture
                                                                  16.6   Project
Government (Labor                          US$50                         Financed by the Government for the
Intensive projects)*                                                50   years 2006-2008
World Bank (IDA)*                       US$11.24                         (Rain fed Agriculture and livestock
                                                                 11.24   Project) under implementation
Total                                                          472.66
Government                                                        10%
Beneficiary                                                        5%
*These programs were not envisaged during the preparation of the third phase. They will extend beyond the
third phase and have set of outputs and objectives that are in line with SFD overall objective.


