Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3861 - YEM 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Third Social Fund for Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  April 23, 2004 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3861 - YEM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 2004, between the REPUBLIC OF YEMEN  
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Social Fund for Development (SFD) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available 
to SFD, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SFD 
(the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) set 
forth in the table in Para A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for Sub-loans, Sub-
grants (as these terms are hereinafter defined), goods, works and consultants’ services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and "FMR" means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Micro-finance Operations Manual” means the manual, dated 
 
December 2000, specifying SFD’s managerial, financial and administrative policies and 
procedures for the execution of the micro-finance and income generating activities, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(e) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual dated July 2003, specifying 
SFD’s managerial, financial, administrative, engineering and environmental policies and 
procedures for the execution of the Project and the eligibility criteria for selection of  
Sub-projects (as this term is hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(f) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
SFD of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in para A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Para B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SFD pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“SFD” means the Social Fund for Development, established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Law No. 10 of 1997, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(k) 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by SFD, out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, to finance a Sub-project (as this term is hereinafter defined) 
under Parts A, B.1, C.1 and C.3 of the Project; 
 
(l) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by SFD out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, through any eligible intermediaries as defined in the Micro-
finance Operations Manual, to finance a Sub-project (as this term is hereinafter defined) 
under Part B.2 of the Project; and 
 
(m) 
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out under the Project 
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant or a Sub-loan, as the case may be. 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement,
 
an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(a) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by SFD on 
account of withdrawals made under Sub-grants under Parts A, B.1, C.1 and C.3 of the 
Project and Sub-loans under Part B.2 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for Sub-projects in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2014 and ending December 15, 2043.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of SFD, and any person whom he or she 
shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall cause SFD to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of SFD therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SFD to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SFD 
under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SFD, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SFD 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures necessary on its part to 
enable SFD to carry out SFD’s obligations referred to under Section 2.03 (b) of, and 
paragraph B of Schedule 2 to, the Project Agreement; and (b) except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, undertake not to amend the Operations Manual in any manner so as 
to reduce the operational autonomy of SFD. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in para A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Associati
on’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Association may have requested 
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
SFD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that SFD will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Law No. 10 of 1997 of the Borrower, the Operations Manual of SFD or 
the Micro-finance Operations Manual of the Borrower shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of SFD to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SFD or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and SFD. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SFD, 
and is legally binding upon SFD in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and SFD and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SFD in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning and International Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. BOX 175 
 
Sana’a 
 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
CENPLAN 
  2266 
  967.1.250.665 
 
Sana’a 
   CENPLAN 
YE 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI); or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By 
 
 
 
     /s/ Ahmad Mohammed Sofan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
          /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Regional Vice President 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
Middle East and North Africa
 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Sub-grants under 
31,680,000 
 
100% of amounts 
 
Parts A, B.1, C.1  
 
 
disbursed by SFD 
 
and C.3 of the Project 
 
 
 
(2) 
Sub-loans under 
520,000 
 
100% of amounts 
 
Part B.2 of the Project 
 
 
disbursed by SFD 
 
(3) 
Goods under 
1,190,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
Part C of the 
 
 
expenditures, 
 
Project 
 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
ex-factory cost); 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ 2,400,000 
 
87% 
 services 
under 
 
 
 
Part C of the 
 
 
 Project 
 
(5) 
Training under Part C 
2,440,000 
 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(6) Incremental 
Operating 
2,440,000 
 
85% 
 Costs 
 
(7) Unallocated 
1,030,000 
 
________
TOTAL 41,700,000
Page  14
-
12
-
12
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by SFD on account of the implementation of the Project, management and 
monitoring, including office rental, office supplies, vehicles maintenance, utilities, 
communications expenses, local contractual staff salaries, travel costs and per diem, 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, except for the first three contracts; 
(b) works under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, except 
for the first three contracts; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services of individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) training; (f) payments made by SFD on account of Sub-
grants; (g) payments made by SFD on account of Sub-loans; and (h) Incremental 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Para B.2 of this Schedule 1, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Para A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Para B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its 
determination. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex A. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to  
para B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in para A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the range of services and economic 
opportunities available to the poorer segments of the population through the carrying out 
of community development, micro-finance and capacity building programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Community Development
Provision of Sub-grants for the carrying out, by regional authorities, 
governmental institutions,
 
non-governmental organizations and local communities, of 
Sub-projects consisting of labor- intensive works and the delivery of community services. 
 
Part B
:
Micro-finance Schemes
Provision of: (1) Sub-grants to any eligible intermediaries as defined under the 
Micro-finance Operations Manual to build up the institutional capacity of such 
intermediaries to manage and deliver financial services; and (2) Sub-loans to such 
intermediaries for carrying out micro-finance Sub-projects. 
 
Part C
:
Capacity Building
1. 
Carrying out, through the provision of Sub-grants, goods, training and 
consultants’ services, Sub-projects to develop the capacity of non-governmental, 
community-based organizations and select governmental institutions to improve their 
efficiency and effectiveness in implementing their activities. 
 
2. 
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ services, a 
program to strengthen the institutional capacity of SFD and eligible private sectors 
entities to enhance their ability in implementing their activities. 
 
3. 
Carrying out, through the provision of Sub-grants, goods, training and 
consultants’ services, Sub-projects to enhance capacity, at the national level, to carry out 
social protection programs and formulate social policies. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008.
 
