Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
Report No. 8535
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1289-IN)
APRIL 18, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
Thi  document has a restcted     n ad may be usd by rei$dPe  only in de permane of
dte  offaie  duIes. 1t cotens may ot othewse be dicosed w0b Wodd abnk astulz"tX;



Currency Bquivalents
Currency Unit        -    Rupee, Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1.00             -    Rs 9.00  at appraisal
USS 1.00              -    Rs 16.40 on July 1, 1989
Weights and Measures
Metric System
(In part II, the Borrower used also English units)
Glossary
CAD      Command Area Development
CCA      Cultivable Command Area
CES      Consulting Engineering Services Ltd. (New Delhi)
CWC      Central Water Comission
DRP      Dam (Safety) Review Panel
ERR      Economic rate of return
FAO/CP   FAO Cooperative Program
GOB      Government of Bihar
GOI      Government of India
GOO      Government of Orissa
ha       hectare
lAS      Indian Administrative Service
LCB      Local competitive bidding
M&I      Municipal & industrial (water)
MDS      Micro distribution system
MIS      Management Information System
O&M      Operation & Maintenance
R&R      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDP      State domestic product
SIS      Subernarekha Irrigation System
WALMI    Water and Land Management Institute
WAPCOS   Water and Power Consultant Services Ltd.(New Delhi)
Fiscal Year of Borrower
Government of India: April 1 to March 31



T1* WORW BANK         101 OWFICIL USE ONLY
THE WOL SANKemuu 
Washigton. O.C. 0433
US.A.
O0c of Od CUW4GmnSi
0_ratiwo EIuwm
April 18, 1990
UN  TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Subernarekha
Irrixation Proiect (Credit 1289-IN)
Attached, for information,  is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on India - Subernarekha Irrigation Project
(Credit 1289-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borroer. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a rsuled dbutIon ad may be und b_, r F P1  only In th perfomanc
of thei ofcl dut Its tSntata may no othewie be dsckoed wthou Wo  Dak authultls



FOR OMCAL Use ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
iUIGAUON PROJECT
CRDIT 1289-Il
TABE OF CONTS
Page
Preface .......  ..  ..  .         ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  .   . . .  .  i
Evaluation Summary ....................... ...  ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW nROIM BANK'S PESPECTVm   .............
Project Identity  ..........................
Background ...... .. . .. ..                                             1
Project Objectives and Description  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..   2
Project Design and Organization ................ ... 4
Project Implementation  .....  .  ..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  6
Project Results .......  .         ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .   ..   9
Project Sustainability ...................... . 10
Bank Performance ......................... . 10
Borrower Performance ....................... . 11
Project Relationship ....................... . 12
Consulting Services ........................ . 12
Project Documentation and Data .................. . 12
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW nOM BORROWER'S PERSPECTVE . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Couments on Bank's Review Contained in Part I ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    . 14
Evaluation of Bank's Performance ................. . 22
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance ............... . 31
Assessment of Effectiveness of Borrower-Bank Relationship . . . . . . 38
PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................... . 39
Related Bank Loans and Credits (Table 1)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Project Timetable (Table 2) .....  .       .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 42
Schedule of Disbursements (Table 3) ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 43
Project Implementation (Table 4)  ....  .      .    .......  .  .  .  .  .   . 44
Project Cost (Table 5)  .....  .  ..         .......  .     .  .  .  .  .  .   . 49
Project Financing (Table 6) .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. 53
Direct Benefits (Table 7) ..5.4................... . 54
Economic Impact (Table 8) ..5.5.......... . SS
Studies (Table 9) ..5.6.......... ............. . 56
Status of Covenants (Table 10) ..5.9......... . 59
Staff Inputs (Table 11) .....  .  ..  .        .....  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 63
Missions (Table 12) ........................ . 64
MAP IBRD 16235 - India Subernarekha Irrigation Project (April 1982)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authoization.



i
PROJECT COXPLETIOB REPORT
iNIA
8 U'IklRSAM  DIGMATION PROJCT
(CREDIT 1289-I")
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Subernarekha
Irrigation Project In India, for which Credit 1289-IN in the amount of SDR 116.3
million was approved on August 17, 1982. The Credit was closed on April 30,
1989, (US$ 127.0 million equivalent) 25 months behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was made on August 18, 1989.
The PCR ias jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department IV of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), and the Goverament of Bihar for the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in February 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; data made available
by the Borrower for preparation of this report, and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
PROJICT COMPLETION REPORT
INDI
A BBRINAMRE DBIXGhTION PROJECT
(CRUDIT 1289-IN)
EVALUATION SUIOARY
Oblectives
1.       The project was  to fund a time slice of the larger,  multi-purpose
Subernarekha Irrigation System (SIS).   The objectives of the SIS itself are to
increase agricultural production through irrigation of an area of about 255,000 ha
in the states of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, to provide municipal and industrial
water supply, mainly to the city of Jamshedpur in Bihar and to the industries in and
around the city, and to provide flood moderation on the river in West Bengal and
Orissa.    The objectives of the project itself were to achieve certain physical
construction targets for selected facilities of the SIS in Bihar, to establish an
institutional framework and build up the Bihar Irrigation Department's establishment
for implementation of the works, and to carry out studies and investigations for the
preparation of subsequent phases (Part I of PCR, par:as 6-9).
Implementation Experience
2.       The project was implemented at a slower pace than projected, mainly because
of problems with initial staffing, procurement, site investigations, flood studies,
designs for major canal structures, and slow planning and design of the irrigation
distribution systems. Funding was a bottleneck only temporarily. Resettlement and
rehabilitation of displaced persons were less than adequately planned and managed,
and turned out to be a severe problem when the time of relocation approached.
Economic rehabilitation of displaced people proved to be even more difficult than
physical relocation, mainly due to inadequate policies and shortage of allottable
land.
3.       The  project  achieved  or even  exceeded major  physical  targets,  but
implementation was characterized throughout by an imbalance between progress of major
works (dams and main canals) on one hand, and of irrigation distribution systems,
preparation for water management and agricultural extension and training on the other.
This, and the occurrence of large cost overruns, is not uncommon in other irrigation
projects in India as well (Part I, paras 15-24).
4.       The Bank provided a heavy technical assistance input during implementation,
often substituting for consultants that should have been hired by the implementing
agency (Part I, para 32). Some major deviations from appraisal planning and design
assumptions occurred, including changes to the flood hydrology and thus to designs
of the two major dams (Part I, para 16). The implementation of the rural roads
component was disappointing, perhaps because it was not funded under the Credit, or
because its implementation was outside the control of the main implementing agency
(Irrigation Department of Bihar).
5.       The several studies and investigations included in the project proceeded,
with some exceptions, in an unsatisfactory way. Major delays or inadequacies occurred
notably in the planning of operation and maintenance in the Bihar part, in the systems
improvement studies (which should have been completed before appraisal, not during



iii
implementation), and in the drafting of a master plan for the Orissa irrigation
component.   The experience with water management pilot operations was largely
disappointing, although such pilots were meant to give important results for the
further design and operation of the irrigation distribution system (Part I, paras 19
and 20).
Results
5.       Project objectives in terms of physical construction targets were achieved
for major components, but not for others.   As a result, there are no benefits
forthcoming at completion of the project, not even on the 21,000 ha of irrigation area
to be built to "various stages of completion".   Principal planning and design
parameters for the irrigation systems have been developed and determined during the
course of the project, but some major system planning issues remained unresolved, such
as a decision on the need for the 'Rharkai' barrage and on how best to serve the
municipal and industrial water users over the next 20 to 30 years. Inhabitants of
a first group of displaced villages have been resettled at various sites, but their
economic future is unclear for at least a good part of the families.
C.       The institution building objectives of the project have been achieved in
part. The Bihar Irrigation Department created, over time, an adequate establishment
for implementation of the project, headed by capable civil service administrators.
Many lessons were learned by the staff associated with the project in terms of
planning, design and construction of large facilities for such multi-purpose project.
There remain weaknesses in areas such as multi-purpose system planning, basin
operations, and irrigation water management where further technical assistance and
training are needed.
7.       As a result of large cost overruns, delays in benefits, and an intervening
drop in projected international commodity prices, the economic rate of return of the
SIS (including sunk costs) has been re-calculated at only about 7a, ompared to 17S
at appraisal (Part I, para 28).
Sustainability
8.       The SIS remains incomplete at this stage (as foreseen at appraisal). Further
planning, design and construction tasks would appear to require further assistance,
which as already been requested by the Governments of India, Bihar and Orissa. The
Bank remains cautious about certain planning and operations issues which would appear
crucial to a sustained level of benefits from the SIS. Follow-up Bank projects are
recommended to support the completion of the SIS and its initial operations Part I,
para 30).
F_ndings and Lessons Learned
9.       Given the size and complexity of the multi-purpose SIS, many planning and
design details were left for subsequent study during implementation. This approach
(oflexiplanning') is now considered less appropriate.   Important investigations,
planning and design studies should be completed before appraisal, as they may later
hinder progress of design and construction, or preclude certain options for system
services and operations, or lead to protracted disputes between Bank and Borrower
during implementation (Part I, para 13).
10.      The provision of technical assistance to Borrower agencies by the Bank has
been very, and probably too extensive in this (and other) projects. Not only can the
Bank not sustain such level of technical assistance with limited supervision



iv
resources, but the use of Bank-employed consultants or extensive advice by Bank staff
may lead to itstances where the Bank is (directly or indirectly) blamed for the
result of such advice (Part I, para 32).
11.      Many procurement and construction quality problems could be solved by proper
design and sizing of bid packages (Part I, para 17). Terms of reference for important
studies should be discussed and agreed at appraisal (Part I, para 19).
12.      There is a danger in not funding under a loanlcredit certain project
components such as roads or agricultural extensions. Project agreements with a state
government do not automaticelly lead to satisfactory implementation by all concerned
agencies of that government.
13.      Resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons must be much better
planned beforehand and pLofessionally managed, as it represents a complex 'social
engineering" task in which project staff may not be experienced or skilled (Part I,
paras 13 (h) and 22.)



PROJECT COXPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SU EBN^BSKtX IREIGATIO  PROJECT
(CREDIT 1289-IN)
PART Is REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Proiect Namet          Subernarekha Irrigation Project
Credit Nr.:            1289-IN
Credit Amount:         SDR 116.3 M (USS 127.OM equivalent)
Board Approval:        Aug;st 17, 1982
RVP Unit:              Asia Region (South Asia at Board approval)
Country:               India
Sector/ Subsector:     Agriculture / Irrigation
Background
1.     The population of India in 1981 was about 700 M, growing at an annual rate
of 2.22 per year. Agriculture was and remains the dominant sector in the Tndian
economy, employing about 70? of the work force, providing about 452 of India's
exports, and contributing about 402 to GNP. It had been Government of India (GOI)
policy since Independence to expand agricultural production to reduce its dependence
on imports, and to raise the living standards of the rural poor. As a means to
increase production through intensification of land use and to stabilize production
in the face of the vagaries of the Indian monsoon climate, GOI and the Indian states
strived to expand irrigation. By 1980, some 53 M ha of irrigation existed, compared
with 25 M ha at Independence, accounting for about 60? of agricultural output.
2.     Although irrigation development had proceeded rapidly, it became increasingly
apparent that most schemes were performing much below their potential. This was due
mainly to poor planning and design of facilities, inadequate operation and maintenance
(O&M), unreliable water delivery and scheduling, and inequitable distribution to the
farmers.   To attempt to improve project efficiency, GOI introduced Comnand Area
Development (CAD) Authorities, to assist farmers with construction of on-farm
improvements, to cooreinate between irrigation and agriculture departments, and to
ensure the provision of agricultural support services. CAD was not entirely effective
in curing the shortcomiLgs of irrigation systems, however, and it was soon concluded
that the efficiency and reliability of irrigation services delivered by the main
conveyance systems was as important to allow efficient irrigated agriculture as
improvements at the lower end of the system. It was recommended that the government
system should be extended down towards the farm gates, to a level where turnouts
served about 5-8 ha units.   Improved 'water management' practices, both at the
irrigation system and at the farm level were to be tried out and introduced. For new
projects, a more thorough analysis of water supply and demand was called for, and the
results of the analysis, as well as new operational requirements, were to be
incorporated into the design of projects. The Bank supported this strategy through
various projects, starting in the late Seventies.



2
3.     The State of Bihar is one of the least developed in India.  Although rich in
minerals, its economy is highly dependent on agriculture, which contributed about
72Z of state domestic product (SDP), and employed about 83? of the working population.
The state has a larger proportion of tribals than many other states. By 1980, only
4.9 M ha out of a potential 12.4 M ha had been developed for irrigation, and this
mainly in the Gangetic plain. Little irrigation had reached the most backward, hilly
areas in the southern part of the state where the tribal population was concentrated.
Similarly, Orissa state has a large percentage of tribal population and is much less
developed than other Indian states. It has vast forest reserves and mineral deposits.
Agriculture contributed 692 of SDP, and employed about 792 of the working population.
In 1980, only 1.1 M ha had been developed for irrigation out of an irrigation
potential of over 5 M ha.
4.     Both ! har and Orissa place the highest priority on the rapid development of
their irrigation potential, and the interstate Subernarekha Irrigation System (SIS)
is a major component of this development. It is located in predominantly tribal areas
where living standards are below state averages. In Bihar, the SIS will also supply
municipal and industrial (M&I) water to Jamshedpur town and the large industrial
complexes in its environs.
5.     The Subernarekha river is an interstate river originating in Bihar and Orissa,
passing through West Bengal and back into Orissa on its way to the Bay of Bengal.
Some 70? of its catchment area of 18,950 km2 is in Bihar. It is prone to frequent
flooding of large areas in the lower reaches in West Bengal and Orissa. Proposals
for an interstate Subernarekha Irrigation System (SIS) date from 1973, but plans could
-nly be finalized once the three riparian states had reached a Tripartite Agreement'
in 1978, which allocated the river waters (at 75? dependable flows) among the three
states, stipulated sizes and allocation of storage facilities and arrangements for
flood moderation, made provisions for the order of execution of various components
and institutional arrangements for joint operation of the facilities, and defined the
sharing of joint costs.
Project Obiectives and Description.
6.     The project was to support a four-year time slice of the SIS.  The objectives
of the SIS as a whole are:
a)    increased agricultural production through irrigation of some 255,000
ha in all three states;
b)    water supply to industries and municipalities (mainly in Bihar); and
c)    reduction of flood damage in West Bengal and Orissa.
7.     The specific objectives of the project as funded by IDA weres
a)    to achieve physical construction targets in the time-slice;
b)    to establish an institutional framework and to build up the irrigation
department establishment required for implementation of works in Bihar;
c)    to carry out studies and investigations in preparation of subsequent
phases.
8.     The SIS general layout is shown in Map IBRD 16235.  Water will be supplied
from the Subernarekha river and its tributary Sanjay, both arising in Bihar, and from
the Rharkal tributary with catcbment partly in Orissa. They unite to form the main
Subernarekha upstream of Jamshedpur. Water will be stored by Chandil dam on the
Subernarekha, and Icbha dam on the Kharkai. The former will also maintain a flood
custhion to protect downstream interests.



3
9.     The major components of SIS in Bihar are:
a)    Chandil dam and ita canal system commanding 75,400 ha;
b)    Ichha dam and its canal system commanding directly 60,800 ha, and
indirectly 15,800 ha (Kharkai system);
c)    Kharkai barrage, which if constructed would supply the Kharkai system
and M & I water to ACityapur industrial complex;
d)    Galudih barrage comuanding about 8,800 ha in Bihar, but principally
providing water control to the Galudih Right Main Canal acting as a
feeder to the Orissa component; and
e)    Supply of M & I water to the industrial and mineral complexes in the
area.
In Orissa a total of some 90,000 ha would be irrigated, through direct supply from
Galudih Barrage (about 34,500 ha), through enlargement of Haldia dam (4200 ha), and
through construction of Jambhira and Baura dams (51,300 ha). In .ddition there would
be flood control and drainage works.  In West Bengal, the SIS wold provide for about
5000 ha irrigation. The total SI3 irrigation potential would thus be about 255,000
ha, 160,000 ha in Bihar, 90,000 ha in Orissa and 5,000 ha in West Bengal.  The
estimated total cost of SIS at 1982 prices was Rs. 7360 H (US $ 817.8 M). It was
planned to complete the entire scheme by 1994. The overall economic rate of return
(ERR) was estimated at 17.3Z.
10. The project components during the time slice in Bihar weres
a)    Partial construction of Chandil dam (50Z) and its left main canal (301);
b)    partial construction of Ichha dam (20X) and Icbha left and
right main canals (202);
c)    Partial construction of Galudih barrage (361) and 149 right main canal
(222);
d)    Construction of three distributaries in the Kharkai barrage command;
e)    Partial construction of 21,000 ha of micro distributici system (MDS);
f)    Establishment of a Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI);
g)    Establishment of an irrigation research station;
h)    Establishment of pilot irrigation areas (250 ha);
h)    Various studies, including a base line socio-economic survey, system
improvement investigations, a system O&M study, and evaluation of
ongoing rehabilitation of displaced persons; and
i)    introduction of a water pollution control program.
In Orissa, the following project components were to be implementeds
a)    Master plan of the Orissa SIS component;
b)    Establishment of a Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI); and
c)    Construction of a pilot water management study over about 250 ha.
No project components were contemplated for West Bengal.  The project was to be
carried out by the Irrigation Departments of Bihar and Orissa, respectively, under
separate Project Agreements. Details of target achievements for project components
are given in Part III, Table 4.
11.    The project as defined above was estimated to cost Rs 1637 H (US$ 181.9 M)
at 1982 prices (see Part III, Table 5). The timeslice activities were scheduled to
be completed by March 1987.   Two further components were defined but not to be
financed by IDA. A rural road component comprising about 100 km of construction and



4
uprating in the Bihar project area at a cost of Rs 68.6 M was t0 be funded from the
Tribal Sub-plan budget, and an agricultural extension improvement component for the
Bihar area was to be financed from IDA Credit 761-IN.
Pro1ect Design and Organization
12.    The ovet--- incept of a multi-purpose water resource development scheme in
the backward areas of Bihar and Orissa, with a first time slice to be funded under
an IDA Credit, was and remains sound.  The objectives of the SIS and the project
itself were well established and shared by all concerned parties.   Considerable
efforts were made in planning the overall SIS before appraisal of the project, with
water operations and water requirement studies receiving the greatest attention.
Project preparation by Water and Power Consultancy Services Ltd. (WAPCOS) and FAO/CP
was thorough for the time slice in Bihar and fully documented, culminating in a very
detailed Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). WAPCOS was and still is involved in master
planning and feasibility studies, giiing consistency of approach.  Yet many aspects
of the overall SIS planning and design were, intentionally or othetwise, left for-.
future study and decision. The SAR exulicitly advocated such "flexibility in project
design"3.   While flexibility built Into a water supply system in the face of
uncertainty about future needs (agricultural, human and industrial) has its merits,
the concept of "flexiplannings then en vogue within the Bank actually called for
taking only a minimum of decisions and postponing those perceived to be less urgent
until such time as more information was available to take them. Some of the design
and operations aspects mentioned in the SAR as requiring further study were
justifiably delayed and were in fact resolved during project implementation.
13.    In retrospect, more detailed and nore comprehensive planning and design should
have been done before appraisal, notably with regard to the following aspects of the
SIS (and the project), which would have afferted design and construction during the
project:
a)    Formulation  of  detailed  basin  and  project  operation  rules  and
procedures, both for flood and normal operation was omitted.   The rules
contained in the Tripartite Agreement are too broad to permit full planning
of certain components and the framing of operation plans and real-time
operation procedures for project facilities such as reservoirs, main
conveyance canals and structures and water distribution systems. This aspect
was addressed during supervision, but is not yet resolved.
b)    The long-term requirements for municipal and industrial (tAl) water in
the Jamshedpur area, well beyond the year 2000, and the available sources of
supply to meet them. These needs are of the highest economic importance for
the area, but have been insufficiently identified and alternative means to
satisfy them have not been adequately analyzed, in spite of "system
improvement studies" undertaken during the project (and rejected by the Bank).
The matter of cost recovery for M&I water remains unaddressed so far.
c)    The phasing of various components of the SIS was addressed by the SM,
but was perhaps not sufficiently analyzed, and in some aspects was left open
for further study. There were certainly legal constraints imposed by the
provisions of the Tripartite Agreement that had to be taken as given, short
of opening the interstate discussions that led to the agreement again. It
is now felt that the project attempted to start too many SIS components at
3 P&r6graph 2.04 of SAR



5
the same time, and that the time to completion was severely underestimated
(with funding having been identified as the main determinant of project
progress, which turned out not to be the case). Greater emphasis should have
been placed on the completion of the Chandil irrigation system to provide
early benefits, with considerably more conveyance, distribution and micro-
distribution systems to be completed, while the Ichha system should have been
limited to dam deaign and site investigations instead of initiating its
construction at an early stage of SIS development. Also Galudih barrage and
its right main canal should have been targeted for completion within the time
slice to permit Orissa to derive earlier benefits. Kharkai barrage and its
canals are mentioned as components of the SIS in the SAR, with the implication
that they would be included in a future phase. Timing for their construction
was to be studied during the project. Subsequent analysis by FAO/CP indicated
that such inclusion would be inappropriate, and engineering considerations
suggested that the Adityapur industrial complex and copper installation
planned to be supplied by the Murakati distributary from Kharkai barrage might
be more appropriately served by pumping.  Preparation and appraisal should
have analyzed the Kharkai complex in the light of alternatives for serving its
potential customers, and the Bank should have unequivocally stated its
position on the issue in the SAR. The issue became controversial in 1986, and
has not been resolved satisfactorily 4.
d)    The concept for SIS should have included plans for a hydrometeorological
network in the basin, not only to enable proper operation of reservoirs in
case of floods, but also for normal supply operations. A design study for
such system was finally couissioned by GOB in 1988, at the insistence of Bank
staff.
e)    The inclusion of an O&M study both for Bihar and Orissa under the
project was appropriate. The SAR recognized that such study had important
implications for the design of project facilities, and a covenant stipulated
early completion of the study.  In retrospect, certain important decisions
regarding O&M should have been taken before any designs and construction
proceeded, i.e., by appraisal, the detailed basin and project operation rules
should have been formulated before the O&M study was begun, and at least
certain parts of the study should have been prepared for Bihar and Orissa
jointly, as they affected operations for both states. Regrettably, the study
was commissioned only in 1988. The terms of reference of the studies should
have been settled by appraisal.
f)    Site surveys and investigations for major structures, such as Ichha
dam, and Chandil left main canal tunnel and cut and cover sections should
have been to normal engineering standards.   All were of little more than
reconnaissance level of detail, with tae result that during construction major
and costly changes in design and alignment were made.
g)    The preparation of the Orissa irrigation component of the SIS to feasi-
bility level should have been concurrent with the project; instead, only a
'master plan" was specified. As a result, this important project for the
development of Orissa is delayed by several years while the study is
completed.
4 GM has cOMented extensively on this mtter, se Part I! (b).



6
h)    The need for a large and complex resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R)
operation associated with Chandil and Ichha dams was well known at appraisal.
Little planning for this large task was, however, undertaken, either before
appraisal or after. The SAR limited itself to a statement of GOB policies for
resettlement and to possible solutions to rehabilitation. While the condition
of the Project Agreement that GOB and Government of Orissa (GOO) formulate R&R
plans two years ahead of submergence may have been deemed sufficient at the
time, it has become clear that neither government had the experience and
institutional ability to work out such plans, and that plans actually drawn
up since had serious shortcomings with regard to the economic rehabilitation
aspect. The SAR stated that GOB had formulated a general policy on R & R; but
the policy alone could not substitute for planning, and the statement turned
out not to be correct.   The identification of relocation villages, their
layouts, the preparation of a detailed logistic plan for relocation and more
specific plans for economic rehabilitation should have been insisted upon, and
the legal documents should have been suitably worded.   The institutional
arrangements for R&R -were also deficient in that planning and implementation
was largely left to the project management which was more oriented towards
engineering and land acquisition aspects and procedures, and involved the
administration of Singbhum district, which should have been properly concerned
with this task, less than adequately.
14.    The project was not really innovative, but introduced several concepts to
planning, design and operation of irrigation systems that were new at least in the
context of Bihar and Orissa. A new feature for a Bank project in India was the
multi-purpose nature of the SIS.  The SIS presented a level of complexity not
encountered in prior projects.   It is noteworthy that no power generation was
foreseen at the large dams at appraisal (it is not known whether this was considered
during initial planning). The inclusion of power facilities at Chandil dam, albeit
as an 'afterthought', was strongly suggested by Bank supervision missions, and a
canal head power plant was eventually included in the design, although Bank staff
continue to believe that a power plant at Chandil should make use of flows other than
those diverted into the Chandil left canal.
Project Implementation
15.     After a slow start following Credit effectiveness, the project proceeded at
a modest rate in spite of shortages of staff, non-release of forest land by GOI, and
quality  control  problems.    However,  in  late  1985  the  project  deteriorated
significantly, due to inadequate funding, poor quality control, and material
shortages in addition to the impediments noted above. Required studies for 0 & M
planning were much overdue. A mid-term review mission visited the project in January
1986, and as a result of its analysis of the problems and Bank representations to
GOB, the project progressively improved. Work on Chandil dam proceeded on time
throughout the project.   Two one year extensions were granted to give a revised
closing date of April 30, 1989.   While the project took two years longer than
scheduled, most physical construction targets were either achieved or exceeded, with
the important exception of canal structures and minorlmicro distribution systems.
16.    The following major physical variations occurred in the Bihar component:
a)     On the Chandil left main canal,  cut and cover ducts were proposed at
appraisal, but following more detailed site investigations and technical
assistance of a Bank consultant, designs for these structures were converted
to tunnels. GOB informs that further investigations call now again for cut



7
and cover ducts as the tunnel solution was found to be unfeasible (see Part
II).
b)     Following revised flood studies for Chandil and Ichha dams by consultants to
GOB, the Dam Review Panel (DRP) recommended the addition of one overflow
section (from 12 to 13) and a parapet wall on the earth section for Chandil
dam, as well as an increase in the height of Ichha dam by one meter.
c)     Although the proposed Kharkai barrage and its right main canal were not
included under the project, the Bank agreed to a request from GOB to construct
a section of the Rharkai main canal from km 17 to km 29 in order to convey
water from Ichha dam (via a link canal) to the three Kharkai distributaries.
d)     At appraisal,  the three Kharkai distributaries were  estimated to cost
Rs 35.1 M. Due to a realignment of the Murakati distributary from the flood
plain into the neighboring hills due to objections from mining interests, the
cost of the three distributaries rose to Rs 45.8 M during the time slice, and
to Rs 50.9 M at completion.5 The FAO/CP economic review mission of January
1986 examined costs and benefits of this distributary, and considered it to
be highly uneconomic.   Engineering problems were also formidable.   As a
result, the Bank declined to finance this distributary.
e)     A hydro-electric plant was added to the design of the Chandil left main canal
head to utilize canal flows for power generation.
With more detailed site investigations, flood studies, system optimization studies
and layout planning at preparation, these changes could have been avoided.
17.    Some difficulties were encountered with LCB procurement procedures and
contractors' response which led to delays, particularly of canal construction, due
to the fact that both the GOB Irrigation Department and local contractors were
unaccustomed to the procedures and provisions. Several contracts were let on the
same reach of a canal for different types of work (earthwork, lining, structures).
As a result, quality and integrity of construction for such reaches suffered. Larger
bid packages, comprising complete construction of an entire section, would have led
to more responsive bids and better construction quality, including use of proper
machinery by contractors. Construction quality improved after Bank insistence on
better quality control procedures.
18.    Major dam safety issues arose in the project. A Bank mission examined records
and calculations available at Jamshedpur in January 1986, and found that flood
estimates for Chandil and Icbha dam made by the consultants (CWC) had not been
updated since 1978 in the case of Chandil and 1974 in the case of Ichha. Of more
concern was the disagreement by WAPCOS (the consultants that had prepared the
project) with CWC estimates. The DRP, at that time, made no recommendations on the
matter.   The Bank raised its concern with GOB;  as a result, independent Indian
experts carried out an updating of the flood estimates, which proved to be
significantly higher than those of CWC, and the DRP eventually recommended the
modifications to the dams noted above.
19.    The implementation of studies was less satisfactory (see Part III, Table 9),
except for the socio-economic baseline survey.   The rural roads studies were
5    i09 Informs that the reson for the rel Ignasot of Murakrtt distributary towards the hil a*s du. to
the desire to Include an additional Irrigation ara* of 10,000 ha, and that th, afignmnt now goes directly
through the mining areas. (See Part II).



8
completed satisfactorily only following persistent Bank requests, and the system O&M
study was only recently awarded to consultants after several attempts by the Bank to
obtain mutual agreement on Terms of Reference. The system improvement study was to
determine the best location, design and timing for Kharkai barrage and two major
canals. It was completed in 1986, but the consultant's report is not useful due to
lack of data and thorough analysis.
20.    A major shortcoming was GOB's failure to seriously attend to water management
matters which are important if predicted benefits are to derive from the project.
The pilot water management area in the Palna tank command is incorrectly designed,
installed and operated, permitting two-season paddy irrigation in the upper reaches
and minimal irrigation at the tail. The pilot is of little use for decisions on
design and operation of the minor/micro distribution systems. The WALMI at Patna is
only in the preliminary stages of construction, although GOB has conducted some 23
WALMI courses in other facilities.   The WALMI in Orissa is well advanced and
conducting an active training program.
21.    The Bank requested, from 1986 on, that further studies be made which were not
specified in the SAR, but were considered essential for further implementation of the
project and for a possible follow-up project). Such studies referred to projection
of M&I water demand, a re-appraisal of the proposed Kharkai facilities and
alternatives, to computer requirements in support of project management and to
planning and design of a hydro-meteorological network. Only the two last studies
were started under the project.
22.    The R&R activities under the project were perceived to proceed, at least
initially, in an acceptable way.  R&R evaluation studies by consultants (Bihar
Institute for Rural Development) were and are being competently executed and were of
significant assistance in monitoring R&R progress and problems. However, in February
1988 the Bank noted a deterioration in R & R, at a time when actual relocation became
necessary. A more detailed review in mid 1988 found such adverse conditions, in view
of a threat of flooding of the first villages, that the Bank suspended disbursements
in October 1988. After a Bank mission in February 1989 and the presentation of a
revised implementation plan by GOB in March 1989, the Bank reinstated disbursements.
R&R problems are mainly attributed to insufficient planning, inadequate policies,
insufficient management attention, and staff that was not always properly motivated
and trained.
23.    The few minor components included under the project for Orissa were severely
delayed. After many Bank representations, preparation of a master plan study (now
actually a full feasibility study) and a water management pilot are now in
satisfactory progress. An 0 & M study was considered premature and not yet started.
24.    The   roads  component  and  agricultural  development  activities  were
unsatisfactory. Progress in the former was one of the key Bank conditions for the
first closing date extension.   Although GOB took steps to minimally meet this
condition, little subsequent activity has  occurred.  While some tentative moves
have been made to establish the agricultural research station at Gatsilah, extension
services have shown little improvement in staffing and facilities, in spite of
persistent Bank  representations.   Had  both  roads  and  agricultural extension
components been funded from the Credit, performance would likely have been better.
The main reason for the delay in roads and extension components may simply be that
these are the responsibility of GOB departments other than the Irrigation Department.



9
Project Results
25.    The project (time slice) was not to produce significant benefits during this
first phase of construction. Instead, SAR targets were expressed as percentages of
physical completion of components.   The project achieved, and for some elements
exceeded the time slice targets, although aftet a two year extension (see Part III,
Table 4.) Generally, targets for major works (dams and main canals) were exceeded,
but major structures on Chandil left main canal (railway crossing, tunnels, cut and
cover ducts), and especially distribution and micro-distribution systems were
seriously delayed. Due to these delays, it is doubtful that more than token benefits
will be obtained, even when Chandil dam impounds water in 1990. Major reasons for
the delays in irrigation benefits are ti) slow planning, design and procurement for
major canal structures, distribution micro distribution systems; and (ii) delays in
land acquisition by GOB and release of forest land by GOI. In spite of the long
delay until project benefits can commence, the project has made a significant start
to the overall SIS which calls for prompt completion.
26.        GOB's low interest in the conduct of the water management pilot, in the
development of an adequate rural road network and in a strong extension service were
disappointing. The latter will be vital for project success in view of the largely
traditional type of agriculture practiced by mainly tribal farmers without experience
in irrigated agriculture.
27.       The estimate of Rs 4067 M (US$ 257.4 M) for the final cost of the project
exceeds the appraisal estimate by 150Z in Rupee terms, and by 412 in terms of US
dollars. The large cost overrun in local currency is due to low estimates, additional
vork quantities and higher local price escalation than foreseen at appraisal. The
Dollar cost overrun would also appear larger had the exchange rate not been assumed
as constant at appraisal (a practice then prevalent, but now changed).  The SAR
exchange rate was Rs 9.0lUS$, whereas the Rupee in fact devalued by almost one half
by the end of the period (Rs 16.4/US$ in July 1989). Disbursements are shown in Part
III, Table 3. The Credit was fully disbursed by August 18, 1989, in spite of a
substantial devaluation of the Rupee against the SDR.
28.       A re-assessment of likely project benefits (see Part III, Tables 7 and 8)
indicate that benefits in physical terms would be largely unchanged from SAR
estimates (with the possible exception of M&I water supply, but see GOB's comment in
Part II), but would be substantially less in (economic) value terms. This is due to
the steep reduction in projected world market prices for major crops, notably rice,
after appraisal.   It is noteworthy that the SAR contains a footnote (on p.60)
mentioning new commodity price forecasts issued after the SAR was finalized, which
would have caused a drop in the ERR from 17S to 14.5Z, had they been used. Combined
with the cost overrun and delays in benefit accrual, this has unfavorable
implications for the economic viability of the project (including sunk cost). The
recalculated ERRs (Table 8) indicate a severe reduction for all components of the
SIS. The overall ERR for the SIS as a whole dropped from 171 to 7Z.
29.       The project has improved GOB's ability to plan, design and construct large
irrigation projects to a certain extent, both through experience gained by management
and staff, and through considerable Bank technical assistance, although much more
institution building romains to be done. GOB's contributions to this report are
evidence of a greater awareness of planning and design problems, a continued
resistance to addressing some crucial planning issues notwithstanding. The Bank's
insistence on more carefully planned and implemented R & R, together with the
formulation of a state R&R policy (now in process) has provided a precedent for
future R & R activities in Bihar. GOB's insistence on entrusting new flood studies



10
to private consultants (against opposition by the CWC), the positive role of the DRP,
and the resulting modification of dam designs have set a major example of dam safety
assurance methodology and awareness in India.
Proiect Sustainability
30.       The project was not designed to create a sustainable scheme at completion,
as only initial phases of construction were to be completed.  Lessons learned by
government staff with regard to thoroughness of investigations, need for
comprehensive planning and quality assurance in construction can be expected to be
applied to the next phase of the SIS. The failure to properly implement the water
management pilot scheme, the reluctance to revisit and address certain planning and
basin operation aspects and the mixed performance !.n R&R, however, raise concerns.
If irrigation system management fails to lead to reliable and equitable distribution
of water (as was the case with the Bihar pilot project), chances to achieve the
economic benefits from irrigation are greatly diminished. GOB and GOO will have to
induce farmers to follow more or less the design crop pattern, allowing no paddy
cultivation in the dry season when applicable. If this does not occur (see the Palna
pilot project results), inadequate water would be available in the tail reaches,
resulting in inequity. A further risk perceived by some is related to the reluctance
of tribal farmers to grow more than only one crop (rainfed)crop.   With project
economic viability based on an assumption of 551 intensity in the dry and 22? in the
hot season, it will be important that farmers' attitudes adapt to the year-round
availability of water, which makes the extension service very important.  Also,
changes in attitude of the departmental staff towards irrigation management are
needed. Further Bank involvement, through a follow-up project already requested, is
recommended and justified to assist with completion of what was begun and in the
crucial phase of starting irrigation.
Bank Performance
31.       Subject to the qualifications stated in paragraph 13 above, the appraisal
was well documented but not sufficiently detailed. It should have been delayed to
allow for resolution of some crucial planning and design questions, and might have
put less emphasis on the "flexiplanning' approach then en vogue.
32.       The Bank can take credit for the more or less successful completion of the
time slice of the project. Large technical inputs were made at the Bank expense,
including aspects such as canal operations, water management, hydraulic structures,
tunnels/cut and cover ducts, 0 & H, hydro-meteorology, agricultural research and
extension, dam safety, training, and R & R. Table 8B in Part III indicates a very
high Bank supervision input (44 large and small missions, 258 staff-weeks), perhaps
more than could and should be sustained in the long run for such project.  Such
assistance should have been provided by consultants to GOB, both domestic and
foreign, financed under the Credit, and future projects should adopt such approach.
Use of consultants not employed by the Bank would also help avoid situations where
blame may be put later on a consultant employed by the Bank, and thus indirectly on
the Bank. This issue concerns, however, not only this but all projects in the water
resource sector in India. At the mid-term review in January 1986, the project was
qualified as problem project, but the review mission aptly diagnosed the shortcomings
and the Bank followed up with an intensive technical assistance program, which
together with GOB's cooperation brought the project back to satisfactory
implementation. There were, admittedly, certain frictions and disagreements among
the Bank staff associated with supervision in the field office and at headquarters,
which has led understandably to some confusion on the part of GOB. It is possible
thAt these problems could have been avoided through a more detailed SAR and better



11
comnunications between the Bank Headquarters and Field Staff. It is felt, however,
that the contribution of all supervision staff and consultants, temporary frictions
notwithstanding, has ultimately greatly helped the planning and implementation of the
project.
Borrower Performance
33.       Planning and design of this complex, multipurpose scheme were of higher
caliber than customary before, yet not fully comprehensive and thorough. GOB used
the most experienced consultants then available in India (WAPCOS), but early use of
international expertise for such tasks would have greatly improved the planning.
GOB's performance throughout the project has been variable.  In the aspects of
design, construction standards, dam safety and quality control, GOB acted positively
to correct deficiencies pointed out by the Bank. Apart from a brief period in 1985,
funding was generally adequate. In other aspects, such as R & R, water management,
roads, training and agriculture, GOB often failed to respond to Bank's requests for
improvement.  Project top management was generally strong with high calibre and
dynamic administrators (from the Indian Administrative Service), with the notable
exception of managing R&R.  Installation and use of a comprehensive management
information system, with a stringent and state-of-the-art project scheduling and
monitoring mechanism, would have helped to keep the project better on track.
34.       GOO performed well with respect to water and land management training, and
the WALII is making excellent progress. The studies, however, were subject to delay
and confusion for much of the project period, but they are now proceed;.ng well. GOO
has given the highest priority to the preparation of the Orissa irrigation component,
and their consultants are making good progress.
35.       The relationship of GOB with the CWC led to some confusion and delays. CUC
is accepted by the states as the apex technical body in water resource development
in India, and CWC's judgement is often accepted as the last word in controversial
engineering matters. This has led to reluctance to employ other consultants, and to
occasional conflict with the role of dam safety panels (which should be independent),
and with CWC's own role of a "consultant", albeit without any formal assignment,
contract or accountability.  Also, CWC may have assumed more of a lead role in
matters of basin water resources management and operations.  A problem with GOI
resulted from GOI's delay in granting approval for use of forest land for project
purposes, which would appear to be in violation of the Credit Agreement.
Project Relationships
36.       The project throughout its implementation has been marked by most cordial
relationships between Bank and GOB and GOO. In the case of the former, on technical
issues there was generally good coordination. Only with respect to the 'Kharkail
question, to R & R, roads and agriculture have there been serious confrontations.
The inadequacies of GOB in executing the R & R program for Chandil dam were the cause
of the suspension of disbursements, leading to a temporary cooling of these good
relations, but with a constructive attitude on both sides and with GOB's commitment
to corrective measure, the situation has normalized.  The Bank had also informal
relations with non-governmental organizations involved in R&R, and benefitted to a
certain extent from these.
Consulting Services
37.       GOB has demonstrated willingness to use consultants, perhaps more than many
other Indian states. They were used for socio-economic survey, dam safety studies,



12
O & M criteria preparation, computerized MIS, structure design, system studies, and
hydro-meteorology.  GOO retained consultants to assist in the preparation of the
Orissa component.   H.wever, all consultants employed were Indian individuale or
institutions, considered appropriate in several fields, but not all. Except for the
System Improvement Studies found inadequate by the Bank, consultant inputs for
studies were satisfactory, but not truly innovative. The CVC acting as consultants
to GOB provided a positive service with respect to Chandil but not for Ichha dam;
Bank missions reported adversely on site investigations for the latter structure.
Proiect Documentation and Data
38.       The SAR gave adequate guidance to the executing staff and Bank supervision
missions. Much data and computational details included provided good background
information but were not necessary for supervision.   The legal documents were
adequate except in the case of R & R, where they are particularly weak.
39.       Data required for preparation of this report were readily available due to
their prompt preparation following Credit closing. GOB gave good assistance to the
Bank team, and demonstrated a sincere commitment in its Part II contribution. GOO,
with considerably less input, also cooperated fully.



13
PART It
PROJECT REVIEW FOM BORROWJ'RS PERSPECTIVE



14
COMMENTS ON BANK'S REVIEW CONTAINED IN PART I
Para 10.    Proiect Componentss
(a & b) The Subernarekha Multipurpose Project as envisaged, comprised
essentially of four units viz. Chandil Dam and LBC System, Icha Dam and Right
and Left Bank Canal System. Mharkai Barrage 7 Right and Left Bank Canals,
Galudih Barrage and Right and Left Canal Systems. The aforesaid four units are
independent in themselves and were capable of providing partial benefits to their
respective comamnd areas as and when the Headvork and portion of canal systems
got completed.   Moreover, for a Multipurpose project of the dimensions of
Subernarekha Project, it is expedient that construction of major Headwork and
Canal Systems should be taken up simultaneously as far as possible, because with
the passage of time, the element of price escalation would have come into play,
resulting in inordinate increases in the cost of the integral Project. Besides,
if the major components of the Project were taken up one by one, this would have
resulted in time-run and the incidental delay in realization of overall benefits
from the Project. In fact, with this end in view, the execution of Icha Dam and
canals were envisaged to commence side by side with Chandil dam and canal
systems, but due to suggestions of the World Bank for further hydrological
investigation related to determination of PMF of Icha Dam and further geological
investigation, the procurement actions for the main Icha dam were substantially
delayed. Thus, the basic planning by the Project authorities for creation of
early irrigation potential from Icha dam suffered.1
(c) As regards, Galudih Barrage Right Bank Canal ex-Galudih Barrage, it
may be pointed out that works have been progressing generally according to
originally set targets. The Barrage will be completed including installation
of gates by Dec. '90 and canal will be completed by Dec. '91. It may be observed
in this context that even if the Galudih RBC could have been completed earlier,
no tangible benefits would have accrued, since the Government of Orissa has yet
to make headway in the supporting irrigation infrastructures in their territory.2
(d)   As per guidelines and approved norms for formulation of estimates
for Multipurpose Project in the country, the cost of development of roads in the
command areas is not included. However, if the World Bank could have agreed on
its funding in the first time slice credit assistance, this could have been
incorporated in the Project estimate. Funding of the road component may be
considered by the World BAnk when the proposal for Phase-II Credit Assistance
is submitted to the World Bank.
I It is not correct that the (sub)systems mentioned above are independent
in themselves. At least the Galudih sub-system (and with it the Orissa sub-
system) cannot function without a major reservoir upstream.  The reason for
simultaneous uptake of almost all sub-systems was more political than rational.
Price escalation due to delayed start of some sub-systems does not (necessarily)
affect the economic viability and choice between different schedules, as it
impacts on nominal, not necessarily real prices.
2 The argument that there is no irrigation command to be served yet from
Galudih barrage is correct; but earlier completion of Galudih might have induced
Orissa to take up at least the planning and design of its sub-system earlier.



15
The construction of Rharkai Barrage and Kharkai Right Bank and Left Bank
Canals was agreed in principle by the World Br- even at the time of executing
the Credit Agreement, and only the question of iptimal time for taking up the
construction of the Barrage was left to be decided subsequently, based on System
Improvement Studies to be carried out by consultants.   The World Bank had
observed then that in the first phase of the Projedt, there would be ample water
available from Chandil and Icha dam and hence the construction of Xharkai System
Barrage and head reach of the Rharkai Right Main Canal might be deferred to a
subsequent stage. The Terms of Reference for System Improvement Investigations
were prepared in consultation with the World Bank and the aforesaid study was
awarded to M/s Consulting Engineering Services, New Delhi.  The consultants
submitted their final Report on the studies in Oct. 1986. The consultants have
given their considered recommendations as unders
It will be more beneficial to complete Kharkai Barrage by May, 1990
and meet the requirements of Kharkai L B C and Kharkai R B C to the
extent possible from run of the river supplies rather than defer
its completion to coincide with that to Icha dam in 1993.'
The World Bank commented that the Studies carried out by the aforesaid
consultants were deficient and need to be revised with additional data analyses
to make the same more meaningful in accordance with the requirements stated in
the Staff Appraisal Report and Terms of Reference. It may be noted that the
aforesaid studies were carried out by the consultants in conformity with TOR,
earlier agreed by the World Bank. As regards the suggestion that studies should
conform to the requirements of the SAR, it may be observed that the picture as
visualized in the SAR in respect to construction scheduling of Icha dam has
substantially changed in the present context. As per the SAR, the construction
of Icha dam was to commence from Oct. '94, but the event has been overtaken and
now this could be possible only from April '89.
The World Bank is well aware of the State Government's preference to the
execution of Kharkai Barrage System, which is planned to be completed in two
years time, thus providing early benefits in shape of water supply to the ever-
growing complex of Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority, besides
Kharif irrigation to 12,000 ha. On the other hand, the alternative arrangement
for catering to the area through the Icha canal system is not going to take
less that four year, as the construction of Icha dam has been taken up only this
year after April '89. However, the Icha dam will not be in position to support
on long term basis, the requirement of Rharkai customers. It may be noted that
out of 6.8 Lakh acre ft. of live storage provided in Icha dam, 1.5 lakh acre ft.
have been specifically earmarked for Orissa and the balance storage of 5 lakh
acre ft. has been assessed adequate enough only to meet the irrigation demands
of Icha RBC and Icha LBC command area, beside the H & I requirements of the
region. The department has also thought over the pumping options recomended
by FAO/CP. It is not secret that the state is very much short of power and the
position is not expected to change in the near future. In face of dismal power
position, the pumping options do not appear to be attractive. The report on
economic evaluation of the Kharkai complex by the FAO/CP Team has also been
examined at this end. The Team appears to have gone by feeling that Rharkai
complex could not be completed before the completion of Icha dam in 1993. This
assumption itself is primafacie incorrect. Further, the team has complained of
lack of data and on this consideration, not much of reliance need to be attached



16
to this report.   Incidentally, the pre-feasibility level study of pumping
options to meet the M & I requirements of the Rharkai customers was worked out
at this end.  In view of high dynamic and static head, the capacity of the
pumping installation worked out to be as high as about 3,500 H.P. to meet the
M & I requirements. As the life of pump and motors can be hardly five years
(30,000 running hrs.), the number of replenishment will be 19 to bring the same
level with the life of a gravity scheme, which is normally taken as 100 years.
Besides, even the annual energy cost of the pumping plant works out to the tune
of about Rs. 11 Million. The annual cost of the pumping plant works out as much
higher compared to the gravity system through Kharkai barrage and Kharkai RBC,
the annual benefit being the same in either case.
In view of the facts stated above, the State Government feels strongly
that the construction of Rharkai barrage and canals from 0 to 17.2 KM is the
best alternative and would provide early irrigation benefits, sizeable
irrigation to the predominantly tribal population in this region. Also, the
need for early completion of the Kharkai LBC needs hardly be overemphasized,
because it would be the actual source of supplying water for M & I usages to the
vastly growing Adityapur Industrial Compleses. There is already acute shortage
of water in this region. It is hoped that the Bank will appreciate the above
viewpoint and will reconsider their stands for any further study regarding
execution of Kharkai Barrage. In case, however, the Bank still feels otherwise,
the matter would be referred to the Central Water Commission for carrying out
further techno-economic evaluation of the alternative proposals.3
Para  13:   The  Government  of  Bihar have  been  considering  various
parameters of economic rehabilitation based on other Projects in India. After
the policy parameters have been decided, a comprehensive R&R Plan including the
action plan for economic rehabilitation of the oustees from the two reservoirs
of the Project shall be formulated. The plan would also show the identification
of the various resettlements sites, their layouts, the program for completing
the balance infrastructural development works at the resettlement sites and also
the detailed logistic plan in a given time-frame for relocation of the various
oustees.
Proiect Implementations
Para 16: a) Chandil LMC:
According to investigation carried out by the World Bank consultants and
CWC Officials in consultation with the Resident Geologist, a tunnel was proposed
at KM 16.25.  However, because of non-availability of good rock cover for the
portal sites, the tunnel proposition could not be feasible.   In the given
situation, it has now been decided to construct an RCC cut and cover duct in
place of the original proposal of a tunnel.   There will not be much cost
implication as the same executing agency has agreed to do the work for the
common items and agreed rates and only for new items, rates are to be decided
3 The Bank remains unconvinced of the need for the Kharkai barrage, but
is willing to reconsider its position on the basis of a proper, comprehensive
and thorough feasibility study particularly in view of any new investigations
that GOB may have carried out.



17
under the clause of 'extra item' of the operating contract.4
d) During the appraisal study of the Project, the World Bank Mission had
suggested to extend the original command of Kharkai RBC System by detouring
through the existing hilly range. The reconnaissance level study had revealed
then that a very good stretch of irrigable area of about 10,000 ha. (gross) was
available beyond the hilly range. It was considered desirable to include this
patch of command also even if the cost would have been more because of the
increase in length of the distributary and also because o' negotiating diffic-:.t
terrain in its alignment. Accordingly, the Merakati distributary was envisaged
so as to include the extended command of the system.  The estimated cost of
Murakati distributary along the original alignment worked out to Rs. 509
Million. However, the construction of the distributary could not be taken up
due to Bank objections regarding its alignment in very difficult terrain and
consequent increase in the cost. As advised by the Bank, further survey and
investigations were carried out for alternative alignment even with some
reduction in the command area with a view to minimizing the cost of the
distributary. According to this proposal, the Murakati distributary has been
planned to be taken in trough over the built up area of Uranium Complex and
Rakha mines. The rough estimated cost of this proposal works out to Rs. 320
Million only. The revised investigation report and detailed cost estimate is
under finalization and will be incorporated in the Phase-II of the Project.
Para 17: The flow of construction drawings of Chandil dam from CWC was
in keeping with the construction schedules of the dam components and the
construction works never suffered any set-back for want of drawings from the
CWC.5  As regards to quality control works also, it may be mentioned that
necessary tests were being carried out during the period under report (late
1989). The shortcomings were that in the case of quality control test for the
canal structures, proper records were not maintained at the respective sites.
These shortcomings were rectified and on the lines of suggestions of CWC,
checklists were circulated to the field officers for maintaining proper records
of quality control test results at the respective sites. As regards to 0 & M
studies, the procurement action was delayed because the terms of Reference for
these specialized studies were prepared a number of times in consultation with
World Bank and finally the same was substantially recast by the World Bank in
June, '88.  Subsequent'y, the procurement action for the aforesaid study was
finalized and work allotted in Sept. '88.
Para 20: As regards to Walmi, although the procurement infrastructures
for the Institute have not been completed, the Walmi has performed reasonably
well by conducting 14 nos of long term and 9 nos. of short term planning, design
and execution courses in MDS works and water management. Such courses, imparted
to the Engineers engaged in the execution of the Project, have been very
beneficial.6
4 This information has been incorporated in the revised Part I.
S An earlier comment about delays in delivery of drawings has been deleted
from the PCR, as the fact could not be re-checked.
6 Noted and incorporated in Part 1.



18
Para 24s It has been observed that if road development in the comand and
agricultural extension components could have been included under direct
financing of the Project, better results would have been achieved.  As per
prevalent guidelines for formulation of water resources Projects, these
components are not included in the Project Estimate. If, however, the World
Bank agrees to include the aforesaid components for disbursement in Phaee-Il
Repeater Scheme for this Project, proposed to be induced shortly for World Bank
Credit Assistant, the inclusion of the aforesaid components under the Project
estimate could be considered.
As regards to development of Extension Service in the command area,
although the senior level Extension officers have joined, there has been some
difficulty in posting adequate nos. of VLEWs. Steps have been titken recently
to recruit adequate nos  of VLEKs for the Project and when they join, the
position would substantially improve. As regards to the execution of MDS works,
it is fact that initially it lacked adequate tempo, because of poor responses
from the agencies in bidding for MDS works. The primary reason has been that
the MDS works are essentially of scattered nature, spread in far-flung area.
But now steps have been taken to induce the agencies and the construction of MDS
works has made a headway.   This has also been possible since the major
procurement works of the main canal systems have been now completed, so the
bidders have now to flock over the MDS works only.
Para 25: It is fact that partial irrigation potentials from the Project
could not be created by the year 1989 as earlier planned, but by the years 1990
to 1991, the extent of creation of potential would be substantial (10,000 ha by
June 1990 aud 25,000 ha by June 1991), from Chandil LBC will also be completed
substantially in stretch up to 88 Km.7 Creation of irrigation potential to
additional areas would have been possible by June, 1990, had the Kharkai Barrage
and head reach of Kharkai RBC been constructed earlier, as was planned by
Government of Bihar. The completion of Kharkai LBC along with Rharkai Barrage
would also have created adequate potential for meeting the ever growing demands
of M & I water supply of Industrial Development Authority, Adityapur.
Proiect Results:
Para 26: As regards to water management in the Palna Pilot Irrigation
command, it may be stated that paddy is traditionally the predominant crop being
cultivated by the farmers of this region. Double cropping is a rare scenario
for this region and the very fact that in the initial year, they have taken to
second crop, i.e. summer paddy should be considered as an instant achievement.
However, constant pursuasions is being done through agricultural extension
services and it is hoped, the farmers will soon adopt to more lucrative cropping
patterns, as envisages for the Project at large.   In switching over from
traditional to changed cropping patterns and improved agricultural practices,
there is normally some time lag and such inherent deficiencies would be
rectified soon.
7 The creation of 'irrigation potential' falls much short of the ability
to provide a reliable and equitable water supply, as it excludes construction
and commissioning of (micro) distribution systems. This argument is thus not
convincing.



19
Para 28s As regards to the estimate of increase in M & I water supply at
full deveiopment, it .s pointed out that the annual utilization will be 740 MC
and not 607 MCM as mentioned in Table 6A - Direct Benefits. This take into
account the existing utilization by Tisco through Dimna Lake, which resources
are now quickly depleting. While working out the EU for M & I water supply,
it is not known as to what water rate has been considered. It may be stated
that the issue of fization of water rate to be levied to the customer of M & I
water demand has still not been settled by Government of Bihar.8
Para 30s The Government of Bihar is committed to introduce the lucrative
cropping pattern envisaged for the Project by introducing a very effective
extension service in the command area. One year's cropping pattern actually
adopted in the Palna Pilot command she-ild not be considered as a forerunner for
the Project as a whole.
Bank Performance:
Para 31: During appraisal by the World Bank and subsequent preparation
of SAR. very detailed studies have been carried out first by the consultant
WAPCOS and then by the World Bank on various aspects concerning design and
planning of the project. The studies includet
i)    analysis of hydrological data and computations of yield and design
floods.
ii)   formulating of demand including study of crop water requirement,
effective rainfall and canal losses.
iii) cropping intensities, canal capacity and flexibility factor.
iv)   Integrated reservoir operation.
v)    Method of operation of canal and water distribution.
vi)   Design and planning of Minor Distribution System.
These studies had also been carried out previously by the project
engineers for clearance of the project by CWC. But the studies carried out by
the VAPCOS and the World Bank for appraisal of the project have been of much
significance and have helped in refining the previous studies and have also
helped in improving the technical understanding and capability of the project
engineers.
8 The statement is noted, although it is not clear why the Dimna lake
water resource is 'depleting".  At any rate, it was the incremental supply that
was estimated. The issue of payment by the users for new M&I water, and thus
of allocation of construction costs to this purpose and cost recovery, has indeed
been sorely neglected so far, including the SAR.



20
However,  there  have  been  certain  deficiencies,  lack  of  proper
understanding and conceptual mistakes, in the studies carried out by WAPCOS,
which formed the basis for the preparation of SAR by the World Bank. Some of
them are as follows:
i)    Calculation of ETo (Potential Evapo-transpiration) has been done for
each calendar month of each year 1954-78. Based on this, the demand
has been formulated for each calendar month for each year and the
same have been used in reservoir operation for appraisal of the
Project. But no study has been done for selection of ETo value for
planning based on frequency distribution study, likely range of
conditions and on assessment of tolerable risk of not meeting crop
water demands.
ii)   Study of Effective Rainfall, which has significant impact on total
demand, has not received due importance. The Rainfall effectivity
co-efficient have been calculated on the basis of water balance
study only for four years.
iii)  The results of detailed agro-soil survey have not been properly
utilized in the initial planning of cropping pattern and delivery
rate at turn-out, although the report of detailed agro-soil survey
of the entire command of Chandil Left Main Canal had been made
available by that time.
iv)   While determining the canal capac'ty flexibility factor (varying
from 1OX for main canal to 252 for minors) has been introduced, but
the design factor has not been considered although rotation water
supply below minors (channels of 50 cusecs capacity) has been
profuse.
v)    Due to conceptional mistake and lack of proper understanding by
WAPCOS in allocation of cost of various components, Kharkai Barrage
was judge to be the costliest component of the project.   And
consequently, it was not recommended by the World Bank for inclusion
in the first time slice for implementation. This has resulted in
the following serious complications:
(a) Water supply to Adityapur Industrial Complex, which is facing
acute scarcity at present, has been considerably delayed. The
alternative arrangement for supply from Chandil Right Canal
has also been kept in abeyance for the present.
(b)   Accrual of irrigation benefits to a predominantly tribal area,
in the command of Right Bank Canal Ex Kharkai Barrage has been
delayed considerable although a very big canal requiring wide
strip of land has already been completed in the area. This
may become a cause for public discontent leading to agitation.
Borrower Performances
Para 33: Steps are being taken to make up the deficiencies pointed out
in the areas of R & R, water management, roads, training and agriculture. These



21
issues have been discussed in the foregoing paras.
Consulting Services:
Para 37s   System Support Studies were carried out as per Terms of
Reference agreed with the World Bank.   Nevertheless,  the findings of the
consultants are being reviewed by the CWC and further investigations, if called
for, would be carried out.
As regards to indulgence of the consultant, CWC on the design aspects of
Icha dam, it may be noted that since the procurement action for this dam was
inordinately delayed, the CWC did not include the same under priority category.
Had the works of main dam started earlier, the CWC, during the course of
preparation of detailed construction drawings, would have called for carrying
out some of the left out geological investigations, which the Bank has
suggested. As regards to Icha dikes, the CWC have furnished timely all the
construction drawings needed for the execution of the works.



22
EVALUATION  OF  BANK'S  PERFORMANCE  DURING  THE  EVALUATION  AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT, WITH SPECIAL EMPHASIS O! LESSONS
LEARNT THAT HAY BE RELEVANT FOR THE FUTURE.
1.0   Project Appraisal:
1.1   The World Bank played a very positive role during the preparation of the
Feasibility Report of the project by initiating a number of group discussions
between the consultant WAPCOS, Bank and Project Officials.   During these
discussions, multidisciplinary experts were also associated. The discussions
were held at various levels so that the base level officers could also
participate and feel deeply associated with the job.   Their participation
enthused them to take keen initiative in different aspects of Project
formulation and implementation.
1.2   As indicated under 'Bank Performance - para 31' of the preceding section,
the additional studies carried out by the Bank were benefited implementation and
understanding of project.
1.3   With regard to the Kharkai Barrage and Kharkai Right Bank and Left Bank
Canals, their construction was agreed in principle by the World Bank even at the
time of executing the Credit Agreement and only the question of optimal time for
taking up the construction of the Barrage was left to be decided subsequently,
based on System Improvement Studies to be carried out by Consultants.1 The
World Bank had observed then that in the first phase of the Project, there would
be ample water available from Chandil and Icha dam and hence the construction
of Kharkai Barrage and head reach of the Kharkai Rightr Main Canal might be
deferred to a subsequent stage. The terms of reference for System Improvement
Investigations were prepared in consultation with the World Bank and the
aoresaid study was awarded to MIS Consulting Engineering Services, New Delhi.
the Consultants submitted their Final Report on the Studies in Oct., 1986.
1.4   The consultants have given their considered recommendations as under:
n It will be more beneficial to complete Kharkai Barrage by May, 1990 and
meet the requirements of Kharkai LBC and Kharkai RBC to the extent possible from
run-off of the river supplies rather than defer its completion to coincide with
that to Icha dam in 1993.'
1.5   The World Bank commented that the Studies carried out by the aforesaid
consultants were deficient and need to be revised with additional analysis to
1 The SAR did indeed not question the justification for Xharkai barrage at
some future date; it even stated that the barrge was necessary for Bihar to draw
its full share of Subernarekha waters. the timing for the construction of the
barrage was left to investigations to be carried out during project
implementation.   The Bank's view on the need for and justification of this
structure changed substantially later on. This departure from SAR assumptions
remains jusjtified, but led to a controversy between GOB and the Bank, which is
not resolved to date. (See GOB's comments under Section A of Part II).



23
make the same more meaningful in accordance with the requirements stated in the
Staff Appraisal Report and Terms of Reference.   It may be noted that the
aforesaid studies were carried out by the consultants in conformity of TOR,
earlier agreed by the World Bank.2 As regards the suggestion that studies
should conform to the requirements of the SAR, it may be observed that the
picture, as visualized in the SAR in respect to the construction scheduling of
Icha dam has substantially changed in the present context. As per SAR, the
construction of Icha dam was to commence from Oct, 84, but the events have
overtaken and this could be possible only from April, 89. The other factors
justifying the execution of Xharkai Barrage and canals promptly have been
indicated in detail vide department's comments on Para 13 of Part I of PCR
prepared by the World Bank.   Despite all the strong points, some of which
involve sensitive issues which could not be financially quantifiable, the World
Bank did not include Rharkai Barrage and head reach of Kharkai Barrage canals
in its first time slice Project.
2.0   Delay in executiou of certain Project Components:
2.1   The specification drawings of Icha main dam and spillway were received
from CWC by December, 86, based on PNF value tentatively decided by Chief
Engineer, Icha-Galudih Complex and the estimate was sanctioned. Notice for ICB
tenders was sent to the World Bank for publication in International Development
Form. But the tender for the main dam could not be floated, because the World
Bank put overriding conditions of updating of hydrological studies and also for
carrying out further geological investigations at the dam site. This resulted
in further delay in floating tenders for Icha dam.   This could have been
avoided, had the World Bank given clearance for floating pre-qualification bid,
while updating the studies of hydrology/geological investigation were
simultaneously in progress. It may be noted in this context that the tender
formats have sufficient flexibility to accommodate deviation of quantity, which
might have become necessary due to some changes in the design on the basis of
updated hydrology.  This delay caused considerable upset in the construction
schedule of Icha dam and the consequent delay in creation of partial irrigation
potential from Icha Right Bank Canal, which has been substantially completed.
The work of main Icha dam could be allotted in March, 89 only, which means that
any creation of potential could be possible only after Jun, 92. As per SAR
procurement schedule, the work of Icha dam was to be allotted as early as Oct.
84. In fact the delay in construction scheduling of Icha dam also defeated the
very idea mooted out by the World Bank, according to which water was to te
provided from Icha dam for irrigation in Kharkai RBC command (reach from KM 17
to 29.83) through Edal distributary of Icha RBC.
2.2   The construction of Murakati distributary could not be taken up due to
objection of Bank regarding its alignment traversing through very difficult
2 The study by CES was found deficient by the Bank mainly in that it failed
to present all pertinent data and to consider alternative options to provide
water to the industrial and mining facilities in the Jamshedpur area to
relatively small irrigation areas at the end of the proposed Kharkai right bank
system. The study focused only on optimal timing for Kharkai barrage. The Terms
of Reference, as approved by the Bank, were, in retrospect, indeed not adequate
as they did not request the investigation of alternatives.



24
terrain and consequent increase in cost. As advised by the Bank, further survey
and investigations were carried out for alternative alipgments even with some
reduction in the coammand area with a view to minimizing the cost of the
distributary. As per revised proposal, the cost of distributary come down to
Rs 320 million from the original estimated cost of Re 509 million, although
there was some reduction in the conuand area.  The Bank however, did not advise
to go ahead for procurement action on the revised option.
3.0   Bank's Supervision of Project Implementations:
3.1   The Bank's performance in the supervision of this project during the
various stages of implementation has been commendable. A happy note of the
implementation phase was the observation and considered views given by the
experts and consultants engaged by the World Bank on different aspects relating
to design and construction techniques for structures like tunnels, cut and cover
ducts, major canal structures, land and water management etc. This not only
enhanced the technical capability of the project organizations but also went a
long way in creating confidence in the project engineers, engaged in the
execution of these specific structures. However, it was felt that the visits
of the Bank experts /consultants could have been more frequent to cover different
stages of construction.
4.0   Technical Inputs for Basic Studies:
4*1  Very large technical inputs were provided by the Bank in finalizing the
terms of reference for the various basic studies required to be performed as per
stipulations of the Credit Agreement. Special mention may be made of the System
Operation and Maintenance Studies in which case the World Bank's experts devoted
considerable time in drafting the comprehensive terms of reference. for this
specialized Study, taking into consideration the three fol owing development
phases for the project.
a)   Initial phase, when irrigation and M & I demands would be partly
developed in Bihar.
b)   Second phase, when irrigation and M & I demands would be fully
developed in Bihar.
c)   Third phase, when the project components in Bihar, Orissa and West
Bengal are fully developed.
On practical considerations, it was decided that manual control would be
utilized as the medium term of the system operation, but with the facility to
convert to semi-automatic and automatic or remote control in the longer term.
4.2   As regards System Improvement Studies and Base line Socio-Economic Studies
for the project, the terms of reference were also vetoed by the World Bank. The
finalization of the terms of reference for the various Studies of the Project
in consultation with the World Bank helped the Project engineers in assimilating
a lot of ideas and information related to the Water Resources Development, which
were beneficial not only for this Project but also for other projects in the
State. Special mention may be made of the operation and maintenance studies,
which in the ultimate analysis would draw up detailed operating rules and



25
procedures for the project Head works and main conveyance system with a view to
ensuring reliable, predictable and equitable supply of water to all the farmers
in the command and efficient operation of the system to avoid wastage and
economize on management cost. The other important study viz System Improvement
Study of Subernarekha Project was completed quite some time back. Although the
results of the Studies are not fully acceptable to the Bank and they have
suggested some further changes in the scope of the studies, but the Bank has
admitted that if the studies be revised, it would be quite useful for the
planners for formulating phase-II of the Project for including the left out
components into the pipeline for World Bank credit assistance.3
4.3   The Bank also took initiative in employment of consultants on design of
complicated structures and various Studies, as were required to be carried out
in accordance with provisions of the Credit Agreement.   The results of the
Studies carried by the consultants were sent to the Bank for their review and
comments.    However,  it was  felt  that  in certain cases,  the Bank  laid
overemphasis on adopting recommendations of a particular consultant. A case in
point was the PMP Studies for Chandil and Icha dam carried out separately by a
Consultant and Central Water Commission, Government of India, acting as the
project  consultants.    The  technical  stature  of CWC, being  the premier
Institution in the field of water resources development not only in the country
but also reputed at international levels should not have been compared with a
part time consultant's technical capability.   Besides, CWC, being the apex
technical body of GOI for scrutinizing all the major water resources projects
of the country, are very much concerned about the technical competence and
adequacy of the design parameters of the dams including fixing of PMF, keeping
in foremost consideration the fool-proof safety of the dams.4   A case in
contrast could also be quoted, whick is in regard to System Improvement Studies
carried out by a consulting firm. Although the aforesaid firm did carry out the
studies in accordance with the terms of reference agreed by the World Bank, the
recommendations were not accepted by the Bank relating to Kharkai Barrage. The
Bank in this case insisted that the studies be repeated, showing more data and
analysis and also introduced additional scope of examining pumping option in
3 While GOB executed the system improvement studies called for in the SAR,
further system studies were strongly requested by the Bank in 1987, at the time
the Credit closing date was to be extended. These referred to the framing of
detailed, joint operation rules for all the basin facilities (in more detail that
provided for in the Tripartie Agreement), projection of likly demand for M&I
water in the basin to the year 2020 and identification of all possible sources
to meet such demand, and design and installation of a hydrometeorological
forecasting system (for flood and normal basin operations).   Only the last
mentioned item has been taken up so far.
4 The Bank's concern with the quality of and disagreement between earlier
flood studies was justified. The Bank's role was merely to raise this concern
with GOB and to move GOB to put the matter before the DRP. The DRP took the
final decision. Any judgement on the quality of consultants employed in the
process appears moot, given the decision by the DRP. It would, however, have
been appropriate to the Bank to scrutinize this aspect more closely during
appraisal. This would have avoided delays of Icha dam.



26
lieu of Rharkai Barrage in the aforesid study.5  This has resulted not only in
inordinate delay in execution of Rharkai Barrage, but also has embarrassed the
project authorities and GOB.  In fact, before the inception of the project into
World Bank time slice Credit Agreement, the component of Kharkai Barrage was
given first priority by GOB. But the position as it obtains now is that its
execution has been dragged behind by more than seven years.
4.4   The role of Dam Safety Review Panel,  constituted in accordance to
covenants of the Credit Agreement has been very effective in solving the various
technical problems encountered during the construction of Chandil dam, for Icha
dikes and on the aspects of additional investigations, carried out for Icha dam.
The aplomb and expertise with which the Panel handled the technical matters have
been commendable.
5.0   Road Develo2ment Plans
5.1   The Bank experts provided a considerable technical input in formulating
a comprehensive road development plan for the entire project area in Bihar. The
road component construction wing has been benefitted from the frequent
discussions with the World Bank experts on the planning and implementation
aspect of the plan.   This will be of great use during the phase-II of the
project.   However it would not be out of context to highlight one serious
shortcoming of the first time slice of the Credit Agreement on this score. The
Agreement did not provide for disbursement by the Bank on account of
expenditures incurred against works on road development plan. The result was
that it became very difficult for the GOB to mobilize funds separately for the
road development plan, as this was not included in the project estimate. Should
the second phase come into consideration for World Bank Credit Assistance, the
bank may consider this also within purview of disbursement so as to ensure time
bound implementation of the road development plan.
6.0   R & R Plan & Activities:
6.1   The R & R activities under the project, supported by an overall plan, were
for much of the project period, acceptable to the Bank.  However, the Bank
reported adversely in mid 1988 about the R & R performance in the project,
especially for oustees of Chandil reservoir area. After discussions with the
Bank Missions visiting the Project and in light of some additional policy
decision by GOB, a revised detailed implementation plan was submitted to the
Bank in March, 89 which was accepted as satisfactory for the first phase.
6.2   The main deficiencies pointed out by the Bank with regard to R & R plan,
which will be an essential prerequisite for phase-II project, pertain to grant
of more liberal benefits on the scores of economic rehabilitation of the
S The study by CES was found deficient by the Bank mainly in that it failed
to present all pertinent data and to consider alternative options to provide
water to the industrial and mining facilities in the Jamshedput area and to
relatively small irrigation areas at the end of the proposed Kharkai right bank
sys.em. The study focused only on optimal timing for kharkai barrage. Ther
Terms of Reference, as approved by the Bank, were, in retrospect, indeed not
adequate as they did not request the investigation of alternatives.



27
oustees, especially those who have been deprived of their minimum subsistence
level land holding. The additional norms for economic rehabilitation are under
serious considerarion of GOB. However, in this context, it is strongly felt
that the World Bank should consider the issue of disbursing the expenditure to
be incurred on economic rehabilitation, as it has become an integral part of
project implementatioan. If such a consideration is made by the Bank, the GOB
will gain a solid financial support to boost up the norms for economic
rehabilitation for phase-II of the project.6
7.0   Procurement Procedures:
7.1 Before commencement of the execution of the project as well as in the
implementation stage, the Bark deputed Missions and organized workshop on
procurement actions, which helped a lot in streamlining the procurement
procedure and in correctly understanding the implications of the various
provisions of the LCB/ICB documents, postulated by the World Bank. However
during the process of finalization of the various procurement cases, a number
of pertinent issues were encountered which need to be deliberated and suitable
changes effected for adoption in Phase-II, should the same materialize. Some
of the important issues are highlighted as under:
i)   After the execution of the Project made a headway, the contractors
working in the project developed in a coherent fashion, a growing tendency of
submitting bids generally much higher than the estimated cost of the works at
the prevalent schedule of rates.7 Since the LCB/ICB format of tender documents
do not stipulate any provision for negotiation from the first lowest bidder, the
project had to undergo heavy financial burdens. Cancellation of such tenders
did not also help the matter, since on retendering the position was to get
further aggravated. Competitive bids should normally not cause any concern for
taking resort to negotiation, but if the contractors as a class do not observe
the fair rules of competitive price bidding, it will only lead to undue
financial burden on the State Exchequer. It is therefore strongly felt that
negotiations with the bidders should be allowed in such cases, where the quoted
priced bids are substantially higher than the estimated cost of the works. The
limit for the high price bids could be judiciously fixed in due consideration
of operating contracts for similar works in the region.
ii)   As  per  provisions  of  LCB/ICB  documents,  conditional  bids,
especially involving financial implications, are to be rejected outright. This
also created difficult situations at times. There were instances when the first
6 The suggestion is valid and should be seriously considered in a possible
follow-up project. While the Bank does not normally fund land acquisition costs
of a project (which make up a large proportion of R&R costs), there may be other
R&R costs items that may be funded by the Bank to lend support to the
implementation of better RDR policies.
7     The fault for 'high bids' appears to be with the 'Schedule of Rates'
system of cost estimating, not with the procurement process. Schedules of Rates
are often out of date at the time of estimating.



28
lowest bidder incorporated certain conditions with their bids, which resulted
in the outright rejection of their bids.   Since there was no scope of
negotiations, the second lowest responsive bidder had to be considered for
award of work, even though his price bid might have been substantially higher
than the first lowest price bid.8
iii)   As regards to procurement procedures, those have been almost
uniform except for some changes, which were introduced subsequently due to
certain apprehension regarding malpractice of the contracting agencies.
However, certain changes like change in proportion of security deposit and in
the method of submission of guarantees against machine advance created
difficulties. For example, imposition of both hypothetication of machines and
at the same time its coverage by Bank Guarantee also made the machine advance
less useful, as a considerable amount was to be deposited by the agency to get
Bank Guarantee.  Such changes need further deliberations.  It was also felt
during the implementation of the project that some of the provisions of the
contract, like those concerning mobilization advance, bidding on joint
ventureship did not work quite to 'che benefit of the project. In certain cases,
it was observed that the contracting firms used a considerable part of the
secured advances in purchasing luxury cars and buildings and in diverting the
fund to other works.   The very purpose of mobilization advance against the
particular contract gets defeated. Similarly, the provision on joint venture
was abused.  In certain cases by some petty firms.  Such firms used to form
joint venture with reputed firms having enormous turnover and experience. It
was well known that the participation of major firms would be nominal in actual
practice and it would be only the petty firm that will be doing the work as the
lead firm. Still it was difficult to eliminate such bids from the competition,
as required proportions of capabilities of the lead firm were not defined in the
standard  format  of  the  tender  document.    These  issues  need  careful
deliberations, keeping in view that such provisions while giving legitimate
benefits to qualified bidders might not hit the Department through defaults by
the firms.
iv) On technical front at certain occasions, the project felt somewhat
embarrassed in accepting the suggestion of the World Bank, as the same were not
supported by reasons. For example in case of tender documents, for lining of
canal, even after repeated explanation from the Project Engineers that rates of
doing machine lining and manual lining would be much different, the World Bank
insisted that the option for doing the lining by machine or manually should be
left to the bidders. This did not provide a common datum for evaluation of the
8 The instructions to bidders spelled out the rules for bidding. The fact
that some bidders did not observe the rules does not diminish the justification
for such rules.   Besides,  it is possible to allow variations in bidding
conditions, if such conditions are clearly specified in the instructions to the
bidders. Such variations can then be taken into account at bid evaluation, but
not through negotiations with a bidder.



29
bids.9
8.0   Hmannsn of Supervision Missions
8.1   Quite frequently there were changes in the officials manning the Technical
Supervision Missions visiting the project.   This, at times, used to create
problems, especially when the view and suggestions of the various specialists
lacked anonymity in retrospect on certain issues. The element of continuity in
such matters could have been more conducive for the time-bound implementation
of time slice project.10 A case in point could be cited with regard to review
and updating of PHF for Chandil and Icha dam. This issue was raised quite late
in Jan, 86 with the result that procurement action of Icha dam was delayed
inordinately. Had this issue been raised earlier, the studies could have been
prepared and execution of Icha dam could have been commenced much earlier. Even
the execution of Chandil dam. which was in full swing, had to be slowed down
pending the decision on the revision of PMF value. Similarly in the case of
formats for progress reporting, physical and financial key indicators, there
vere confusions due to the number of chan-sg introduced by the supervision
missions as and when their manning changed. XFurther in the beginning, the
Bank explicitly indicated that the Status Reports for the project in the
prescribed format were required to be submitted to the Bank on half yearly
basis, one pertained to the period ending March and the other ending September.
However, later on practically every Supervision Mission used to insist on
preparation of such detailed Status Reports on the eve of their visits to the
Project.
9 The Bank's intention was to recommend that the technical specifications
be written so that completed works would have to comply with specific criteria
(performance specs), rather than prescribing a certain construction method by
which such specifications should be achieved. The common datum is the finished
product adhering to the stated specifications. Variations in time to completion
would be taken into account with usual accepted evaluation criteria.
10 The point is well taken, but continuity of Bank supervision staff over
prolonged periods of project implementation is not always possible. In this
case, a detailed assessment of the technical studies supporting the flood
hydrology may have been made at appraisal.   However,  there is always a
possibility that new information or the detection of errors and omissions in an
analysis leads to new assessments.
11 This point is also well taken. Format and content of progress report
should preferably be discussed in detail and agreed at appraisal.



30
EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE DURING THE EVALUATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION OP THE PROJECT, WITH SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON LESSONS
LEARNED THAT MAY BE RELEVANT FOR THE FUTURE.
1.0 The Organization has been very much responsive and diligent to the
requirements of the Credit Agreement during the procurement and execution stages
of the Project.  Right from the appraisal stage of the Project, the Project
Engineers actively participated in the deliberations held with the various World
Bank teams visiting the Project and placed their ideas on the various issues
related with the formulation of the Feasibility Report by the WAPCOS and SAR by
the World Bank.   The performance of the Project on the aspects of design,
construction standards, dam safety and quality control had been generally up to
the mark and prompt actions were taken to rectify certain perceived deficiencies
in some area. It would be relevant to mention some of the significant points
related to the Survey and Investigation, procurement and execution of the some
the important works of the Project.
2.0   Project Report & Estimate:
2.1   One of the inherent problems of major water resources development projects
is their long period of gestation and the Subernarekha could be no exception.
Though the Subernarekha Multi-purpose Project for an estimated cost of Rs 129
crores had been sent to CWC in 1974 for clearance, comments and counter-comments
were going on till 1980. The matter was taken up seriously and replies to all
pending comments along with a revised estimate of Rs 397 chores were sent to CWC
in October 1980. After that, the matter was followed up vigorously by personal
contacts in the various quarters. More comments were received which were again
replied after study and collection of data. Finally, after repeated visits of
the officers of the Project to CWC and discussions with the various directorates
of CWC (Hydrology, Earth dam design, Masonry dam design, Barrage and canal
design, Irrigation, Rates and cost, construction plant and machinery) and Water
Management Division, Finance and Budget Division and after getting several
meetings convened at the level of Member (P & P), the CWC ultimately finalized
the Project for an estimated cost of Rs 480.90 chores in October 1981.
2.2   Subsequently,  Planning  Commission  suggested  that  the  estimate  of
Subernarekha Multi-purpose Project be revised, based on agreement, cost of works
completed/under execution and for balance works the estimate should be framed
on prevalent schedule of rates. Accordingly, the Revised Estimate amounting to
Rs 983.20 crore was framed and sent to CWC in March 1988 for clearance. The CWC
after detailed examination of the aforesaid estimate was further recast in the
light of the comments of CWC and sent to CWC in August 1989. The estimate now
stands at 1270 chores. The increase from the earlier revised estimate has been
mainly due to increased provision of land acquisition and rehabilitation as also
due to increase in the cost of two main components of the project, viz Icha dam
and Kharkai barrage in which case the procurement actions were quite delayed.
3.0   Feasibility Report by WAPCOS.
3.1   Water and Power Consultancy Service (WAPCOS) is a consultancy organization
established as a Government of India undertaking. WAPCOS is recognized by the
World Bank as a reputed consultant. The task of preparation of a Feasibility



31
Report of Subernarekha Multipurpose Project was therefore entrusted to WVAPCOS
in late 1979.   Preparation of an Identification Report and subsequently a
Feasibility Report by WAPCOS was yet another enormous task. The Project had to
feed voluminous data and furnish numerous details, many of which had to be
collected and compiled from various quarters of the Governments of Orissa/West
Bengal and Government of India.
An Identification Report was brought out by WAPCOS in August 1980 and
presented to World Bank through Government of India. The Feasibility Report in
three volumes was finally submitted by WAPCOS in August 1981. Getting WAPCOS
to give shape to the Feasibility Report required a good lot of efforts and
studies on the part of the Project Officers and can definitely be classified as
the second significant achievement of the Project.
4.0   Appraisal of Project by World Bank & Execution of Credit A8reement:
4.1   The World Bank, in the first instance, was inducted to visit the Project
in 1978. Several teams kept on visiting the Project thereafter. The number of
visits of the World Bank teams comprising of two to seven members on different
occasions had been twelve in all. The visits used to be for a duration of three
to eight days. The formal pre-appraisal mission of thi' Bank, however came in
NovlDec 1981 about a couple of months after receipt of the Feasibility Report.
The World Bank teams used to consist of experts in different fields and careful
co-ordination had to be done with different departments for joint discussion.
It was yet another herculean task of the Project officers to satisfy the Bank
missions regarding the technical and economic soundness of the Project. The
Mission members used to go in minutest details and the Project Officers had to
be on their toes during the missions field visits and discussions. The formal
post-appraisal mission of the Bank came in the end of April 1982. Finally, the
Indian delegation was called to Washington on 30th June, 1982 and the draft
Agreement was finalized by 8th July, 1982 stipulating an IDA Credit of SDR
116.30 million equivalent to US $ 127 million during the first four year time-
slice from 1982-83 to 1985-86.   This was a significant mile-stone for the
project.  The IDA was also persuaded to agree to provide US $ 6 million for
reimbursement of expenditure between December, 1981 when the pre-appraisal
mission visited the Project) and the date of signing the Agreement.
5.0   Procurement Scheduless
5.1   The procurement  schedules,  showing the key events  for the various
important works included in the implementation programme of the Credit Agreement
were finalized by the World Bank in light of discussions held with the Project
Officers.    The  procurement  schedules  and  the  implementation  programme
(financial) for the time-slice project were incorporated in the SAR prepared by
the Bank.  As regards physical part of the implementation schedule for the
various works, only percentage projections were indicated. This proved to be
rather a tentative exercise, as later analysis indicated that the progressive
financial outlays on the works were not commensurate with the corresponding
percentage of rhysical completion of works, as were projected in the
SAR. It is felt that physical implementation schedule should also have been
drawn more comprehensively, quantifying the physical progress of important items



32
of works year-wise.12
5.2   The procurement schedules for the various works included in the time slice
were prepared in rather ambitious manner, expecting ideal conditions of
competitive responsible bidding for the works in the projects. But in actual
practice, there was considerable slippage in the schedules, especially in the
case of LCB tenders for canals. This was primarily because of the fact that for
contractors of this region, the special conditions and provisions incorporated
in the LCBIICB documents appeared to be somewhat new and they took quite some
time to adopt to the same. A case in point may be mentioned about the habit of
the tenderers of always assigning some conditions in their bids, which created
complications, delays and many times even rejection of the tenders.
Nevertheless, one important land mark of the procurement worth mentioning was
the finalization by Jan, 1983 of the ICB procurement case of Chandil dam costing
about Rs 400 million, which took less than six month's time in completing the
procurement case. In fact, there was very keen competition in the bidding and
the work was allotted at a price slightly lesser ttan the sanctioned estimate
of the work. The disposal of LCB procurement cases for the canal excavations
and structures also got expedited after the initial gestation period.
5.3   After completion of LCB procurement cases for canal excavations, it was
observed that the attendance of bidders in pre-bid conferences started thinning
out and in many cases no bidders used to turn up. This was rather discouraging.
In this context, it was felt that the prescribed tendering time for LCB tenders
could have been suitably reduced to gain more time for execution of work. This
pin-points review of the tendering periods, specially for LCB procurement cases
in future. Further in case of tenders, review of the tender documents by the
Bank may not be considered necessary, as it will entail to some saving of
precious time for execution of works.13 Incidentally, it may also be pointed
out that in later stages of procurement cases, the Bank took a stand that the
procurement cases should be sent to Bank through postage and not by deputing
concerned officials to the Bank.  This also resulted in consuming much time
through correspondences. The practice of visiting of officer in the Bank was
quite useful fo: expeditious disposal of the cases, as the officers used to
readily furnish the incidental clarifications arising during the course of
scrutiny of the tender papers by the Bank.14
12 Fully agreed. The preparation of detailed schedules, in the framework
of a management information system using the PERT or CPH methods, should be
considered an obligatory part of project preparation, particularly, but not only
for a project of such complexity.   It is understood that GOB has hired a
consultant firm to devise c omputerized scheduling and monitoring system for use
during the remainder of project implementation.
13 In as far as agreed standard bidding documents are used, Bank review
is usually prompt and not a significant factor of delay.
14 This rule was intended to reduce visitor traffic in the World Bank New
Delhi Office, which became too heavy considering the large number of Bank
projects and procurement actions to be handled by NDO's procurement staff.



33
6.0  Canalss
It is felt that for projects in the future, while preparing the
investigation reports of main canals, detailed design of major water conductor
system should also be incorporated, based on detailed engineering and geolog'cal
investigations for the sites for identifying feasible and economical options.
Similarl>, for canals traversing difficult terrain involving deep cuttings and
high embankments, soil classification surveys through sizeable number of
drillings along the alignment for cutting reaches and extensive borrow area
survey for filling zones should be got completed and incorporated in the
Investigation Reports/Estimates of the canals to avoid major problems during the
execution stage.
7.0   Quality Control:
7.1   The quality control Manual prepared for the project was appreciated by the
Bank during the Appraisal stage. Extensive quality control tests in conformity
with the provisions of the aforesaid Manual were carried out for
concreting/masonry works/eartbwork in embankment and on quality of construction
materials to be used for works in respect of Chandil dam, Galudih barrage,
earthwork in canal construction and canal structures.   Certain perceived
deficiencies, as pointed out from time to time by the Bank Mission were promptly
attended to and measures taken to rectify the deficiencies. In certain areas
of construction of Chandil concrete dam, non-destructive tests were also carried
out be employing teams of the Central soil and Material Research Station of CWC,
New Delhi, who sent specialized equipment for the purpose. At the insistence
of World Bank, a check list was also prepared in standardized proforma and kept
at the major canal structure sites for inspection by the inspecting officers.
8.0   Land Acquisitions:
8.1   The pace of land acquisition was somewhat slow during the first two years
of the time slice mainly because of inadequate strength of the Project Land
Acquisition Wing. Subsequently, with the positioning of 4 to 6 Special Land
Acquisition Officers in the Project, the progress of land acquisition was
considerably accelerated. Nevertheless, it is felt that for such a project,
Land Acquisition should be given top priority right from the inception of pre-
construction activities in the Project.
9.0 Environmental Clearance and Transfer of Forest Lands
9.1   The compilation and collation of all the related data of the Project
required for environmental clearance were completed expeditiously by the project
and the same were sent to the Department of Environment, GOI in standard
prescribed  proforma.    Thereafter,  field  inspections  were  done  by  the
Environmental teams in which Project Officials and State Forest Department
Officials participated. Eventually, the clearance of the Project was accorded
from environmental angle in June, 1985 subject to certain safeguards.
Previously, the Ministry of Forest had indicated that the proposal for transfer
of forest land of 2875 hectares for the Project will be accepted after the
clearance of the project from environmental angle is obtained. But even after
environmental clearance of the project, the transfer of required forest land has



34
been effected till now by the Ministry of Forest and Environment, though the
matter has been vigorously pursued by the project and GOB at all levels. After
furnishing cost-benefit analyses and other additional information required from
time to time, the Forest Department has now taken a stand that the lands
proposed on the banks of canals/distributaries for compensatory forestation are
not acceptable to them, as they will not have full ownership over the same.
Search has now been completed to make available balance land needed for
compensatory forestation and it is hoped that in the near future, the matter
will be settled with Ministry of Forest.
9.2   Non-transfer of forest land for long created considerable bottlenecks in
the progress of works and the forest departmental officials have created legal
embarrassment in certain places, where initially some works were executed in
forest land in good faith in anticipation of formal handing over of the forest
land.  It will be advisable that in future, no works in Projects should be
started before completing the formal handing over of forest lands needed for the
execution of the Project.
10.0  R & R Plan & Action Plan:
10.1 The R & R activities under the Project, supported by an overall plan, were
for much of the project period, acceptable to the Bank. However, with regard
to the Action Plan for Economic Rehabilitation of the oustees of Chandil
reservoir Phase-I, the project could not make the desired stride.   This is
mainly because of the fact that the concept of economic rehabilitation is rather
new to the State and the GOB has to deliberate in depth for involving policy
decisions on the various norms that could be adopted for this Project. These
norms would be sorted out shortly by GOB in consultation with the World Bank and
it is resolved to assign the execution of the acceptable R & R Plan top priority
during the Phase-II implementation of the Project.
10.2 It is also felt in this cuntext, that in order to handle the R & R Plan
on such a gigantic scale as that of this project, a full fledged Rehabilitation
and Land Acquisition Directorate with complimentary strength of officers and
staff should be positioned with the project. Such a wing would be in a position
to produce the desired thrust to ensure time bound implementation of the R & R
Plan of the Project.
11.0 Creation of Irrigation Potential from the Proiect:
11.1 Originally, it was envisaged to create annual irrigation potential of
20,000 hectares by June, 1988, which would have progressively increased year to
year. Because of slippage in the first two years of time slice, mainly due to
non-availability of land and inadequate project organization, the various works
of the project could not progress as per schedule. A revised implementation was
prepared in December, 1985 which was agreed with the Bank as progress of works
were accelerated. Because of certain inherent deficiencies in the execution of
the R & R program for the first phase submergence of Chandil reservoir, the
Chandil dam could not be raised up to its crest level till now. In addition,
there are some major structures of Chandil LBC in its head reach, e.g. Railway
crossing at Km. 7.23 and tunnels and cut and cover ducts at Km. 16.35, Km.
25.30, Km. 37.64 and Km. 39,86, which could not be completed as per plan. The
result was that no irrigation potential could be created even by June, 1989.



35
However, the works program for the year 1989-90 has been suitably re-oriented
and concerted efforts are being undertaken to complete the works lying in the
critical path of implementation, so as to create an irrigation potential of
about 10,000 hectares by June, 1990. Since the Chandil LBC will be completed
up to Km. 88 by end of June, 1991. The creation of annual irrigation potential
will substantially increase by June 1991. The total annual irrigation potential
from the project would be about 25,000 hectares by June, 1991. This includes
irrigation from Galudih RBC and Saraikella distributary Ex-Icha left main canal.
11.2 The other serious constraint in creation of irrigation potential was due
to unavoidable curtailment of about Rs. 180 million in the budget allotment of
the project during the last quarter of the financial year 1988-89.   This
seriously impeded the construction tempo of the project, not only during 1988-
89, but also had a lingering impact in the first quarter of the current
financial year. The various executing agencies, because of non-payment against
works executed by them had slowed down the pace of construction and there was
quite some time lag in restoring to the desired level of mobilization on their
part.15
12.0 Project Monitoring:
12.1 Management and Reporting on project implementation through the various
stages have been considered to be quite up to the mark, as also observed by the
World Bank. But the follow-up actions to make up the deficiencies should have
been more expeditiously disposed by the field officers of the project.  For
Phase-II of the project, the tasks of management, reporting and follow-up
actions are proposed to be vastly improved through services of computers.
13.0 ProJect Organization:
13.1 Selection of departmental personnel for the project Engineering
Organization was also, of late, not left with the project Administration with
the result that services of more capable and dedicated officers could not be
utilized for the project.   Besides, there have been frequent transfers of
experienced officers of the project, who had developed in depth knowledge of the
intricate construction problems of the major structures. Routine transfers of
senior officers engaged on design and execution of major structures are not
conducive for the smooth implementation of the project.
13.2 The jurisdiction of some of the Divisions, specially those engaged in
canal works should have been more compact and work load tailored according to
15 The creation of 'irrigation potential" was not the objective, as mere
creation of 'potential, (creation of storage and major conveyance facilities)
does not generate benefits.   The SAR called for construction of irrigation
blocks, including minor canals and water courses down to the 5-8 ha level, and
drainage works, in an area of 21,000 ha, "at various stages of completion". The
design and construction of the micro distribution and drainage system itself is
severely delayed; only about 200 ha were actually implemented on completion. The
creation of further *potential", as indicated, will not by itself correct this
imbalance in implementation.



36
standard norms.    This measure would not  only have  resulted  in  speedy
construction, but also more thorough supervision of works at all levels.
14.0 Disbursement of Credit Amount by the Banks
14.1 The total expenditure incurred on the Project up to April 30, 1989 i.e.
the closing date of credit Agreement is Rs 4025.50 million. Out of this, the
amount spent on non-reimbursable component comprising land acquisition and
establishment were Rs. 675.50 million and Rs 297.50 million respectively.
There was progressive appreciation in the value of SDR vis-a-vis Rupee value.
The present going rate is about Rs 20.00 per SDR against about Rs 9.00 per SDR
when the credit Agreement was executed in November 1982. The World Bank has
disbursed the full credit amount of SDR 116.30 million out of reimbursement
claims submitted against expenditure incurred up to April 1989.
15.0 DatalInformation for Preparation of PCR Part-IIl by Bank:
15.1 The financial and physical key indicators of the Project implementation,
as also other relevant datalinformation required for preparation of various
tables, in part III prepared by the Bank were furnished by the Project during
the course of visit of Task team of the Bank for preparation of Project
Completion Report.



37
ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BANK AND
BORROWER DURING THE EVOLUTION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT.
Right from the stage of appraisal of the project to the implementation of
the time slice project, a very cordial relationship was maintained between the
Bank, project officials and GOB. The various Bank Missions visiting the project
had frank and in-depth discussions on the related issues, which were well taken
by the project officials and full co-operation was given in meeting to Bank's
viewpoints.   The project officials,  also on their part,  received utmost
cooperation from the Bank side while ventilating their viewpoints on various
issues, arising from time to time. On the various technical issues, there was
throughout the fullest coordination. There was, however, one single occasion
arising when deficiencies were pointed out by the Bank in executing of the R &
R program for Chandil dam, which virtually led to temporary suspension of the
Credit disbursement. But his was taken in construction stride and in good faith
by the GOB, appreciating fully the stand of the Bank taken in anguish over
perceived lack of satisfactory input in the execution of the R & R plan. The
embarrassing situation, however, was diffused by ensuring prompt action by the
GOB to rectify the deficiencies.
In essence, the project implementation has been marked by a most cordial
relationship between the Bank and GOB.



38
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMAITION



INDIA
SUBERNARERHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1289-IN)
Table 1
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit title         Purpose            Year of            Status                           Comments
1.  Credit 440-IN:     To increase              1973      Project closed on 3131180             Typical investments
Bihar Agricultural     agricultural                       following 27 month extension          were financially and
Credit Project (US$   production through                                                        economically viable,
32.0 M)                loans for interior                                                       but loan recovery
(see PCRIPPAR          irrigation                                                               performance of the
no. 3704)              investments                                                              Land Development Bank
was poor.
2.  Credit 761-INs     To provide a sound       1977      Project closed on 3/21/85             The results of the
Bihar Agricultural     foundation for the                 following two year extension.         project were
Extension and          long term development                                                    disappointing, with
Research Project       of extension services                                                    targets only
(US$ 8.0 M)            and adaptive research                                                   partially met.  Some
in Bihar State.                                                         US$ 3.8 M of the
Credit were
cancelled.
oQ.



3. Credit 855-IN       To strengthen zonal      1978      Project closed on 3131/86 after a   The project was
National               agricultural research              three year extension.                 mainly concerned with
Agricultural           in India through the                                                     establishing
Research Project I     state agricultural                                                       infrastructure, and
(USS 27.0 M)           universities,  and to                                                    the output was
assist ICAR in                                                          disappointing.  Only
training and                                                            US$ 19.5 M of the
monitoring.                                                             credit was utilized.
4.  Credit 1631 IN:   To strengthen the         1986      The credit is expected to close in  The project is making
National               state agricultural                 12194 after a two year extension.   slow progress with
Agricultural           universities to                                                          staffing, monitoring
Research Project II   conduct location                                                          and disbursement
(US$ 72.0 M)           specific agricultural                                                   problems.
research, and the
continued assistance
to ICAR project
management.
5.  Credit 1754 IN:   To introduce the T&V    1987        The project became effective in       A Bihar sub-project
National               system and to                      1188, and is expected to close in   was appraised and
Agricultural           strengthen                         3194.                                 approved for
Extension Project      institutions with                                                        inclusion in April
III (US4 85.0 M)       provision of                                                             1989.  This will
accommodation and                                                       continue to support
equipment.                                                              the Subernarekha
Irrigation Project.
0
I1 )



41                             Table 2
SUBE RNAR1 EMA IRRIGATION PROJ=C 
{(Cit 1289-lN
Prolect Timetable
etem               DatePlanned        Date Revisdl /     DateActual
- IdentifIcation (EPS)
- Preparation                                                   9178-1l81
- Appmisa ssion                                                 12181
- Credit Negodations                                            7/82
- BoardApprv                                                    8117/82
- Credit Signing                                                1IJ/182
- Credit Effecdveness                                           1/10/83
- Credit Completion     3V31/86             3131/88             4/30/89
- Credit Closing         3/31/87            3131/88             4/30/89
Note
A/ At mid-term review 1/86



42                          T-BLs 3
____}U___   IUIGATION PROJBCT
(Credit 1289-IN)
Schedule of Disbursement
IDA FY and                     Cumulative Disbursements                  X Actual to
Quarter             Appraisal           Revised          Actual          SAR/Revised
Projection        Projection                        Projection
-------------------- SDR M-----------------             tS)
1983  1st
2nd                   -                                   _              _
3rd                  4.6                                3.5              76
4th                  8.2                                3.5              42
1984  1st                 11.9                                 5.2              42
2nd                 16.5                                 5.2             39
3rd                 21.1                                6.0              29
4th                 25.6                                8.6              34
1985  1st                 31.1                                10.2              33
2nd                 36.6                               11.1              32
3rd                 44.0                               14.2              31
4th                 51.3                               15.7              33
1986  1st                 60.4                                20.1              33
2nd                 69.6                               23.4              34
3rd                 78.8                               30.1              38
4th                 87.9                               33.6              38
1987  1st                 96.2                                40.6              42
2nd               104.4               52.2             40.6              42
3rd                116.3              61.4             48.4              79
4th                                    73.3            57.1              78
1988  1st                                    83.3             69.9              84
2nd                                    95.2            75.5              79
3rd 1/                                82.4             80.4              98
4th                                   88.8             92.0             104
1989  1st                                    96.2            105.6             110
2nd                                  102.6            109.8             107
3rd                                  109.0            109.8             101
4th                                  116.3
1990  1st 2/                                116.3            116.3             100
Notes:
1/ From this date assumes Credit will be extended to March 31, 1989.
2/ Credit fully disbursed on August 18, 1989.



INDIA
SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1289-IN)
Project Implementation4'
Appraisal          Revised              Final               Actual
Indicator         Unit           esdtmate           estimate            estimate           achievement
(1/86)              (12188)              (4/89)
(Oty)  (%)1/   IQty)  (%)1l   ~~(Qtyl    (%)1     (Ot)        )/
1. CHANDIL COMPLEX
a) Chandil Dam       unit           1      50          1       62          1      65            1      64
- earthwork       Th.cu.m      1090               1812                2012                 1975
- masonry/concrete   Th.cu.m    220                270                 400                  437
- gates            No.            6                  6                   6                   nil
b) Left Main Canal   km         78.54      30       88.40      45       88.40      68        88.40     58
- earthwork        Th.cu.m    9400                11,700             17,500               14,575
- lining          Th.sq.m.    600                   295                 315                  nil
- structures       No.          60                   20                 80                   35
- Kitanaladam      unit                  50                 100                  95                  93
c) Distribution System
- earthwork        km           10                    5                  10                   6
- lining           km           10                    5                   5                  nil
- stuctures        No.          30                   14                  14                  nil
d) MDS               ha       14,8752V               68002/              68002/               2002/             , ..



Appraisal          Revised              Final               Acal
Indicator        Unit           estimate           esdmate             estimate             achievement
(1186)             (12/88)              (4/89).
2. 1(CHA  OPE
a)IchaDam           unit           1      20          1       25        1        30            1      25
- earthwork       Th.cu.m     1380                1440             2000                   1640
- masonry/concrete   Th.cu.rn   40                  35               40                     nil
- gates           No.           nil                nil               nil                    nil
b) Right Main Canal    km        19.2     20         19.2     48      19.2       54          19.2     48
- earthwork       Th.cu.m      2200               3725              4060                  3631
- lining          Th.sq.m.      200                240               110                    nil
structures       No.            20                 34                60                    57
c)LeftMainCanal     km             17      20         17      15        17       38           17      26
- eathwork        Th.cu.m      1089                600              2250                  1844
- lining          Th.sq.m.       30                 30                65                     nil
-structures       No.             5                  5                 S                    nil
d) Distribution System
(RMC)
-earthwork        kn            25                  55               110                     15
-lning            kn            25                  35                10                     nil
-structures       No.           125                 75                10                     nil
e) Distribution System
- eathwork        kan            8                   2                 5                      3
-lning            Ian            8                  nil               nil                    nilQ 0
- stuctures       No.           20                   5                 5                     i
f) MDS (LMC)        ha          28442/              16002/             2282/                   il



Appraisal          Revised              Final              Actual
Indicator        unit            estimate          estimate            estimate           achievement
(1/86)             (12/88)              (4/89)
3. GLUDIH COMPLEX
a) Barrage          unit           1      36          1       72         1        90           1      86
- earthwork       Th.cu.m      310                410                770                   825
- masonry/concrete   Th.cu.m    50                 116               159                   159
- gates           No.            2                  5                  8                    nil
b) Right Main Canal    kn         60      22          60      50        60        70         60       62
- earthwork       Th.cu.m     2300                5690              9100                 8770
-lining           Th.sq.m.      300                630               630                    nil
-stucs            No.            10                 20                30                    32
c) Distribution Systm
- earthwork       km            nil                 nil               nil                  nil
- lining          Ian           nil                 nil               nil                  ni
- stuctus         No.           nil                 nil               nil                  nil
d)MDS               ha           nil                 6502/             6502                  nil
4.KHARKAICOME
a) Right Main Canal   kan         29        0         29       35       29       48          29        40
- earthwork       Th.cu.m       nil                750              1600                 1004
- lining          Th.sq.m.      nil                 30                30                   nil
- stnictures      No.           nil                  5                10                   nil
b) Distribution System                                                                                        * I 
- earthwork       kan            2                  17                17                    15               i
- lining          kn             0                  12                12                   nil               o 
- structures      No.            10                 35                35                    4
c) MDS              ha           32812'              3502/             3502/                 nil



Appraisal           Revised              Final                Acnual
Indicator         Unit            esdmate             estimate            estimate             achievement
(1/86)              (12/88)               (4/89)
5. MMON
WOKS
a) Buildings         No.          1600                2760                2500                  2045
b) Roads
- new consmuction    km           24                  24                  24                    21
- improve existng  kn             76                  76                  50                     10
roads
c) Pilot pigadon Areas
- Bihar area       ha            250                 250                 250                    250
- Orssaarea        ha            250                 250                 250                    180
6. COMM ONEI rE
SUPPORTING
,SERVICES
a) Agdculture
^-JrrigationResearch  unit         1      100          1       100          1        50            1     15
Centre, Ghatsila
-Extension Services                31                 3/                   3/                     3/
strengthening
1.    Perentages refer to a    quantity estimte eg. Chandil left main canal-target at appraisal 23.56 kml target at revised
esdmate 1/86 35.34 kn.



2.    MDS (Micro Distribution System) target at appraisal was 21,000 ha at "partial development " (in various stages of construction).
Revised entries on basis of completed installations ie. creation of potential subject to delivery of water.
3.    It is stated in SAR # 6.12 that Agriculture Deparment (AD) is responsible for reorganising the extension services in the project
area to the T&V system. In # 6.32 the vehicle to support this is stated to be the Bihar Extension Project Credit 761-IN. No
funds have been allocated to the agricultural extension component under the project.
4.    Time lice project target.
5.    Abbreviations ni - not included.
I lb
tD er
in{
U'



SUBERNAREKHA IRR16ATION PROJECT
ICredit 1289-IN)
Project Costs 4i
Appraisal Estimate           Revised Estimate 1/06             Final Estimate 4189                     Atual 4189
Iteo                           Local      FE       Total                 Total                           TOTAL                    Local       FE        Total
(uss hI Li                     (US$ 11 2'                       1us$ f  31                          1US$ hl 3.
1. Cbandil Comules
- Chandil das                 30.1       6.6        36.7              28.7                              34.0                     -         -           33.2
- Chandil lett                20.4        5.3       25.7              32.7                              39.7                     -         -           4J.S
main canal
- distribution              )                                          0.2                               i.2                     -         -            0.3 
system                       1.9       0.3        2.1
- "DS                       I                                           7.3                              7.6                      -        -             3.3
Sub-Total                 52,3      12.2     64.5                 68.6                              52.5                     -          -          84.1
2. lcha CODmIex
- Icha dam                    11.2        3.7      14.8               11.2                              16.4                     -          -            4.8
- right main                )                                          11.9                             14.2                     -          -           8.9
canal                     1  8.5        1.8      10.4
- left main                 I                                           1.8                              4,0                     -          -           2.2
canal
- distribution              I                                           2.0                              5.6                      -    -                 3.,                 D
system Ileft              I                                                                                                                                              '-o
and right                 I                                                                                                                                              -+
commands)                 I
I 0.3        0.0       0.3
- "DS lleft                 1                                          2.4                               4.3                     -          -           0.4
and right                 I
commands
Sub-Total                 20.0       5.5      25.5                29.3                              44.5                     -          -          19.5



Appraisal Estimate           Revised Estimate 1186             Final Estimate 4/89                     Actual 4/89
It".                           Lotal      FE       Total                Total                            TOTAL                    Local       FE       Total
(USS M) L/                     IUSS N) O                        (mU    ) 3f                        (US(   N) n
3. MaludiM Complex
- barrage                      6.0        1.4       7.4               11.4                              13.6                     -         -          6.7
- right main                  11.2       2.8       13.9               21.2                              26.7                     -                   19.3
canal
- distribution                 ni        ni         ni                 nii
syste.
- WDS                          ni        ni         ni                 ni                                2.0                     -        -           0.2
Sub-Total                 17.2       4.2      21.4                33.3                             42.3                     -         -          28.2
4. Kharkai Comolex
- right gain                   ni        ni         ni                 2.4                               4.1                     -        -           2.9                     UD
canal
- distribution                 3.0       0.9        3.9                2.7                               2.9                     -        -           1.8
system
- "DS                          0.8       0.1        0.9                0.3                               0.3                     -        -           nil
Sub-Total                  3.0       1.0       4.8                 5.4                              7.3                     -         -           4.7
5. Common Project Norks
- buildings                    Ds        ns         ns                10.2                               9.6                     -         -         11.7
- rural roads                  ns        Os         us  /              ni                                ni                      -        -           1.0 bl
Sub-Total                  0         0         0                  10.2                              9.6                     -         -          12.7
0
6. Establishment                 16.4        0        16.4               20.5                              20.6                     -         -          18.h
7. Studies,                       0.2        0.1       0.3                0.3                               0.2                     -         -           0.1
Nonitoring



Appraisal Estimate          Revised Estimate 1186            Final Estimate 4/89                     Actual 41/9
Item                          Local      FE       Total                Total                           TOTAL                    Local      FE        Total
(US$ "I it                    (US$ N)  /                       (US$ O) 1/                         (US$ N) 3/
B. kricultural SUDDort
- research                     0.2       0          0.2               0.1                              0.1                     -        -            0.1
- extension _I                 n         ni i       nI                ni                               ni                      -        -            ni
Sub-Total                 0.2       0           0.2               0.1                              0.1                    -                      0.1
9. Pilot Irrigation               0.4       0.1        0.S               0.3                              0.3                     -         -           0.1
areas
10.VAL1I, training                1.4       0.3        1.7               1.0                              1.0                     -        -            0.5
ll.Pollution control              0.1       0          0.1               0.4                              0.3                     -        -            0.1
12.Equipnent                      ns        ns         ns                3.5                              2.7                     -        -            3.5
13.Land acquisition               ns        ns         ns                                               I
148.9                            135.3                    -         -          51.1
14.MM9                            ni        ni         ni              1                                1
15. niscellaneogs                 Ai        ni         ni               13.3                             10.7                     -        -           32.3
Total Base Cost                 12.0      23.4       135.4            234.9                            257.4                     -        -          255.0
Physical                        12.1       2.8       14.9               nii                                                                            ni
contingencies                                                                                                                                                           IV  H
Price                            5.2      31.6       16.5               ni                               ni                                            ni
contingencies                                                                                                                                                            0  L
and escallation
Total Project                  1'0.5      31.4      181.9             235.1                            257.4                     -        -          255.B
Cost (1S1 N)
Total ProJect                 1353.7    203.6    1637.3              2845.0                           4067.3                                        4041.2
Cost lb N)



Abbreviations
as - not specified
ni - not Included
LI exchange rate U1S 1.00   Rs.  9.o
ji exchange rate US$ 1.00   Rs. 12.1
I/ etchange rate U5 1.00 : as. 15.0
4I  for tice slice project
It Ro cost allocation was made in the SAN cost summary table on page 34. However,
in Annex 8, StW table 1, a cost breakdown is given as follows:
- civil works    Rs. 41.5 R  - engineering and administration Rs. 10.4f
- equipmnt       h. 12.0 N
- buildings      Rs.  4.7 H                             Total   Rs. 6b.6n
it Financied under Tribal Sub-plan
7j Financied under 100 Credit 761-lI
*. .
O tn ,
F0 



52                          Table 6
DIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1289-IN)
Project Financing
Source                                      Planned in Credit
Agreement          Final at 8118/89
(US$ '000) 11     (SDRS '000) 21
1.                                          IDA Expenditure Categories
(1) Civil Works
(a)  Chandil dam and left canal      55,474                 70,671
(b)  Galudih barrage and canals      20,966                 20,252
(c)  Icha dam and canals             22,495                 16,238
(d)  Kharkai canals                   4,040                  3,452
ge)  Minor distribution systems       4,040                  2,350
(2)  Equipment, material and              10,046                  1,363
vehicles
(3)  Pilot areas, research, studies          984                     424
monitoring and evaluation
(4)  Training, including infra-            1,966                  1,550
structural facilities
(5)  Unallocated                           6,989
Total                          127,000                116,300
2.    Cofinancing Institutions                      nil                    nil
3.    Other External Sources                        nil                    nil
4.    Domestic (GOBIGOO)                         54,900                     31
Total (US$ '000)                         181,900             246,400 4/
Total (Rs M)                                1,637                 4041.2
Notes.
1/ US$ 1.00-Ru. 9.0; US$ 1.0 - SDR 0.916
2/  US$ 1.00-Rs.16.4;  US$ 1.0 - SDR 0.78 at July 1, 1989.
31 SDR equivalent of GOBIGOO contribution not available.
4/ Not true indicator of apportioning of cost, as credit proceeds disbursed
at differing values of SDR and USS to the rupee.



53                        Table 7
INDIA
SUBERIIAREIK IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1289-IN)
Direct Benefits
Appraisal 11   Closing date      Estimate at
Indicator                      estimate       estimate      full development
1. Directly benefitting               130,000             0             232,000
farm families (No)
2. Increased irrigated area           255,000             0             255,055
(ha)
3. Increased foodgrain                    700             0                 700
production ('OOOtlyear)
4. Increased M&I water                    700             0                 740
supply (MCM/year)
5. Moderation to flood                   18.5            21.2 2/           21.2
damage (Rs M/year)
6. Generated farm employment          138,000             0             190,000
(jobs)
7. Generated non-farm                  24,800          27,715 3/         39,300
employment (jobs)
8. Value added in agriculture           1,485             0               2,254
(Rs M/year)
9. Reduction in farm families              53              42 4/             58
below poverty line (X)
Notes:
1/ Pertains to entire scheme when complete in Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal
2! On completion of Chandil dam scheduled for 1990.
3/ Pertains to project construction employment only.
4/ Due to project construction works only.



54                         Table a
INDIA
SUBERNAREKRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1289-IN)
Economic Imiact
Economic Rate of Return
Assumption                     Appraisal        Revised 1/       Current 2/
estimate         estimate        estimate
(1186)          (5189)
_____________________ (2) ---------------------
1. Overall composite project           17.3             10.1             7.2
2. Chandil system                      16.7               9.1            7.4
3. Icha system                         18.1              10.3            7.1
4. Irrigation 31                       18.0                -             8.3
5. Flood moderation                    12.7                              1.3
6. M&I water supply 4|                 18.2                -             4.0
7. Bihar composite project             17.8             10.6             8.6
8. Orissa composite project            16.3              9.0             4.6
Notes:
1/ By FAOICP mid term review mission; includes Kharkai barrage and Murakati:
distributary.
2/ World Bank estimates. All cost included.
3/ On the basis of per hectare crop budget furnished by project in combination with
Agriculture Department and Extension Offices.
4/ Water rates needs not known.



Ikm
ZZEKHRNORHMIRRIIATON POB
(Crt 1289-IN
SAsn
Pwpose as ddRd               By whom             Refaence
liiof Study                   ataa l                     cariedout           inSAR           status                  Impac of Study
A.B
1. Pilot             Toigaxo Toexambie,m d_ and evalte  GOB Irigation and     0 4.02   Two existing tank in the    As designed, and operaed the
sludies            #"emsofmicro.                    Are                     4.13    command atea  been    study is misleading and it sbuld
distuton layouts.                                                 developedfr MCS (Plna  benrectifed.
and Lgap). The layoutat
Palna only has ben
installed. This is incoiect,
and opaton isbsch thatb
only head-end famners
receive wat.
2. Systm             Todetmdnete  tmlocan,    Consultants Mer               #4.18      Completed in 1985, but not Corectly done, study will enable
im_WOVMO          dsnand timing srconfor:   CBS Ltd under                           accepabl to the Bank     the planesfrsagel todecd
stid              i)5&iwbg                          dhSeclin of lIigation           owing to i edsam          w tedie                 are
b)               cawndlDepwimecnalt                               and analsssen            viable. n  fowbOtmn and
c)O                                                               prOvidJ.ank has insised design most appropri
that itberpaed and
impovd Thisis6saidtobe
in pogress but evidenceDL
3. Rural oads study    To (ti)  e   a roads plan in the  PWD,                #4.21     The pl  have been        The roads Coo     consrcion has
Bihar proJecz area    f     _    GOB                   Annex 8    sat y comptd in   benefluedfromthesty. Atphase 
during the prqject, and (n) to  te                                1987.                    pep o  this will be of gat use.
a plan for ultimate development in the
project MCa
010
o1!



Purpose as defimed           By whom              Referene
Tile of Study                  at appraisal              cared out           inSAR           Status                  Impwt of Study
4. Rbflin            To mess the 8!5quaYof R&R plans   Consutants BIRD.   # 620          Study still inprogress.  Of signiicant etoBank
evadaon study     and measu res   to suggest         und ditecon of                    terunmeepos in          and GOB in     ng R&R
cmTecdvemeanm  .                  SPU, SIP.                        competely    u           progress andprle
S. Systemoperation    Todevel  O&M  pocednles           Consutants Messrs     # 627      Study in pogres          Wi assist SIP to adquately plma
and         e     and org  for the projiect          CES L  unde                                              instaL, eq, staff and opeate the
study.            coain Biaw.                        direcdon of SPU,                                         poct
SIP.
6. Socio-econom_ c   To provide datare       pr         Consultants Mesas     # 629      Study coipenly canied   W     lpin  impact
base-line study.  projectcendidons zopenit           CES Ltd under                   out and completed.        sudisat iervs mthe  tu
subsequent Impact studies.        direcidon of SPU,
SIP.
7. Xbaik faclities    To deminethe technica and         Consultants           Not        TORs drafted by GOB not  WM pm   Bank appraisa em for
alernaive study.    economic advantae of a barage                          specified   a    ble to Bank. Has    a possible second project to assew
comparedwithwotherpossible                             inSAR       been widawn from this   thealivesto haiBauge.
slutions to provide M&l supplies,                                  prject, but will be essendial
part of peparaion for a
possie seoMd poject
8. M&l warsupply   To detOnmine ll M&I demands for      Consultants           Not            d    as one of       Will pennit GOB and Bank
demandi beyond    the medium ten fuure wthinBihar                         specified     o     for credit      appraisal team toplan opmum use
year 2000 study.    to be spplied from SIP soes.                          in SAR       tnsi, but subsey  of project watr resources to satisfy
widramL Wil be          dem   of all semrs ats
essemial pert of p       of possble soond projet.
for a possle seond
project.
9. Hydro-mtr         Toexaminehydrmetstadon             Consultants wi be     Not        TOR's agreed with Bank.   Wi m tprojectp rne_to
logia   dies.     rsthe car s of                     retainedunder         sped    Conltantsbeing hnited to  acoay monitor srface  noff,
Icha and Chadil dat, and On the   direct  of SPU,       in S       propose.                 and to opeate Ianand
SsXay        and to dahve  SIP.                                                 dans curcty i times of bigh
_ d  flood fosdng                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~floods for dam safel and down
procedwes for dam safety.                                                         ste  flood         pupses.
0Je



Purpose as defmied           By whom              Referenoce
Ttlde of Study                 atapais                   carried out         in SAR          Status                   Impact of Study
10. Coputer          To advise GOB on the selection of the   Mss. ACME        Not        Studvin           ft
ings wstudy.   motpupaa dwrm                                   under       specified   seM:dnreceived.
diwcdon of Irrigadon   in SAR.
l1. Flood stludies for    To check the PMP and PMF in order   Dr.T.Prasad, Pam  Not     Studies saif rily         Bodarnsmodified tonime
ca and Chandil   to update flood etimates            Eg CoUege, and        specified   con2plet               their safety after reew by Damn
dams.                                                Dr.OMDhar, IITM,   in SAR.                                Safety Panel.
Pane.
B.
12. Pilot irigadon   To examn  em         and evaluate    OO Irigation and   # 4.02     Pilot project sudis were    The experience gained will as
sMdies            diffmssyms of micro                Agtme                # 4.13     conrewed, but were found 000 to design and oeate SIP in
distribution layots                         .                      to be Inpp_pria. Bank   Orissa
watmanageane
consultant has reviewed and
assted 000 to revise
layouts and operton. Now
preedig satistItorily.
13. P_Vmuio of an    Tolpennk we candered layout of    ConsuMats Mes         #4.17      Study in progress. Has    G     have presented SIP Orbsa to
inii    and       SIPOrissan                          WAPCOSunde                      been  viewed by Bank, and the Bank for financing. The study
db     mastier                                       dheco of ID, GOO.                stoming now being    wi assist the Bank at appraisal.
phmielrSinh                                                                corrected. 00  is in
advaced stage ofplning
SIP Orissa and has
commened consructon.
14.Sysem operation    To devop o&M p        pcedurs, ndres    Consultants    #6.27      TOR's have been drafted by Will assist OO tO adqUatlyplYDanl,
ndm -     -         ard 8snihnmfbr tbe poject                                        CGO, and have been        instal, equip, stand opeae the
studv.            comain Orssa.                                                       bmittedto Bank for       projct.
rview. However, until
finat conf Onf SIP,
could not bef   It
Shxlld tllls be traserred to
the prpsdSIP, Orissa                                  10$
0
1h
PF                                     ~~~~~~~w1



58
Table 10
Pa5e 1 of 4
SUBERNAREKHA IRIGATION PROJCT
(CREDff 1289INI
Status of Covenants
Covenant reference                         Subject                        Status
Section 2.01 (a)        Bihar and Orissa shall cary out       a)    Bihar has in geneal adhered
certain defined works and studies in  weil to these conditions, with the
their respective teitmries with      notable excepion of development of
appropniate administrative, financial,  agricultural support services which
engineering and agricultural practices,  have been neglected.
and both states shal provide propty
funads and servies thereore.
b)    Orissa was in default of
pacular covenants pertining to
aser planning and water
management pilot project for much of
le project life. Only in mid 1988 did
it bring both into compliance
Section 2.04(d)(e)      Bihar shall submit a project         Fully couplied with.
completion report aided by Orissa, to
the Bank within six months of project
closure.
Section 2.06            Bihar shall, by December 31. 1982     Fully complied with.
establish, staff and maintain a
Subernarekha Research Cell, a
SubMrnea Monitoring Unit
including a Planning ad Monitoring
Cell and a Minor Distribution System
Planning and Design Cell



59                   ~~~~~~Table 10
Page 2 of 4
Covenant reference                         Subject                        Status
Section 2.07            Bihar and Orissa shall, by (i)        a)    Plans vee submitted and
31. 1982 submit to the      agreed Fully complied with.
Bank detailed plans to establish
tring faciltes (WALMI), and (ii)     b)    While Orissa has dynamically
by         30S 1993 should have      devoped training inrasrctne by
estabished such facildes             the development of a WALML Bihar
has been very dilauty and at the close
of the project the WALMI is still
operaung in tempomry
a..ommodaton. Construction is in
progress.
Section 2.08 (i)        Bihar and Orissa shal1 indepenently   a)    TOR's for Bihar study were
by I)ember 31.1982 submit draft      not finalised unt niid 1988, and then
terms of  ence to the Bank for       only after the Bank had provied a
rigadon operation and mduenance      consultant to assist Previous
siudies.                             dialogue between Bank and GOB was
confused.
b)    The Orissa study is
premature, and the covenant should
be deleted.
Section 2.08 (ii)       Bihar and Orissa shall independently  a)    Bihar has awarded the study
by December 31. 1983. canry out the  to consultants in September 1988.
said studies.
b)    The Orissa study is
preme, and the covenant should
be deleted.
Section 2.09            Bihar shall, by December 31. 1983     The System Improvement Study was
comple a Sytem                       completed by October 1986, but the
Sy, and by Deeember31. 1984 a        Bank was not able to accept its
Socio-Econormc Baseline Survey for   findings relating to Kharkai Barrage,
the project area in Bihar.           and requested that it be repeated
showing moe data and analysis.
Thus this section of the covenant is in
partial complianlce. The Baseline
Survey has been comwpleted and is
acceptatable.
Section 2.10            BTh shae (i) by Deembe 31. 1983       Me covenant has been complied
establish and thereaft maintain a    with.
pollution control and moniting
progamme for the projet area in
Bihar, and (ii) introduce mandatr
requrements for the State Water
Pollutin Board to supply industries
from project facilities.



Table I0
60                           Page3 of 4
Covenant reference                         Subject                        Status
Section 2.11 (a)        Bihar sball (i) by D rbe 31- 1982     Fully cmpled. The Panel has been
constitute and maintain a conrctly   and continues to be active, and has
staffed Dam Safety Panel, and (ii)  resolved many problems posed to it
cause the Panel to cafry out periodic
reviews of design and construction of
the project dams.
Section 2.11 (b)
Biwar shall propose apprprate
arangements fora areview by I)A of
safety arrangements for each dam not
late than one year before completion.
Section 2.12            Orisa shaU, by Decernber31. 198,
prpae an irigation and drainage
master plan for that part of the project
in Orissa.
Section 3.01            Bihar shall (i) by   Tber 31. 19      The plans were finally prepared after
prpa a road development plan for     delays. The impkleentation of the
the project period, and (ii) execute  mad programme during the project
that plan, and (iii) by Decernber 31,  period has staed, albeit very
128 prepare a comhensive road        delayed, and progress is satsfctory.
development plan for the endre
project aea in Bihar.
Section 3.02            Bihar shall (i) by December 31. 1983  Part (i) is essentially in compliance.
commeneu an evaluation of            Pan (u) is now in partial compliance
rehabilitaion activities, and (u) not  only following   B submission to
less than two years before mDAofaplan i late Marh 1989.
submergnce of land in Bibar          Thne Creit was suspended in October
formulate a detailed implementation  1988 due tO non-compliance with this
plan.                                covenant, but was reinsated in April
1989 following submission of the
plan.
Section 3.04            Bihar shall, by Asl 1. 1984           In non-compliance. GOB has
implement a Training and Visit         rstenty faied to take any action to
agrultural exmenion system in the     mve inadequate state of the
pject area in Bihar.                 extension services in the proj  area.
In April 1989 it was proposed that
this should fail under NAEP II



61                   ~~~~~~Table 7 0
61
Page 46of 4
Covenant reference                          Subject                         Status
Section 3.05             Orissa shal not less than two yeas    (1) Complied with.
befoe land is submerged by project    (ii) Not yet due.
dams in Orissa (i) consdtme a
rduhbiltatio committ, and (ii)
formulate a sadsfactoy R&R planned
schedule.
Section 4.01             Bihar and Orissa shall (i) mntain     Part (i) in co e,plia.
sep ate fln&Acial records for the     Part (ii) late submision in several
pr~ect, and (ii) shall funish to IDA  years.
projectaccounts duly certified by an
dependent audior not mnx-c than
nine months after the end of the
subject period.
Section 4.02             Blhar and Orissa shall (i) have       In compliance.
financial accounts and staements
audited by independent auditors;
(ii) fumnisn these audit repors to IDA,
and (iii) fuish all other information
peahining to accounts et to IIDA
following its reques



SUBERNARER8A IRRGATION pQE
World Bank Staff Inputs 3/
huts (manl mekls) 
Sge Of Prjct Cycle            HQ-I/       BL HLS      Farignp      Local       FAWC        Totals
Staff                   Cotants  Ca
1.   Uptoappra                                                                                   103.9
2.    Appisal to Board apprval                                                                    116.8
3.   Board approval to effecdvene                                                                   9.4
4.   Supvsion and PCR preparaion   44.9          124.8        -          71.8        16.2        257.7
Totals                                                                         487.8
Notes:
J/   includes expiate stff based in Washdngton and NDO
21    HLLS -higerlevdelocalstaff
y     daa bfm effctvens not avaab



INDIA
SUBERNAREMsA UtRIGArrO-N PROJECr
(CR13Dff 1289-IN
Mfissions
State of Project  Month/  Number of   Days in    Specialisations   Performance Types of   Comments41
Cycle         Year      persons     field      represented 1I   rating2/   problems3
1. Beore Aprs
9118                                                                    Preparation
11178       3                   EN                                      Peparatdon
5179        2                   EN/IEC                                  Prpartion
10-11179    3                   EN/ECIAG                                FAO/CP Prep-aron
2/80        6                   EN/EC/AGIEYD                            BanlcFAO/CP Pre tionto
2/80        2                   EN/EC                                   Pparation
9/81        2         6         EN                                      Preparadon
2.        i
l11-1281    9        14         EN/EC/AG/PROC                           Appraisal
2/82        3        5          EN/BNV                                  Polluton review
3/82        1        3          EN                                      Post appisal
3/82        1        3          EC                                      Post appraisal
4/82        3         5         ENIHYD                                  Dam safety/design
4/82        3        2          EN/EC                                   Post appisal
3. Board Aonxwal
m   Effeedvenm    10/82      2        5          EN                12            M       Fssupension                  2
*   11/82   2        3          PROCtPOI                                Pc      nnance             I
11/82       1        4          TRO                                     BWALMI
o-a



State of Project  Month/   Number of   Days in    Specialisations   Perfonnance  Types of        Comments4/
Cycle      Year      persons     field      represented 1/   rading2'    problems31
4. Sugision   1/83       1           2          PROC                                             B. Procurement
1-2/83    1          8          TRG                                              B. WALMI
4/83     2           5          EN              2f2          M/PR                Periodic Supervision
7/83     2           4          PROCFIN                                          Periodic Supervision
9/83     3           5          EN/ECOOP                                         B. Canal Operations
10/83    2           5          EN              2/2          M/RR                Periodic Supervision
12/83    1           4          EN                                               B.
3/84     2                      TRG                                              B. WALMI
6/84     2           5          EN              2/2          M/F l/LRR1TIST/AG  Periodic Supervision
7/84     2           3          TRG                                              B. WALbM
8/84     2           4          PROC/N                                           Periodic Supervision
3/85     2           5          EN              212          M/FLA/STTRG         Periodic Supevision
5/85     1           2          TRG                                              B. WALMI
7/85     2           4          PROC/FIN                                         Periodic Supervision
9/85     2           5          EN/AG           3/241/3      F/MSTALA            Periodic Supervision
10/85    1           5          TRG                                              0. WALMI
12/85    1           1          MAN                                              B
1/86     10          11         MAN/ENIEC/AG 2/1/3           MW/LA/AG/TRG        Mid tern review
2/86     1           4          PROC                                             B. Procurement
3/86     1           4          EN                                               B.Tunnel mnission
4/86     2           6          TRG                                              B. WALMI
5/86     3           5          EN               I/112      WM/SI/LA             Periodic Supervision
7/86     3           5          EN/SO                        T/RR/ST/LA          B.
8/86     1           3          SO                                               B.R&R
9/86     1           4          TRG                                              0. WALMI
10/86    6           6          EN/AG             2l1/112    WT/AG/AUALEG        Periodic Supervision
11/86    1           5          TRO                                              0. WALM
11-12/86 2           10         ECIAG                                            FAO/CP Economic review t
1/87     1           4          PROC                                             Periodic Supervision
V187     7           5          ENIAG/SO        113/l13     MWAG/RRWA/ST         Periodic Supervision
9/87     3           5          EN              1/22         WAG/r/RR/ST         Periodic Supervision   0
9/87     1            3         EN                                               BTunnels



3
State of Project  Mont/   Number of   Days in    Specialisadons   Performance  Types of           Comments
Cycle      Year      persons     field      represented I/   rating       Problems3V
9/87     2            4          PROC/QIN                                         Periodic Supervsion
12/87    1            5          EN                                               B. Study TOR
2/88     5            5          EN/AG           1 2          MWr/AGIRR           Periodic Supervision
2/88     1            5          EN                                               B.Tunnels
5/88     1            1          EN                                               O.Studies
6/88     4            4          EN/EC/SO                                         B.R&R, Studies
7/88     2            2          MAN/EN                                           Management
8/88     2            1          MAN/EN                                           B. Management
8/88     1            6          HYD                                              B.Hydromet TOR
8/88     1            4          EN                                               0. Water Management
8/88     1            3          SO                                               B.R&R
V/89     5            5          MANIEN/AG/SO 23              M/RR/F/AU/AG        Final Supervision
U'
Abbreviation used.-
EN - enginee; EC - economist; AG - aricultrist; PROC - procurment specialist; FIN - financial analyst; TRG - trining specaist;
MAN - manager; SO - sociologist; HYD - hydrolo; OP - system operaion spealist
2/    Perfinnace ratingsr.
(a)   Two indicators (old system)
Ist indicator  : 1- mnor pobms; 2- modate problems; 3- serious problems
2ndindicator : 1-impring,      2- staic;           3-deteriorating
(b)   Four indicators (new system) - all indicators:
1 - mAnor problems;
2 - moderateproblems;
3 - serius problems being addrssed by borrower,
4  rserious problems not being addressed by bwer.



3/    Abbreviations used:-
M - management problems. including staffing,. infrastructure, attention to project components; T - technical (engineering) deficiencies;
LEG - serious covenant non-compliance; F - financal problems; PR - pr ment infringement; AG - agriacltal deficiencies;
RR - resetdement and rehabilitation deficiencies; LA - land acqisiton problems; AU - audit non-compliance;
ST - inadequate or delayed studies.
4/    B - Bihar component only; 0 - Orissa component only. All other entries conmon to both components.
0'
0'2



NPE ertIBR <su  ,5                                            S. 4S                            s  ,                                                                     lElBD 1B62
,0DmAM    WtA2  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C              ?b.   ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~M 
.go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  E            B E N   GA  A  L                                                 I N D I A
/> kISAOtMlSAS2X<             ef !              W E ST              B  N G    L                <SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
N.J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
R s i  A
PROPMD                   EXI S C [L -w TING \ 
/W\4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                              9Sd    i)- _LI -D.,_, WmigW.e.  A -= 
/1:   E   iy   <   ................................................................. ?_ Pt  Hti.1r_  g ri-MEAss 
\  4s6   $   5           ,40 f.r;    \                                                        __ 1_tl I%ndorirt           s; i                                  . s 



