Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY          -= E
Report No. P-3375-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 116.3 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$127.0 MILLION)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
JULY 28, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onl
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without W.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 14, 1982)
US$1.00      =  Rs 9.594203
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.1042
Rs 1 million = US$104,200
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 9.00, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AD      -   Agricultural Department
CWC     -   Central Water Commission
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOB     -   Government of Bihar
GOI     -   Government of India
GOO     -   Government of Orissa
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ID      -   Irrigation Department, Bihar
IDMP    -   Irrigation and Drainage Master Plan
I & M   -   Industrial and Municipal
IPD     -   Irrigation and Power Department, Orissa
JCB     -   Joint Control Board
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
O & M   -   Operations and Maintenance
PMC     -   Planning and Monitoring Cell
SIS     -   Subernarekha Irrigation System
SPU     -   Subernarekha Project Unit
TPA     -   Tri-Partite Agreement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL'
INDIA
SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiary:              The States of Bihar and Orissa
Amount:                   SDR 116.3 million (US$127.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Relending Terms:          GOI to Governments of Bihar (GOB) and Orissa (GOO):
as part of Central Assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project Description:    The purpose of the project is to finance
the first phase (covering a 4-year period) of the
Subernarekha Irrigation System (SIS), a
large-scale development involving irrigation works
and associated support activities which, when
completed, will provide a reliable water supply to
some 255,000 ha of cultivable land in Bihar,
Orissa and West Bengal, provide water for
industrial and municipal use in Bihar, and reduce
flood damage in Orissa and West Bengal.
The components of the overall SIS covered under
this credit would be confined to the States of
Bihar and Orissa and would comprise the partial
construction of the Chandil and Ichha dams and
associated canals; partial construction of the
Galudih Barrage and associated canals; and the
Kharkai canals; initial block irrigation
development on about 21,000 ha; the establishment
of training facilities for minor systems
development and water management, and the
institutional framework for managing the fully
completed SIS works; and carrying out various
pilot studies to facilitate preparation of the
later phases of the total SIS project. The major
risk under the proposed project involves the
possible non-completion of the total SIS after
project completion. Adequate assurances have been
received from the States and GOI, however, to
satisfy the Association that the risk is
acceptably low. Other risks are those normally
associated with irrigation projects in India and
are acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
(US$ million)
Estimated Project Costs 1/                             Local      Foreign      Total
Chandil Dam  and Canals                                50.5        11.9          62.4
Ichha Dam and Canals                                   19.7         5.5         25.2
Kharkai Canals                                          3.0          0.9          3.9
Galudih Barrage and Right Canal                        17.2         4.2          21.4
Establishment Costs                                    16.4           -          16.4
Block Irrigation Works                                  2.9         0.4           3.3
Monitoring, Evaluation, Studies,
Research, and Pollution Control                       0.5         0.1          0.6
Pilot Irrigation Areas & Training                       1.8         0.4           2.2
Sub-Total                                    112.0        23.4         135.4
Physical Contingencies                                 12.1         2.8          14.9
Price Contingencies                                    26.4         5.2          31.6
Total Project Cost                           150.5        31.4         181.9
(US$ million)
Financing Plan:                                        Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                                               95.6          31.4      127.0
GOB                                                39.0           -        39.0
OO                                                15.4           -        15.4
GOWB                                                0.5           -         0.5
TOTAL                                        150.5         31.4       181.9
('US$ million)
Estimated Disbursement:                               FY83   FY84  FY85  FY86  FY8
Annual:                      9.0   19.0  28.0  40.0  31.0
Cumulative:                 9.0   2800  56.0  96.0 127.0
Rate of Return: 17%
Appraisal Report: No. 3948-IN dated July 23, 1982.
1/ Including taxes and duties which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for SDR 116.3 million (US$127.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance the first phase of the Subernarekha Irrigation
System. The Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the
credit to the Governments of Bihar and Orissa in accordance with GOI's
standard terms and arrangements for financing State development projects.
The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
700 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging abo-ut- 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base
is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land.
Consequently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over
the past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added
(5.0% per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the
share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices)
from 60% to about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around
24%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation,
with significantly higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.
In the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able
to increase agricultural output faster than total population while
eliminating persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and
investment have increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings
more than doubled from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana
Social Forestry Project Project (No. P-3365-IN), dated July 15, 1982.



domes    investment rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%.  Foreign savings
(balance of pavrments deficit cr. current account) have never financed a
major portion of domestic investment:  a peak of about 20% was reached
during the early 1960s; for a few years in the late 1970s, surpluses
arose, and at the present time, foreign savings are about 10% of
investment. External assistance has been low both as a, percentage of GDP
and in per capita terms.  Net external assistance has never risen above 3%
of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the 1970s.
5.      BeI-ore the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion ard more on import substitution.  The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than -he volume growth of imports over the same period.  In the
early to m:d-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained
roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. in response, the
Government introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate
exports. As a result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about
7.6% per annum for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates
that sustained rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets,
particular'Ly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth,
liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective export incentives
played a m;ajar role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of
foodgrain output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of
foodgrain production in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP,
agricultural and industrial value-added, substantially exceeded the
historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this
momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with
a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led
to a sharp fail in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening
up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged
after several years of virtual price stability. The irapact of these
setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, particularly in the
balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some years to
come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost comipleted and
the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP
growing by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to
rise by more than 15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with
judicious use of Government buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also
helped moderate price rises. Inflation remained a serious problem with
the annual average wholesale price index rising 18%, although. the second
half of the year provided clear evidence of a deceleraltion in inflation.
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81
and GDP grew by 5.5%.  While foodgrain production rose only modestly over
its 1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed
well and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power,



-3-
coal and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in
1981/82, recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively.
As constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities
continued to ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The
downward trend in inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9%
on an average annual basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March
1982 basis was less than 2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier
supply conditions, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy,
contributed to the sharp decline in the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also
provided continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments
and appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached
between 132 and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the
previous record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while
fertilizer consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%,
despite substantial price increases. Recent performance and probable
future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand. However, the balance remains delicate with some imports likely to
be required from time to time. Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80
drought were still being felt in 1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat
were imported to rebuild depleted stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively
low import requirement, the ability of the Government to delay imports for
as long as two years after the production shortfall, and the decline in
foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the flexibility and resilience
provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high
inflation in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of
declining capacity utilization in important, interrelated sectors such
as power, coal, and rail transport. A major cause of the improved
economic climate over the last two years has been a much improved level of
output in these sectors, due mainly to greater efficiency and utilization
of installed capacity. Expansion of coal output by about 10 million. tons
for the second successive year and of rail freight traffic to a record
level were particularly noteworthy features of the 1981/82 economic
performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy production which
contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have also been
reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for improving
efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will become
increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates
exceeded investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually
increased, recent experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy
continue to outstrip the availability of resources, both internal and
external. Investment exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25%
of GDP, are already high and further increases, particularly from the
household sector, will be increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over
the last two years, the Government has taken a number of measures to
generate higher savings in the public sector. Principal among these were



-4-
price and tax increases, and subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities
produced mainly in the public sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent: in the foreign
sector. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the zost of India's
POL imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled
with domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these
factors caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of
GDP in 1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81.  In 1981/82, the current account
deficit rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP.  Unfavorable
movements in export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse
outcome. However, the much improved performance of basic
import-substituting industries and a resumption of heal-thy export volume
growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance this gap in the face of
inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government drew down a record
US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew almost
US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund Facility,
and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of finance. In
1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed commitments for
commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were contracted for
major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring
India's external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level
of growth.  In particular, there is a need to increase the-gTrowth of
exports, to increase production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports
of these items, to moderate the rise in oil imports through greater
domestic production and slower demand growth, and to further reduce the
constraints in transportation and other infrastructural facilities which
are retarding growth in a wide range of activities, including exports. It
is encouraging that, in response to the present balance of payments
difficulties, the Government has not reacted by placing more stringent
controls on imports, but rather has maintained and extended the more
liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export and industrial policy measures have
improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates thalt Indie. does have
the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless is large in absolute terms and has a highly diversified
structure, capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods.  Basic infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications,
power, roads and ports -- is extensive cornpared to many countries,
although there is considerable need for additional capacity as well as
improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional inf2^astructure
for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in
terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but



-5-
also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development
objectives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now
about halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy
development, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
performance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of
continued bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is
growing. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an
acceleration of domestic savings rates.  The efforts of the Central
Government to raise resources have so far been impressive and are likely
to be broadly sufficient to meet the financing requirements of the Centra:L
Government's share in plan investment, if inflation can be kept in check.
However, a significant shortfall in savings is likely to occur in some
states unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also
for continuous efforts to maintain and raise further the already high
level of private savings. Recent increases in interest rates and tax
concessions on time deposits should stimulate such savings. The further
dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects for which look
bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur
well for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not
matched the size of India's investment programs. MAuch of this phenomenon
relates to India's stage of development, in which a large and growing
proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure.
These services, such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently
high capital output ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the
sectoral capital output ratios has been due to a deterioration in
efficiency and is avoidable through better management. Bottlenecks in
these basic sectors clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where
large investments have been made. As demonstrated in the last two years,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better
planning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity
utilization, throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand
domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like
coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative
advantage. For sectors such as power and transportation, expansion of
planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the
economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term prospects. At
present rates of development, however, an adequate balance between supply
and demand in these sectors will be difficult to sustain. Performance in
the power sector to date suggests that India's power deficit will continue
into the early 1990s, although more rapid project implementation and
efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For railways, real
investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections and will
need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if serious
bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between



-6-
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the
prospects for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports
are quite bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by
successive price increases for petroleum products. On the production
side, scheduled expansion is expected to raise domestic production of
crude from the current 46% to about 64% of demand by 1984/85.  The rapidly
expanding level of exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities
for accelerated offtake from known fields offer much encouragement for
India's longer term energy prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has
been marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves
reached a record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import
coverage by the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of
the IMV Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable
debt service profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial
capital markets at favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high
underlying rates) and in the last two years commercial borrowing has been
stepped up. These sources will be important in the future since India's
current account deficits, though not large relative to the size of the
economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will necessitate
external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge
on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high
growth. In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy
for achieving these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings
for further investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased
emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the
balance of payments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an
important element in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly
will be adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although India is
currently in a position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the
very low levels of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness
in world markets. Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting
the structure of the Indian economy to a more open and efficient
environment as intended by the Government requires foreign resources in
addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India. Indeed,
along with increasing exports, higher levels of investment to support an
adequate rate of growth is a key element in maintaining India's recently
improved creditworthiness.  India is still a very poor country with a
large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human
development and basic infrastructure.  The fact that India has been able
to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth above the long term
trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends substance to the hope
that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove constraints
on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization
of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth closer
to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per annum. Combined



-7-
with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the
need for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if
possible. The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or
about 12 million higher than official projections. The fact that there
was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to
about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may
suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation
of a measurable decline in the population growth rate has not
materialized. Until full details of the Census are released, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan which aims at a
rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group
from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless
laborers and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of
the urban population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the
living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall
growth of the economy, particularly on increases in agricultural
production and employment, in non-farm rural employment, and also in
employment opportunities in urban areas. These developments will have to
stem in large part from market forces which, however, must be encouraged
and reinforced by appropriate Government policies and the strengthening of
basic services and infrastructure. The declining trend in real foodgrain
prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from India's sustained effort to
raise agricultural production, reflects such developments.  There is also
a role for direct Government action in faster implementation of land
reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty through land
redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the supply of
credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally in
broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements
of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian
planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the
expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Operations such as
the community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy
campaign provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively
low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN IND)IA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 develoDment
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both
net of cancellation), re,pectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million
has been repaid, and US$3,254 million was still undisbursed as of
March 31, 1982. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an
increase of about 28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling
US$176.5 million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid9, US$42.6
million sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9
million, US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A
summary statement of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included
in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the aivailability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of--tie lending
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic: growth in India,
particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains hig'hly relevant, and
consonant with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The
continued active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects.  Irrigation will need conti-nuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major iknvestments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil impcrts and
alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas



-9-
resources is a central element of this program, which should be
supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in
the expansion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial
projects to increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which
have been in short supply and which India has a comparative advantage in
producing, should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the
efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a
key constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so that
further support of the railways and for ports development will be
particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the
mid-1970s. However, there is now a need for increased foreign assistance
to adjust to an even greater deterioration in balance of payments
anticipated during the 1980s by augmenting domestic resources and
stimulating investment. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and
should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support. Therefore, India should be
eligible and regarded as creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The
ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in
1981/82 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totalled
US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross
disbursements, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and
52%, respectively, in 1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the
Bank Group's share was US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and
IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt
service payments were to the Bank Group.



-1G-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN THE SUBERNAREKHA RIVER BASIN
29.     The Subernarekha River is an inter-state river flowing through
the States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengdl into the Bay of Bengal. Its
catchment area is approximately 19,000 km , of which about 70% is located
in Bihar. Most of the remaining catchment area is located within Orissa,
with only a very small portion (less than 1%) of the total area being
located in West Bengal. In its lower reaches, the river cannot carry the
heavy flood discharges which occur during the monsoon and frequently
overflows, inundating large areas (up to 100,000 ha) in West Bengal and
Orissa.
30.     The State of Bihar, which covers an area of approximately 17
million hectares, has a population of about 70 million, most of whom are
relatively poor and the proportion of those educated is lower than the
average for India. The agricultural sector dominates the State's economy,
accounting for over 70% of the State's domestic product and employing
about 83% of the working population. Yields, however, are generally low
and fertilizer consumption is about half the all-India average. The
mpdian farm size is about .6 ha and 73% of the holdings are less than 1 ha
in size. Since practically all of the cultivable land is already under
cultivation, a major expansion in agricultural production and an
improvement in the incomes of the rural poor must come from expansion of
irrigation to new areas and more effective water use in the areas already
under irrigation. The State of Orissa, which covers some 15.5 million
hectares, has a population of approximately 26 milliorl which is
predominantly rural. About 60% of the population has incomes below the
poverty line (US$114 per capita). Health, education and literacy rates
are also below all-India averages. While Orissa has vast forest and
mineral resources, the economy of the State still centers on agriculture,
which provides employment for about 80% of Orissa's working population.
Paddy is the predominant agricultural crop, covering some 70% of the total
cropped area but its yield, as well as that for most other crops, is low.
Irrigation is seen as the primary means of raising both agricultural
production and rural incomes.
The Subernarekha Irrigation System (SIS)
31.     Development proposals for the Subernarekha River Basin were
submitted by the Government of Bihar in 1973. However, since it is an
inter-state river, an agreement between the riparian States on the sharing
of water and development costs of the joint components was required. The
"Tri-Partite Agreement" (TPA), which was signed in Delhi in August 1978,
provides a basis for sharing the Subernarekha River water between the
three States and, inter alia, stipulates the order of execution of the
various components comprising the SIS and the institutional arrangements
for construction and management of the joint works. The agreement also
stipulates the flood moderation arrangements and the sharing of
developmental costs. When fully developed, the SIS will provide a
reliable water supply for the irrigation of some 255,000 ha of cultivable
commani area in Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal; provide water (about
654 Mm at full development) for industrial and municipal (I & M) use in



-1 1-
the State of Bihar; and reduce flood damage in Orissa and West Bengal.
The Association's involvement in this initial phase of the SIS provides an
opportunity to influence the design and operational characteristics of the
total SIS scheme and will ensure that, if a later participation is seen to
be desirable, the Association's standards will have been followed.
32.     The primary source of storage water in the SIS will be two dams
and reservoirs located in Bihar.  The Chandil Dam, to be built3on the
Subernarekha River, will have a reservoir capacity of 1,963 Mm and will
store water for irrigation, for meeting I & M water requirements, and for
providing flood moderation storage benefitting Orissa and West Bengal.
Two canals, the 134 km Chandil Left Canal, and the 38 km Chandil Right
Canal will convey the water to some 75,000 ha of land in Bihar and
5,000 ha of land in West Bengal through associated distribution systems.
The Ichha Dam will have a reservoir capacity of 1,042 Mm and is to be
built on the Kharkai River. The Ichha Canals, both Right and Left, will
supply water for irrigating about 60,000 ha in Bihar. The Kharkai Right
Canal, to be fed from either the Chandil or Ichha Dams, will supply water
for irrigating approximately 16,000 ha of land along the Subernarekha
River in Bihar. The Galudih Barrage and its Canals will be constructed on
the Subernarekha River below the confluence of the Subernarekha and the
Kharkai Rivers and will be operated in conjunction with the two dams as a
control structure diverting water into two canals: the Right (Link) Canal,
conveying water to the Orissa border and irrigating some 3,000 ha of land
in Bihar and the Left Canal providing water for industrial and municipal
users and for irrigating some 6,000 ha in Bihar. Within Orissa there will
be three command area storage reservoirs and a network of canals and minor
distribution systems to serve about 90,000 ha.
33.     As indicated above, the Chandil Dam will provide storage (463 Mm )
for flood moderation. Floods in the lower reaches of the Subernarekha
River have been causing heavy damage in both Orissa and West Bengal almost
every year. A committee, established by GOI in 1972, studied alternative
locations for flood moderation schemes and recommended a combination of
flood storage in the Chandil Dam and appropriate river embankments in West
Bengal and Orissa.
34.     The Association has supported irrigation development in Orissa and
Bihar. Projects in the early 1960s, in both States, were among the
Association's first irrigation projects in India. Currently, the Orissa
Irrigation Project (1977, Cr. No. 740-IN) focusses on utilizing small
river systems to irrigate some 66,000 ha of land in the State. Progress
is satisfactory. The Mahanadi Barrages Project (1981, Cr. 1078-IN) is
replacing two 110 year-old weirs within Orissa that provide irrigation to
some 167,000 ha of land and is progressing satisfactorily. Bihar and
Orissa also have on-going projects in Agricultural Extension: the Bihar
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (1978, Cr. 761-IN) has been
delayed but, as from January 1982, GOB has taken the necessary steps to
increase the pace of implementation; the Orissa Agricultural Development
Project (1977, Cr. No. 682-IN) is progressing well. The States also
benefit from a number of multi-state projects in agricultural credit,
dairy and fisheries.



-12-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
35.     The proposed project will finance the first four-year time-slice
of development of the overall SIS commencing April 1, 1982 through
March 31, 1986. Essentially all of the works undertaken during this phase
would be located in the State of Bihar and would focus primarily on the
Chandil complex, which is at the most advanced stage of preparation.
Initial water delivery from this complex is projected for 1988/89. The
second area of concentration would be the Galudih complex which includes
the key components for conveyance of water to Orissa. Work would also
start on the Ichha complex. Additionally, a number of studies and
investigations that are needed for the detailed planning of the later SIS
phases would be undertaken: the planning and design of the minor
distribution systems; the development of operations and maintenance plans
and estimates; and the completion of a number of studies, surveys and
master plans as described below. During this phase the resettlement of
displaced persons from the project reservoirs' sites would commence.
36.     The Chandil Dam would be a 55 m high, 720 m long composite dam
structure on the Subernarekha River. During the project period the
concrete/masonry sections and the earth flank dams would be started and
brought to 50% completion. A contract for radial gates wou:Ld also be
awarded. The Chandil Left Canal will be partly constructed with 4
sections out of a total of 13 sections being completedi.- C-nstruction of
access roads and construction camps for the Galudih Barrage complex is
underway. About 40% of the base concrete barrage structure and 10% of the
gate fabrication would be completed under the project. The 63 km long
Galudih Right (Link) Canal would have some 25% of the earth-work and 10%
of the lining and structures completed under the project. The Ichha Dam
complex would involve the dam, a 38 m high and 1,216 m long composite
structure, five earth-saddle dams of varying heights, aggregating 6,017 m
in length, and the associated Left and Right Canals. Camp buildings,
utilities and access road construction for the complex would be completed
during the project period and a start made on the masonry dam sections.
Excavation works for the 19 km Left Canal and the 32 km Right Canal will
be 35% and 25% completed, respectively, by the end of the project period.
Construction would also begin on the distributaries of the Kharkai Right
Canal including the 103 km long Murakati distributary which will run along
the right side of the Galudih Right Canal to the Bihar/Orissa border and
serve about 9,000 ha. During the four-year period of this -project, block
irrigation works would commence in about 21,000 ha of land in Bihar.
37.     Pilot irrigation areas would be established in Bihar and Orissa on
about 250 ha in each State by the State irrigation departments. The pilot
areas would be used, inter alia, for trial designs and demonstration of
layouts for minor distribution systems, evaluation of disLribution system
performance, evaluation of alternative construction materials, and
construction methods for watercourse lining and control structures.
Provision would also be made in the project for undertaking a
socio-economic base-line survey and for preparing a comprehensive
irrigation system improvement study to determine the optimal location,
design and timing of the Kharkai Barrage complex, the Chandil Right and



-13-
Galudih Left Canals under the second phase of the SIS. GOB would, by
December 31, 1983, complete the systems improvement study and by
December 31, 1984, complete a socio-economic baseline survey of the
project area in Bihar under terms of reference agreed with the
Association. (See draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09.)
38.     There are potential drainage problems that may affect some 10% of
the project area in Orissa. Additionally, there are groundwater resources
whose development may be integrated with the surface irrigation system.
Therefore, the project would provide for preparation of a comprehensive
Irrigation and Drainage Master Plan (IDMP) for the Orissa portion of the
SIS. Preparation of the plan would involve detailed investigations
leading to the assessment of the groundwater potential; the determination
of alternative ways for developing groundwater, including comparison of
costs and benefits; the determination of the areas requiring drainage
improvement and preparation of cost estimates for drainage works; and the
identification of additional areas which could be brought under irrigation
and the priorities for such works. GOO would prepare, by
December 31, 1984, an IDMP under terms of reference agreed with the
Association. (See draft Project Agreement, Section 2.12.)
39.     The project would finance the establishment of an Irrigation
Research Center within the regional research station which is being
established by the Birsa Agricultural University near the Galudih Barrage
site. Irrigation research activities would emphasize crop water
requirements, methods for increasing irrigation efficiencies at the farm
level, design of water distribution systems at the sub-chak 1/ level, and
testing of new crop varieties that may prove more suitable under local
conditions.
40,     Construction of the Chandil and Ichha Dams would, when complete,
result in submergence of about 26,000 ha in Bihar and about 4,000 ha in
Orissa. The number of families affected in the area submerged by the two
dams is estimated at about 10,000 in Bihar and about 1,000 in Orissa.
While submergence of lands at the Chandil Dam in Bihar will not begin
until 1987, and at the Ichha Dam until 1990, resettlement of displaced
persons in Bihar would begin during the four-year project period. The
resettlement policies of both Bihar and Orissa are acceptable to the
Association and GOB has already appointed separate Rehabilitation
Committees for the Chandil and Ichha Dams. A guiding principle for
rehabilitation will be that each family will be offered a choice of
rehabilitation alternatives. To ensure that adequate relocation benefits
are provided, funding is provided to ensure adequate monitoring of the
rehabilitation program on an on-going basis by the Planning and Monitoring
Cell of the Subernarekha Project Unit (SPU). It would begin with a sample
base-line survey of the situation before displacement, followed by
periodic post-rehabilitation surveys. Findings and recommendations will
be communicated to GOB, the SPU and the Rehabilitation Committees. GOB
would, by December 31, 1983, commence an on-going evaluation of its
1/  Sub-chak: the irrigation service area of 5-8 ha served by an independ-
ent outlet.



-14-
rehabilitation activities under terms of reference agreed with the
Association and, not less than two years before causing submergence of any
land located in the SIS in Bihar, formulate a rehabilitation plan,
including an implementation schedule agreed with the Association. (See
draft Project Agreement, Section 3.02). GOO would, not less than two
years before causing submergence of any land in the SIS in Orissa,
constitute a Rehabilitation Committee and formulate a rehabilitation plan,
including an implementation schedule, agreed with the Association. (See
draft Project Agreement, Section 3.05.)
41.     Since the project will provide water to I & M water users in
Bihar, prevention of pollution is an important aspect of the project. At
present, the State Water Pollution Control and Prevention Board in Bihar,
which has responsibility for pollution control matters, is inadequately
staffed. It has not yet determined treatment requirements for waste water
discharged into the Subernarekha River. However, the Board plans a
comprehensive program to control water pollution in the Subernarekha River
including studies of effluent quality and on-going monitoring of river
water quality at selected sampling points. Provisions would be made under
the project for monitoring and laboratory equipment and for vehicles as
well as training for the two regional environmental engineers who would be
stationed in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. In addition, the Irrigation
Department (ID) will provide the Board with access to, and use of, its
laboratory facilities. GOB would, by December 31, 1983, establish and
thereafter maintain a pollution control and monitoring program for the
project area in Bihar which will be carried out in a manner agreed with
the Association and introduce mandatory requirements for the supply of
water to industrial users. (See draft Project Agreement, Section 2.10.)
Water pollution is not at issue in the project area in Orissa.
42.     An adequate network of roads throughout the 255,000 ha command
area would be essential both to facilitate construction and to provide
farmers with adequate access to markets. Although these roads will be
constructed under on-going GOI programs for assisting tribal areas, they
will be constructed in conjunction with the irrigation development works.
The construction schedule for the road network will require careful
planning and close coordination with the construction of the irrigation
network. GOB would, by December 31, 1982, prepare and furnish a plan to
IDA, for developing the remaining project roads that are not yet built but
that will be essential to the irrigation construction activities during
this project time-slice, and execute such a plan in consonance with the
construction of the irrigation works; and, by December 31, 1984, prepare
a comprehensive road development plan for the entire project area located
in Bihar. (See draft Project Agreement, Section 3.01.) Construction of
project roads in Orissa would not be required during this project period.
43.     A group of experts have reviewed the pre-construction
investigations and designs for the two dams and appurtenances. Its report
indicates that no significant deficiencies were found and the improvements
recommended by the experts are being implemented. To ensure that
preszribed construction methods and operating criteria are met, GOB would,
by December 31, 1982, set up and maintain thereafter a Dam Review Panel
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA
and cause the dams and related structures to be constructed under the



-15-
project to be periodically inspected to verify their safety. (See draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.11.)
44.     The training of engineers in minor systems development and water
management techniques is critical to the success of this project. The
project would assist the establishment of training facilities in both
Bihar and Orissa for minor systems development. The training program
would comprise courses varying from 3 to 9 months duration for personnel
in the State irrigation departments having university degrees or diplomas
in civil or agricultural engineering. It would make full use of the pilot
irrigation areas set up under the project, the findings from the
engineering research program into minor distribution systems noted above
(para 39) and the operations and maintenance studies noted below
(para 56). GOB and GOO would, by December 31, 1982, prepare detailed
proposals, agreed with IDA, for the establishment of facilities for
training in minor systems development and water management and establish
such training facilities by September 30, 1983. (See draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.07.)
45.     In order to achieve the level of benefits assumed, farmers must
be well-informed of irrigation methods, crop water management requirements
and selection of suitable crops and their rotations. The Agricultural
Departments (AD) of both States would undertake these functions, which
would assume increasing importance during the second and later phases.
GOB would ensure that the T & V program is extended throughout the project
area in Bihar by April 1, 1984. (See draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.04.)
Status of Project Preparation
46.     The final plans and designs for the Chandil Dam have been
completed and tendering will take place following credit negotiations.
GOB is proceeding with the construction of certain access roads,
construction camps and other pre-construction activities and the
excavation contracts have been awarded for the Chandil Dam complex.
Pre-construction work at the Galudih Barrage site has also been initiated.
Geological explorations have not yet been completed for the Ichha Dam, the
final designs and plans for which are expected to be completed around
June 1983. Pre-construction work on access roads and construction of
buildings has just commenced in that area. The engineering design and
contract documents are completed for segments within the first 25 km of
the Chandil Left Canal, and bids for some segments were advertised in
December 1981. The tender documents and the methodologies adopted by GOB
in this preliminary work have been reviewed by the Association and found
to be acceptable.
Project Costs
47.     The total project cost (for this first four-year time-slice) is
estimated at Rs 1,640 million (US$182 million), including taxes and duties
which are negligible. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
Rs 284 million (US$31 million) which is about 17% of total cost. Physical
contingencies, which were estimated separately for each item, average 11%
of the base cost. Cost estimates are based on March 1982 prices. Price



-16-
contingencies on both local and f oreign items account for 2K3% of the base
cost, 8.5% in 1982/83, 8% in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85 and 7% in 1985/86.
The proposed IDA credit of US$127.0 million would finance about 70% of
total project costs, including all the foreign exchange costs and about
60% of the local costs. The justification for local cost financing in
India is given in para 26 above. GOB and GOO would execute the remainder
of the SIS works as soon as technically and financially feasible after
this project has been completed. (See draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.06.)
Procurement & Disbursement
48.      Civil works financed under the project would cost about US$108
million, excluding contingencies, engineering and administration costs.
Wherever possible, such works would be grouped in appropriate bidding
packages in order to facilitate competition among potential bidders.
About 95% of the works will be procured under competitive bidding
procedures. The construction of the major dams and canals, totalling
approximately US$55 million, would be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB). Eligible domestic bidders would be entitled to
a preference of 7.5%.  Local competitive bidding (LCB) would be used to
procuro about US$37 million of minor works, each costing less than US$5
million, which will be scattered throughout the project area. Such works
are not likely to be of interest to foreign bidders. Up to approximately
US$16 million would be individually small and scattered civil works,
including minor distribution systems works whose implementation would be
governed either by weather conditions or the need to minimize interference
with vital agricultural operations. These would therefore not be suitable
for ICB tendering and may also prove to be unsuitable for LCB tendering
and would be carried out under small piece-work or rate contracts. When
required by safety or quality considerations, or when the quantities of
work are difficult to estimate in advance, such works may be implemented
by GOB or GOO departmental forces.
49.      In order to meet the project implementation targets, GOB has
awarded some contracts since the completion of the project appraisal
(December 1, 1981). These would be eligible for financing under the
project since the tender arrangements were reviewed by IDA and found to be
satisfactory. Retroactive financing for such works would not exceed
US$6.0 million. (See draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1,
para 4.)
50.     The total cost of goods financed under the project is estimated
at US$12 million. All goods will be procured using competitive bidding
procedures. Heavy equipment and heavy vehicles costing approximately
US$5.5 million would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and
procured through ICB. Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Light equipment, vehicles and various instruments
costing US$6.5 million would be procured under LCB procedures which are
acceptable since there is adequate domestic competition and! local prices
are reasonable. Because of the small and varied natujre of these items,
the ready availability of local servicing capabilities and plentiful spare
parts supply facilities, local procurement for such goods has significant
advantages over ICB procured items.  The Central Water Commission (CWC)



-17-
of GOI has recently developed standard ICB and LCB documents and
procedures for procurement of both works and goods that have been approved
by the Association. Both GOB and GOO have adopted these documents and
procedures and will use them in the project. All bidding packages for
civil works estimated to cost in excess of US$500,000 equivalent and for
goods costing in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's
prior review and the remaining contracts would be subject to IDA
post-review procedures.
51.     Disbursements under the credit would be made at the rate of 80%
for civil works; for materials, vehicles and equipment, disbursements
would be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, 100% of
ex-factory costs for locally manufactured vehicles and equipment, and 70%
of the costs of other locally procured materials, vehicles and equipment.
Disbursements would be made at the rate of 99% for the pilot areas,
research, studies, monitoring and evaluation and training, including
facilities. Taxes, for which the Association would not provide the
finance, amount to less than 1% of this category. Disbursements for force
account work and for payments of less than Rs 300,000 under civil works
contracts and Rs 150,000 for equipment, instruments and vehicles would be
made against statements of expenditures itemised by project component.
Documentation for these works would be retained by the State Government
concerned and made available for inspection by IDA during review missions.
Full documentation would be required for all other disbursements. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by April 1987.
Accounts and Audits
52.     The project would be subject to normal government control and
auditing procedures which are satisfactory. Separate accounts would be
maintained for the joint components to facilitate cost sharing among the
participating States. Although continuous and annual audits are carried
out by the State Accountant General, this tends to be a lengthy process
and it would be essential, therefore, to have interim certified statements
of account. GOB and GOO would maintain separate accounts on project
expenditures, ensure that these accounts would be audited annually by the
Accountant General and submit interim statements of account to IDA as soon
as possible, but not later than nine months after the end of each fisca:L
year. (See draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.02.)
Organization and Management
53.     In Bihar, the responsibility for implementation of irrigation
development works, pilot irrigation areas and other related studies rests
with the ID; and for agricultural research and extension activities, with
the AD. The ID also has a responsibility for planning and monitoring
irrigation projects. Project implementation will require a considerable
increase in ID project staff; a four-fold increase in technical staff
alone over current levels will be required during this project. To
facilitate implementation, coordination and management of the SIS, GOB
would, by December 31, 1982, establish, and thereafter maintain, within
the ID, a separate entity, the Subernarekha Project Unit (SPU) with
staffing structure and responsibilities acceptable to IDA.  The main
functions of the SPU would include: preparing annual budget proposals and



-18-
implementation plans, designing the associated minor distribution systems;
investigating alternative locations and layouts of works to be undertaken
in later phases of the SIS, ensuring that plans for supporting
infrastructure such as roads are prepared and implemented in a timely
manner, ensuring that the interests of all potential water users are
considered at the design and implementation stages and ensuring
coordination between the various agencies participating in the project,
dealing with inter-state issues arising during project implementation and
rehabilitating displaced persons with the help of rehabilitation
committees established within GOB and GOO for this purpose. The Central
Design Organization within the ID will be responsible for developing model
designs for minor systems under different topographical conditions through
a special unit, a Research Cell, located in the project area. GOB would,
by December 31, 1982, establish and adequately staff a Subernarekha
Research Cell in the Central Design Organization. To ensure adequate
project planning and monitoring, GOB would, by December 31, 1982,
establish within the SPU a Planning and Monitoring Cell to undertake
socio-economic surveys within Bihar, to review project progress and
constraints, to prepare comprehensive plans for the later phases of the
SIS, and to collect information on the latest irrigation systems designs
and improvements and communicate these to the relevant project design
authorities.  (See draft Project Agreement, Section 2.06.)
54.     In Orissa, the responsibilities for irrigation matters within the
State and for representing GOO on matters relating to multi-state
irrigation components, for establishing and operating the pilot irrigation
area, and for developing the Irrigation and Drainage Master Plan rests
with the Irrigation and Power Department (IPD). Activities in Orissa
during this project time-slice consist primarily of planning and of
conducting surveys and investigations, including the development of the
pilot irrigation area and preparation of the IDMP.
55.     In August 1981, GOB and GOO constituted a Joint Control
Board (JCB) for execution of the Galudih Barrage and Galudih Right Canal
and have agreed on its main functions. The JCB will be chaired
alternately by the Chief Ministers of Bihar and Orissa. The JCB has
appointed a functional committee and a technical committee which will have
the administrative and financial powers required for the execution of the
Galudih complex. The regulation of the Chandil and Ichha Dams and the
Galudih Barrage will be by a committee consisting of a Member, CWC, as the
Chairman and three Chief Engineers, one each from the riparian States.
GOB and GOO would maintain the institutional arrangements for the
construction and operation of the joint project components, including the
necessary committees. (See draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b).)
Operations and Maintenance
56.     The size and complexity of the SIS is such that sound management
of the operations and maintenance functions is essential for the effective
operation of the irrigation system. While the exact details of systems
operation and maintenance can be finalized only at a date nearer to the
commencement of irrigation (i.e. outside the period of this project), it
is important to begin studies and investigations leading to development of
Operations and Maintenance (O & M) procedures and concomitant



-19-
organizational arrangements as soon as possible. 0 & M procedures have
important design implications which should be identified at an early stage
and, in addition, large-scale block irrigation works starting under this
project time-slice would require clear decisions on system operation. The
project provides for 0 & M studies in each State which will include
evaluation of present 0 & M practices and visits to successfully managed
projects inside and outside the country in order to benefit from their
experience. GOB and GOO would, by December 31, 1982, prepare terms of
reference for review by the Association for a detailee operations and
maintenance study to establish rules, procedures and requirements for
effective management and preventive maintenance of the entire water
distribution system from the dams to the individual field level, undertake
and complete the study by December 31, 1983, and utilize the
recommendation of the study in formulating the operations and maintenance
estimates and procedures for subsequent implementation in the project.
(See draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08.)
Cost Recovery
57.     In Bihar, water charges are collected on two bases: those schemes
with assured irrigation and perennial flow and those schemes without
assured irrigation. The rate is fixed according to the irrigation season
and the number of waterings. Charges for schemes with assured irrigation
are about 50% higher than charges for schemes without assured irrigation.
Water for I & M purposes is charged on a volumetric basis. In Orissa,
water rates are levied on a per-unit area basis and vary according to the
crop and the season, and charges are linked to the quality of irrigation
service. Sales taxes of 4% are levied on most agricultural produce,
excluding vegetables and sugarcane in both States.
58.     Revenues from water charges account for about 1% of the total
State income in'Bihar and Orissa. Both the States have budget deficits
and are anxious to maximize the revenues from irrigation and
irrigation-related charges. With respect to water for I & M, both
governments intend to charge users at least the full cost of producing and
supplying the water. GOO has recently reviewed irrigation charges (as
required under Credit 740-IN, see para 34) and increased them considerably
(by some 50% as recently as March 1982). Irrigation under that project
will start several years before the Subernarekha water becomes available
and the resolution of the charging issues will therefore precede the
requirements of the SIS in Orissa. GOB, for its part, has appointed a
high level committee to review water charges, with a view to raising same
at the earliest opportunity, and will submit the Committee's
recommendations to the Association shortly. GOB, in the fifth and sixth
years of the SIS (1987/88 and 1988/89) plans to conduct a systematic
review of the findings of the various studies mentioned below and the
experience with irrigation cost recovery elsewhere in order to determine
the most suitable irrigation charging system. Both governments intend, in
the context of this project, to adopt the principles of full 0 & M cost
recovery and of recovering a portion of the capital costs of minor
irrigation systems development. Such a commitment has not been easy. The
main constraints on both the level and the recovery rate of irrigation
charges in traditionally designed projects in both the States have been
the inequity and unreliability of the water supply, even in the schemes



-20-
supposedly having "assured irrigation". Since the water charges for a
given category of irrigation are uniform throughout each State, the
current level must be within the repayment capability of those farmers
realizing the lowest irrigation benefits (mostly tail-enders). Another
important factor is that irrigation charges are trad-^tionally regarded as
a tax rather than as payment for services, their level havin!g to be
approved by the Legislature and it is a sensitive political issue.
However, by the time irrigation begins in year seven there will be
considerable improvement in the state of knowledge of how to charge for
irrigation water. This will result largely from water studiles and reviews
conducted under Bank-supported projects in several States
(e.g. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala). The
0 & M studies referred to in para 56 above will also have been completed
and will determine the method of water allocation in each season, since
these will affect the method of both charging and recovering costs.
Finally, by full development of the SIS, the average net Income (in 1980
prices) per hectare of command area is projected to increase from the
present level of about Rs 900 to a level in excess of Rs 6,400 and the
improved design standards will minimize the difference between the fields
at the head and tail of the system. Therefore, there will be considerable
scope for increasing irrigation charges, especially if the method of
charging were to be changed so that irrigation charges irn modernly
designed projects are higher than those in traditionally designed
projects.
59.     In determining the project benefits discussed in para 60 below,
it is assumed that both GOB and GOO will gradually increase irrigation and
irrigation-related charges in the project area to reach a level of about
30% of the project rent by the tenth year.  It is also assumed that the
charge for I & M water will be at a level sufficient to cover full capital
and 0 & M costs. Based on these assumptions, the cost and rent recovery
indices have been estimated at 36% and 41% in Bihar, respectively, and
40% and 32% in Orissa, respectively.
Project Benefits and Economic Justification
60.     The entire SIS, at full development, would directly benefit some
130,000 rural families, would increase the irrigated area by 255,000 ha,
increase foodgrain production by 700,000 tons per year, generate farm
employment of some 138,000 jobs and 25,000 non-farm jobs, and moderate
flood damage at the rate of some Rs 18 million per year. Estimating the
impact of this project time-slice alone in economic terms would be
arbitrary and is not attempted, given that the time-slice covers only a
portion of the civil works construction period. The project will result
in a substantial reduction in the incidence of poverty. In Bihar, it is
expected that the number of families in the project area below the poverty
line will decrease from the present 80% to 25% and in Orissa, from 70% to
20%.
61.     The economic rate of return (ERR) for the entire SIS is estimated
at 17%, with estimated ERRs of 18% for the Bihar component and 16% for the
Orissa component. Sensitivity analyses of the basic components of the ERR
calculations show that only large deviations from the basic project
assumptions would make it economically non-viable. For example, a 70%



-21-
increase in total SIS costs or a 37% decrease in benefits would be
required to reduce the ERR to 12%. The sensitivity to the quality of the
minor systems development works is substantial, since this would determine
the capacity of the irrigation system to provide a reliable water supply.
However, the establishment of specialized training facilities, the
appointment of a special Superintending Engineer for the minor system
development and the establishment of pilot irrigation areas should ensure
adequate quality of the minor systems works. There is also a risk that
the rehabilitation of displaced families would encounter
greater-than-anticipated difficulties and delay implementation. However,
the measures to be taken under the project should minimize that risk.
Although the implications of either GOB or GOO not proceeding with the
full scope of project works after completion of this time-slice were
investigated, such risk is considered to be small since GOB is fully
committed to the development of the project area and is also under
pressure to increase water supply for I & M purposes. GOO, for its part,
is virtually compelled to complete its share of the works as soon as
possible in order to protect its water rights under the terms and
conditions of the TPA which have been written in such a way that, if GOO
fails to complete its share of the total SIS works, it relinquishes its
rights to water from the Subernarekha River System.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITIES
62.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
States of Bihar and Orissa, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
July 28, 1982






ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  1  of  5
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  70.0       110.0    240.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.2       152.5     194.4             448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      22.3              17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
POPUlATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3       166.6    200.6              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       307.8    362.8              355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9        42.7      40.2              36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.5        54.2      56.8              59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6         3.1       3.0               3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1               2.0                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3               3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.7         40.0      35.6              29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8         16.7      13.6              11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.7       2.4               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHEN)    ..        12.0      22.6              19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      99.0             108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6        90.4      88.8/c            97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.6        49.7      48.4/i            56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.2        14.8      13.1/i            20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     26.2        20.7      17.4              10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.2         48.1      51.8              57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          165.0       139.0    123.4               89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0              32.9                    32.0
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              70.7                    51.9
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0              22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0              18.1                    37.7
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4      4889.0   3630.6             3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5   5696.1             4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2178.7      1612.9    1311.0/e          1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                               ..          ..    362.3/e            301.3                   651.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  10432.8/e           5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                              2.6         2.8        ..
RURAL                              2.6         2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDI   IAL  INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGIHTED AVEGES
- MST RECENT ESTIMATE )I
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         73.0      78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0         90.0      92.0/?             101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0         56.0      63.0/i?             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0        26.0       27.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  30.0         36.0      36.0/?              63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0         15.0      17.0/?              41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0       0.7/f               1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRiMARY                             46.1        41.5       51.8/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                           16.0        20.9         ..               20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.4      36.0                52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.6         1.1        1.3/c              1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9        21.5       33.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0         0.0        1.0                3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1            4.1       3.7                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    30.7        32.5       31.8               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       13.2               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0      39.2                40.0                     38.5
MALE                                  57.0         52.4      51.8                51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                                27.3         26.9      25.9                23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1        1.1                1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/g    22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/f    49.4/*
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.77i      7.0/?
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27j    16.2/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     132.0              133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ,.     114.0              111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     178.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40.3               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ,.      50.7               51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c 1977; /d 1962; /e 1976; /f 1975; /Ij 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
ltflt5tTlOlS Ot tOil.51 lINeIATyOe
Notes:  Alnhoogh the, data are dess  tons Itots  enra   jtsdgnl the mos s-thotitati- and rehimblo. is ahoald tiso be sor.d that they sty tot ha Come-
nationally cmprble -ecld of the lockI of ,taodaedled defioslots end cocpt                    'd bY dtffneotoo-     t   ins I   1c colcing the data.  The data are  ne
th.1less,  _nfal to desosiha  tdce_  of _sgoitode, teitasor   ct,ds          chatactes te   eone  eojoo dii teteotese
Than  .neeoe oas.       r   1  th   a' tseyfe            fth   o               Yr onc  sad (2)Il . scoore  'goP nish somehat higher a--e Income thee she cos..try grasp
of,he  o  etoote   eoetfr 'ghIcm                        0 fopoeE.   s  gop ehron 'Middle boone North Afsic raad Middl.eh, Reef  lethses becus  of atreoge
nseooflthsea  aih. se).fttr  teseto   gspdsohargarepoPa1latto  weighted  eitheetio meson for each ledocate  end choirs only theeI- &-Vd."tIt
an hI ot oifots, ce_io.  ...c hre roecisd is r tlooo   soI gnof non cdoco  tosotr    hn  esae   n   nY casIn  to compsisg the -jlu  of
ARIA (tbonsood oITt  .)                                                                          Pocfcc  ecDnielNd-tte, hn  andmal-Poncc(ta.
tossl-ooslaorfaoarsaoonurtsitnlod  arosadcoiacdnsteen;cycoata.                  vhoo.aororat(dtldsdhpthcrrespoetnenyoieeofho_ttsnhrr'
forcos-       esrs    ckt  o   loe   adv   rs  lis fclI1a; 1979 dafa.                         hohtiase  caten.Ndpial ae  nthl.hhn ersaety-nice
tNt  lO CPItA(000  - lP po  coIesIc oss  tco n  ma-ga  Prices, cal-                        diel  ot  ardot leiaded.  tRsl hapitl   bon-et  Ie,sd  helt
clcdby sans r.o....c I    nto  ssnrl   oh           -ts   lztl-d   hosso); 1960,             soIecs   eteoot Peemenl   heta   p     hnoloOo                           r
1970, aod 190dr.ooriaanec.oec    swf,et)sihoielo-pabtsetcn
ENRGlY COVLt  5TIONPEO CoYIT-Acos           .....notpsln  of --osetll ronegy (coal                odcl  PoI   ar  ned  e  ositals i_lde of _da pIscplgoeibnla
and ligatit, yet-oj_.tces   o   o   ydc.e,ls  so  occcealtIt-cd tota -l.hospcls,I hlocatl.o  Jsoni tWHptO:   soidmedica   odmisnt
trt cy  I  Oicrnsof coa   eqtalo    pa  cPita; 1900, 1900. -d 1979                         cnes        cca   e    oecc   c   aladco   am    an
d icy                                                                                       ddaaosor  orcltd I  70cc1 toter of    - ediaiostoe .dtsb
frmhospitlsj dilded by ths octh"cb of teds....
focl.  Pcoslatioo. Ned-yea- tlo             A.s -O  of JnlY f: 0900. 1970 ..ad 19fO         HOUSING
UrbanPoecotio  (peroos  f coal)    conI  of  tcsscc toal ppolanoc;A~!, honehold co..misca of a gto..p of lodinidnals  J,. hbse  lining qosenore
doffeeoc   ellaliocsof -chn aen  may. afet -onparshiliap ofdtAo   hi  aomso hoerdee or -odae mapdc   -apea -h  nodrli
aogootI     1960.hO  1970. adibidd oss       I. biebl  hofndecld fess  oin                                                 opss
Wpoclatio- In yer0000 - luro-     oolain  penlcainn se-casddn  1900                           teo   ost   e  moe iadors,ndrclcnpied dr-oneo.tona
cos-l poPofonio  by al   adg      a-d  bi   -orflta  and feoi a   oen                        ning.rnetnl.Ielig   etdeopesnttatsnt-rasnd
soee lfoe  feeci st'y  eaeI ls  have. cheer local  Po.no  erf"ine in _                      ofe, fol  cro,  o  coral daeflg repcvly
f'rsl.t    c nit.c  loe ,P1levly  sod past Isma7fl Y-y planig  e pfssnc.-
no "fcI "Icy  itetc do foe  p-el.eocion yorponets.1,dfacd  ntll Ie Incios                                                 llg.Ip-i
ttIossc ooeclatinn ~ I-- in asta fano   d poollato   f      -Js i  no  eno_ soc_Pi rsho      oa.ml  a   eae-iosifl   eeedfml
tE,c hichtctis..      so thshdeahdvats, sd alsothe ageo seof   Irlire-                  EDCTONolnea   l   gna   h   esc   ena   ecose   tenaev
asr lo  .. tIIIar.  Thnn 0, achieved only often dorility rates d-acle  to                      :eomay nolool-age pnpolatisn; normalp noc1uden children agd 611
abs  _eplatneen  lanel of ..it -c rep-ndocci-e eats. oso each genanyenta hof adjossd for diffee-ot le-gahe of primacy e.dasoion  far
ear=edeefon  h   ao the     th   rjrcdroatettr   f she popnti-                                 shots soe-pila are belon on shon  the offlcial aebeol aIe.
Is she yea  20000, amd she Irat  of doclior of feecllity I.raen er Iplace-                  irodcyntnf-tta,ml and female - C.ep.ted aa shee; netod-cy
mant lens1.                                                                                   edscatoe        isa lat f-s peana of apprned primary isntenctiss:
tear  t.sen..sey tn..clasicn Os reached - The pie- ohm   scle    popolceics                      peneiden genra. Il     ascol.    c   ets  srioin          ctr ls  for yeile
Ifa  ilOl be reahed.                                                                          oso.lIyof 10 to ft peers ot age; ceropnes    orsen are genrally
Pe Mo a.-fid-ysar pspollaioo, Per oqasts kil-nen   (101 h-csre) of                   Vooaolerlmn   preto   eodee)-tccoalnisis
ana  ael 6tf  17  19   199  ot.lochods tehicl , ,ininca.a   oenpons   aihoprt   shpid
Per on. cm. agnicolcra  land -omposed as above far  gricoltocal land                    antlp cc asdpreon   iscrop  stefom
noly; 1960. 1973 sod 1979 dt.'                                                            Poi-ntnnac               omn , d  -stnd-a-no-tta  -tdestamelld
Popostnat tner  (--,ron) -Chifdtcn  (c-in pro-).  cria-so                      15-               prcasry and secadcIsy Icdoal  dtni8dd b   ahr       trean  h
bl4 ynes.)  and recited (Oh yosvn nod otto) so per-ragrtao  of mI-eepop-                        .....npoodio5 levels.
lac--  0960   1970, lod 1900 dons.                                                          Addlc I itd_er  nate (peret) - Litareteadnlts  (.sl ft cared and  eit.)
Popola Ioc ivoech Osto (mece)-ntl- Ano-i  roecl escts of taccl aid-                             Isoepeecdtorno   of tohl odoLt topointian sged 19 pesI.s sa ecns
Year popolation for 1950-hO, 1960-P,ad1970 -99.
lnasfr1950-hO. 19h0-70, sod 197f-8f.                                                  P       Inne Cars j(per; thoosaodppato)-Psnrecstcnie                       ta
Ced  irt  tare (o r ehnan)-Aconl line births per ha..o.ad of mid-teat                         cassefofls  chnsgtpesn    ntde  sncere.batrI
Crd ''            P!t-,paplanian; 1960. 1970. ad 1900 dat.ralise   vehilcle.
Crode Death Fot  leer  htoonsd) - -on-I destba pet thon.o.d  of ntd-yeso                      Rsdio teceive, (pe  abousood o lrolano).- Alltypes of recelI,tr  far radio
ppistin; 1960, 1910, and 1990 data.                                                        benadtsts t  genera  pail  pe  alnoasado npopaintio; esolsdeso-
h:rono .. dsrocoton hate-Overage n-b-o of do~g~hter a. naa ill bear In                          li-ee-d eecotrr  idcoae  and  Iays  de  regintesha  o  rdO
be -omlrp-od-ti- period if ehrprocs  onn   i-sri                        e-tes  wa  Ia efert; dots far recct  eer  aaeyst pco                             .ble a.lto
oilt lay rtes: ns al. ly 0 l--year ave.ron  etdicg i. 1969. 0970. and 1900.f                    ontoon icle  abolished literelog.
Pamilv pls.nole- Aoeacrsdons  thsad) - Anocol sosb- of  Icedr                                  f  ervr  fe   hosdprlsso      f  eerr   o  hroedcest to
ofbit-otodeca  cee   apcoornros   oilt PIl...nog pecra.                              ~         gess   aIcoprtho d popoita;ealdssa  cae  fTV reosOen
Peonl   Plnen-leI peceol of macvied s o    P- Prr.stsgs of sorrted                               Indsteess   to  year I he s1  eghetranton of 'TV arcs ma .i effeos.
wmnochild-ero   oE. (i5-4a years) sOnco  birth-oooeroi  droice.n                       Neespare  ncosco(per thoosod popolatla) - Sh-e the averge car-
all macsled s-e  it sam  ago, goop.                                                           cliof n  "nilfy D-rynes  laenssooaycn,                  de~ibodsIaIPnerIdtI
pnhlirstiae drooted primaroly so recordlorg generaIl nos. ita cane=deced
FOOD elm ItooTtos                                                                                 toho'dsiy' it it opo 'it beet  no  tImes,    ek
fae o   oo ed ocnin pe  Cano (9h,9.7fml00)O  - Iodes nof pee ca phl to sta                    COef.    Aosl teaddao  PerCpfaprterDtdastenero
pedcinof n,J food  _nseoditt I. todoc    -cldes sesa sod feed and                        tickets sold darhag cbs year. llldint odmiseiv.n to avin-lo. ci_mu
instead of  haa)  tich ar  edible an1d totsinntnleot  (e.g. cffe  od
traseroc.ladad).  Aggregane prodoctino of eah covacy Is hosedIdenLfABOR FORCE
naioa   soeag  prodo.e. pric  metghsI; 1960-659, t70S,an  19ff data,                   TtotlLabor farce (thoasards) - tc-o-mO-aly soit p. son...             oio
Pee dIp.c  ."J,l of calorino (poeccot of reigotetnnc) - Campacod fros,                          ar_I forces enddoepor   o   nldo    osoos   ndsm   a
nor-gy eqati-l-ta of Ist food soppllea available coc.cclly pro c'pIt,                         covriagposao   of all ages.  Defioltions  in  -nrion ... o-rits .o
Per day.   oloi  ao- eiescbaensedmeati,, prod-rcio.,                     I...ses              not romesrbfe )1900, 1070 sod 19ff dots.
eparts. and changes it scak.  Net snppl ins toolade animal feed, seds,                       femal (percent  - PeFeIaI              area   eretgeo   otlOb t"trt.
qsssticl-sosed to fond peoconaing. sod Idanns  odInscboron.beon-                              Aciotc   prst      .brfore to (amn,freep.otn   s
ents were  -ni-acd by faf based on yhysiolgicsl credo foe normal scsi-                          fishnng as percencge of total'.b-e force; 1960. 19700and beD'O data.
ciopandbealo cc'sdertg ocirveonal  oapratoe,  odyseigta,ageIllsty (percet) - Labo  farc  to                           tofg   cnatrofe, atfetr
sdsodh-iarecotco   of poptlsriac.sosleh51pocsfrnat  at                                       sod o.,looraiy, not    odga  Onpocotf  ef coss Mobosirr
hoasebold bevel; 1961-hI5. 1970) ad 1971 dcs.                                                   1910 . 1,70 san  1990 Iana.
factspdt- sacrlvo  fr       IIh (arson per day) - yroteio ...aIsor of Pee ropito              f~r   Po etc(pevra)  - ntol, enle, and femla - Pcrttripetioo or
net nppy of toad, yen day.  Nec oypiy of fond In defitod so ahne.  Or-                        accinicyr-t- ate toepoed as nocal, male, sod feal  abon fnccea
ormvnfoe all cooctrie- eosblnshed by ISDAIproide for son.ios                            p--coagn of total, male and femafe popolatiooodlh               arrptiep
'llos..c.s of69 Erten of cco  0rote pI       c day ro  00 ocan  ot moina  ad                  1960. 1970D  ack 19t0 dais.  th-oseat  hosed oc iLO1     atltpalo   aia
polo- plronely  of shioh 10 gr-m  sh-ld he animal protaII.  Theat stand-                       reflecting ag-o   t tr  of the popoisthon, asd Intl tIme trend,A
erds sea 1-ne      - tha   hoad of P5 gramo of notal protein, asd 23 grsma of                 foe e-tit-s ore from oatiatn  -oortec.
sn ivl protis a on sot--e fo,rthe  -or. propose.d b, PAP ho the ThIed                       Oc-oost  Drpend-oy Ratio - F.".c of  .popnlaiao sder 15 and 65 sod nose
ann   red  torep;19h1-i5, 1970 -d 1907 dta,                                                   no she ceta  1ahb- force
Per carcos PIo.... ..pplI froman.    o .. ed ps- P-otio supply of food dr-
Ioef from  -oimalt sed polsen in grom..  pea day, 1961-69. 1970 and 1977 data.            fINCOME tISTRIBiTlOD
mhild (ages 1-4) heath Ease (per 5b-co..d( - Ann...l d-hct  Par thoa...od lv                  Percenngt o  Private  Ooe.  boho  In cath .n  kild) - Retelend by eIf.nI
age genop I0-Ayprop, so chldeso hr this age  fro. fo  mcc developlg  oc-                         prcet, ,richet 0  p02 co       p..p..vet 20 perooct, cod ponees 4O Portsr
anion dataIdIir-d froa lifo  cabirol 1910, 1970 sod 0960 date,                                of ho...eholdn.
HOTif7                                                                                         POVEiDYb TARGEf  GRIOUPS
Life Onr  acoa   tth (yo.. -) Average conbor of pears of life roaciatndtefolwng                                   renen   ore  _sy appol-erto   sot  of poerny leonin,
asbleah;90 1 970ad 191 dIo.cd shoald be lo-epreted mish  oIdrinotor
fofos totltaiy hale (per rh-oo..d) - I-onoldeaths of ta ats cedar oe yea                      intimated Ahbloe ot ts  Inom   L-ne1  US$yp~po -P1                ehen sad road1 -
vi nrpeatouadlive births1  1960,  90sd101  dots.                                            Pa-slot  pversy nocome beve  is thet incom letor  baton  hibts a nbnonI
Accesaso Daft inne  (percen  of pplca)- total, orhan, sad rocaf - No-                            noritio...oly adeqons  dies PIse  -netn   o-f.ond t           emssIs sot
natoenoch an tha t (ens proetahvhln   tis. sd onnitay selli) on                               Enrl   sitv Onaio-Ccoo  lana  is o-thn.nd of  vesas  ret capIta
p  _cecgen of rbnlr_se.iepplton    snra   are  a psblnc                                     peeoa  booII       of tbh. ncY.  trbsI1-os  It derived fie the cr.rd
f-tossb  or standpoint locat ed tot moe   2be  0  scone  i         IIIhoom   maybeIoalith adjosIset for hithno cost of lIv,ing ho nob a   om
oneaidered as beiag nithin r...n..abir oco- of tbaI house   . feral areas                   Es1timatdPy ulto    sn   hooePvrt  aoeie    pret       rn
rsaoahie access  -ond isply Ihea the hoconefo or -eb-e  of she hoaneboldod-era -..    PWernt.  .poplatho    C-r,os sodmel  she are
do nor have an soad a dln-tan-icoct  porn of tho dsp  Is fetching she                         yn-r 
Pomily' seesa needs.
ysrctpsc   Dbel arnpv fts poyfac. . .o..                    lsoa   aycold
an  a......-sae  br aster-hoIrn    ttasor she onle ofPOt PrIies sad sIs
Popoieinorev Pysicar -Populotio, di,idod by oshe  n orf    c pl-tltg phyal-                                                  Occci  nod Sacta1 Dat  Dniio
o ioa qolafod frn a  edicl1 school ascoron -      l-ori 5 --1                                                          fEoo-lo    ly..sal  sa  Pajrc-to-s Dloyaroso
P_rniotto  pnr N--tn  Pocroc-  rPo--t- dOlvdad by snhco  poioho                                                                                  rely 1900
corni-gIlloll-atheId



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONlOIC DEVELOPMENT bATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 240
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 -                                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTh (2, constant srices)
US$ Bln.       7                1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-197980
GNP at Market Prices                 159.37      100.0                     3.7                3.6                                    2.9               4.1
Gross Dorestic Investeent              38.46       24.1
Gross National Saving                  35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance               -3.16       -2.0
.JLTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force  if              V.A. Per Worker
0S$ BIn.             %              MNl.        %                  US$        2 of National Average
Agricult-.                             39.8            39.6             180.6      70.7                220               56
Industry                              25.2            25.1               32.2      12.6                783             199
Services                              35.5            35.3               42.6      16.7                833             211
Total/Average                        100.5            160.0             737W      10T=                 Z               1TM
f.DVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government        e/                                       Central Government
RV. Bin.         7. of GDP                                         Re. Bln.           7. of GDP
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77-1980/81                                  1980/81    1990/81   1976177-1980/81
Current Receipts                   238.19      19.0         19.1                                       125.41       10.N           10.6
Current Ependitores                238.93      19.0          8.0                                       133.29       1';-           10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             -0.74      -0.1           .1                                       - 7.88      - I.t           N.S.
Capital Expenditrres  f/           107.35       8.5          -.6                                        79.99        6.4            5.4
Internat   Assistance (net) d/      12.86       1.0          1.0
MONEY, .rJ17 AND PRICES            1970/71    1974/75    1675/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978I 79    1979/80    1980/81    February 19S.!  F.bruur-, t982
(Es Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Qoosi Money               109.8       194.6       223.2       273.2       329.1       398.6       467.9       553.1         536.13           615.53
Bank Credit to Govern-ent (net)    54.6          95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0       258.1        238.22            292.18
Bank Credit to Co-nercial Sector   64.6         126.5       153.7       185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3       363.2        349.03            422.15
(Percent-ge or Index Numbers)                                                    Asril-Feb 1980/81  Aprl l-Feb  1981/8
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP  27.3           28.0       30.1        33.9        40.8        40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholenale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0       174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8       185.8      217.6       257.0          255.9                   280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7        25.2       -1.1         2.1         5.2         -          17.1        18.1           18.4                     9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0           9.2         2.7        21.0        15.9        18.3        23.8        28.4           28.6 S/                 23.7 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4           18.2       21.5        20.4        14.6        19.5        20.8        18.6           16.6 /                  20.9 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atla, 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average eschange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organicatton.
c/ Computed fro. trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent vith official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
E/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
h/  Percentage change from end-FPbruary, 1981 to esd-February 1982.
i/ Total Labor Furee ond percentage breakdown fron Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexurc Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
3ALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1978/79      1979/80     1980/81    _981/82  i/    MERCGANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
US $                                                                                                                 UlS.)  OS  Mln.  7
ixports of Goods                   6,978        7,998       9,504       8,700           Engineering Goods               908         12
imports of Goods                  -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000               Tea                             506          7
Trade Balance                      -1,541      -3,304    - 7.334      - 7,300            Gems                           403           5
NFS (net)                             717       1,100         722          915           Clothing                       501           7
Leather and Leather
lesource Balance                    - 824      -2,204    - 6,612    - 6385                  Products                    457           6
Jute Manufactures              303           4
[nterest Income (net) '/               14         196         370          212          Iron Ore                        321          4
qet Transfers   1/                 1,185        1,577       3,079       1,840           Cotton Textiles                 316          4
Sugar                          102 
3alance on Current Account            375       - 431      -3.163      -4,333           Others                       3,541          48
Official Aid                                                                             Total                        7,448        100
Disbursements                   1,695        1,738      2,337        2,724   /       EXTERINAL DEBT. MARCH 31, 1981
Amortization                    - 702       - 608       - 707        - 659                                                  USS billion
Tramns.ct,ons with IMF              - 158         -         1,035         690           Outstanding and Disbursed                    17.2
ckll Other Items                      265       - 475         147       - 797            Undisbur3ed                                  7.5
OutstandIng, including                      24.7
:[ncrease in Reserves (-)         -1,475        - 224         351       2,375                Undisbhrsed
Gross Reserves (end year) P/        7,357       7,579       7,228       4,853
let Reserves   (end year)nm/    7.357          7,579       6,901        3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81  J / _n   11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                              IBRD/1DA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1981
[mports  (Petroleum)               2,043       4,045        6,657       6,075                                              -  US$ million
IBRD3        IDA
xmports                               24           26         33         n.a
Outstanding and Disbursed          984          5646
Undisbursed                        880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                  1864          L0280
{ATE OF EXCHANGE
.[une 1966 to mid-December 1971           1US1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
liid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980                US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - USS0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981                US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
J/  Estimated.
/  Figuree given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
-/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
o/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
X. Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
" /  Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
E   Including gold.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank             IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
Loans/                                                1,516.0
73 Credits fully disbursed                                   -            4,315.4
342--IN    1973     Education                                               12.0           1.70
456-KIN    1974     HP Apple Proc. & Marketing               -              13.0            1.15
1011--IN    1974     Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                52.0              -             8.38
4.82--IN    1974    Karnataka Dairy                         -               30.0          15.1.9
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                     -              83.0           27.24
521--IN    1975     Rajasthan Dairy                          -              27.7          10.71
522--IN    1975     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                    -               16.4           2.41
585--IN    1976     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply              -               40.0          12.40
598--IN    1976     Fertilizer Industry                     -              105.0          12.71
604-IN     1976     Power Transmission IV                   -              150.0          34.t)0
509-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.            -               4.0            1.30
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development           -               18.0           9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation             145.0              -            68.27
1260--IN    1976     IDBI II                                40.0              -             8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                       25.0              -            20,90
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                  80.0              -            11.52
1335--IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport                 25.0              -             6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Developnent               -              30.0           20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development               -              20.0            5.82
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                 -              150.0          19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development                -              24.0            0.10
690--IN    1977     WB Agric. Extension & Research          -               12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                      14.0             -              6.57
712--IN    1977     M.P. Agric. Development                 -               10.0           4.40
720--IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation               -              23.0           12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cance:Llations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank          IDA 1/       Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -               Si)           5.18
736-IN    1978     Maharashtra Irrigation                 -              70.0         23.76
737-IN    1978     Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -              13.0          3.43
740-IN    1978     Orissa Irrigation                      -              58.0         21.29
1475-IN    1978     Industry DFC XII                      78.5                          4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -             107.0         75.63
756-IN    1978     Calcutta Urban Development II          -             87.0          16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -               8.0          6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0            -            10.04
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0             -           38.55
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                   -             117.6         70.93
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                    -             200.0         90.86
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -              14.0         12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -              85.0         56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -              17.5         12.48
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                      -              16.0         13.74
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII               120.0            -            43.46
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                         -             150.0        112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -             196.0        181.19
843-IN    1979     Haryana Irrigation                     -             111.0         27.64
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -            190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -             38.0          15.56
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research         -              27.0         24.01
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -                25.0          14.95
871-IN    1979     NCDC                                   -             30.0          15.14
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0            -            50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power               -            200,0         135.20
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -             129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply               -             48,0          35.25
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II         -            175.0          59.52
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -             23.0          14.63
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                       -             20.0          19.22
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II              -            210.0         155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Appro-val        Purpose                         Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -               37.0          26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                           -              46..0         44.73
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -               32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                          -              18.0          14.05
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -              175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                    -             300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -               22.0          20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension           -              10.0           9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -               56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                   -              54.0          51.69
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                         -              80.0          73.53
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0              -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0              -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -              225.0         199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0             -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0              -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -               35.0          34.20
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                       -              83.0          80.70
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -               42.0          42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                  -             140.0         140.00
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -              314.0         267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation               -              54.0          54.00
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -             400.0          387.90
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -               23.0          23.00
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -               28.0          28.00
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -               37.0          37.00
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -             125.0         124.30



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loar or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -               400.0         400.00
1177-IN*   1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -             220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -           100.00
1178-IN*   1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -              29.0          29.00
1185-IN*   1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -               25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0             -           150.00
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0                          300.00
2095-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                              190.0             -           190.00
1209-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                               -              160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -               6.0            6.00
Total                                    3,570.5         10,632.6
of which has been repaid                1,137.4            94.7
Total now outstanding                     2,433.1        10,537.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,062.1         4,192.2
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented tc, the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX I I
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0         1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        0.9       8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                   28.0         -       28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                           40.0         2.6     42.6
Repaid                         24.5         -       24.5
Cancelled                      6.2         1.3       7.5
Now Held                       94.0        7.9    101.9
Undisbursed                    84.9        1.4      86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been prozeeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan o' July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981;  Closing; Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which. often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed. Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved.  Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8. 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; IJS$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31  187
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in trhe Government'c
program for the development of large central r:hermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid.  Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedcule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifacations for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in CcLstoms duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems. Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound.  Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
tion well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 109. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, *1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18. 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed.  All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been substantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceedinig satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; JS$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area. For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being handled satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of the implement-
ing agencies continue, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly. All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Thlird Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,176; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project iin
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US,8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 milion credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095 A ricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project. GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as a result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets. Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level,



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met. Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976, Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
socio-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but the staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 1.8, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily.  In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following- the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in, the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory. Detailed designs for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection for popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and constructionL materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million, credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule. Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SUBERNAREKHA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
1 1/2 years
(b) The agencies which have prepared the project
Governments of Bihar and Orissa through Water and Power
Development Consultancy Services.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first mission to consider the project
August 1981, November 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November/December 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
July 8, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1982
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOB and GOO would formulate rehabilitation plans for
the resettlement of inhabitants of lands to be sub-
merged under the Project (para 40);
(b) GOB would provide a road development plan (para 42);
(c) GOB would implement a Training and Visit agricultural
extension service for the farmers in the project area
in Bihar (para 45);
(d) GOB and GOO would complete the entire SIS as soon as
technically and financially feasible (para 47);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) GOB would establish, within the Irrigation Department:
(i) a Subernarekha Project Unit (SPU);
(ii) a Subernarekha Research Cell within the Central
Design Organization; and,
(iii) a Planning and Monitoring Cell (para 53); and,
(f) GOB and GOO would undertake operations and maintenance
studies to establish rules, procedures and require-
ments for effective management and preventative main-
tenance of the water distribution systems (para 56).



r~~~~~~>FA \            enu [UA   |~                   ..,                                                                                                                                                                A?RI~I8
|   A-  .                    0-                                                                                                        0  .  , > \    EMA     
.n  p  ,  .   I/S R  QAN4GL^D                                                                                                                     N  D I 
I '~ <-1 N D />A                               .7sWES.,,5,  |   /-   /  W E S T          B E N G A L                                        SUBERNAREKHA  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
-1ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.  e.l Ah0S5".    I   ,<- \.  /'"hvo   T r\W/\-
V   tg    v @   scz o s:   |               9                                         /             >             -                  \    *              - _                        t~~~___  Ao  p
:   {7-:X:''                                  JA M ShooEDa
0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kp
0       R        I                     . '    "'
0 trolke;< /5,) /osavvvv ~~~~~PROPOSED                                           EXISTINJG d\~\
/   .1   =pE Doms on~~~~~~~D-                            d  R--,rols 1-rrg--w Are-8  Bisg\\   
D- -   ,,r P,ot,ouo   ......Bou ,es
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D b,  '
nt   l\  rr  1>Xz 4 1s >|9 eX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.                                                ,   <  7>- -  IN.ena1                                                       B.[.res?? qf 
. ______ _ ._ ._   __.



