OF CA L       CREDIT NUMBER 1289 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Subernarekha Irrigation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1289 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       07/e                    , 1982, between
India acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION      (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Bihar
(hereinafter called Bihar), and the State of Orissa (hereinafter
called Orissa) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Bihar      and
Orissa the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Asscciation has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association and Bihar
and Orissa;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective   meanings   therein  set   forth   and  the   following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association and Bihar and Orissa of even date herewith, as the


﻿- 2-
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Project Area" means the area commanded by the canal
system of the Ichha and Chandil Dams and the Galudih and Kharkai
Barrages;
(c)  "Tripartite Agreement" means the Tripartite Agreement
of the Utilization of the Water Resources of Subernarekha-Kharkai
Basin, dated August 7, 1978, between Bihar, Orissa and the State
of West Bengal;
(d) "SIS" means the Subernarekha Irrigation System, a
multiphase program for the construction and development of the
irrigation system in the Subernarekha-Kharkai Basin in accordance
with the Tripartite Agreement; and
(e)  "Minor Distribution Systems" means the part of the
canal system below the distributory levels having a capacity up
to 1.5 cubic meter per second.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixteen million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 116,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrowpr and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-3-
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time *to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Coimitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1993, and ending
August 1, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause Bihar and Orissa to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all their
respective obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable Bihar and Orissa to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Bihar and Orissa in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Bihar or Orissa shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Bihar
or Orissa will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement; and
(c) the Tripartite Agreement shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and
adversely affect the timely execution or the operation of the
Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-5-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and Bihar or Orissa, as the case may
be; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Bihar and Orissa, and is
legally binding upon Bihar and Orissa in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.02. The date   7i  -2                    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sectn 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section  5.03. The provisions    of  Section  4.02 of    this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿.7-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Aut orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                 80%
(a) Chandil Dam and       50,800,000
Left Canal
(b) Galudih Barrage       19,200,000
and Canals
(c) Ichha Dam and         20,600,000
Canals
(d) Kharkai Canals         3,700,000
(e) Minor Distribution     3,700,000
Systems
(2) Equipment, material         9,200,000        100% of foreign
and vehicles                                expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-fac tory)
and 70% of
other local
expenditures
(3) Pilot areas, research,         900,000       99%
studies, and monitor-
ing and evaluation


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Training, including          1,800,000       99%
infrastructural
facilities
(5) Unallocated                  6,400,000
TOTAL        116,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $6,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1981.


﻿- 10 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures  in   order  that  further withdrawals   under   such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the first phase (1982-1986) of the
implementation of the SIS. The Project consists of the following.
Parts:
Part A:
Construction works on the (i) Chandil Dam and Left Canal;
(ii) the Galudih Barrage and Canals; (iii) Ichha Dam and Canals;
and (iv) the Kharkai Canals.
Part B:
Construction works on the Minor Distribution Systems in an
area of about 21,000 ha in the Project Area in Bihar.
Part C:
Establishment of: (i) pilot irrigation areas of about 250 .ha
each in Bihar and Orissa in the Project Area; (ii) facilities in
Khagaul in Bihar and in Sambalpur in Orissa for training in
development of Minor Distribution Systems and in Water Management
techniques.
Part D:
Establishment of a water pollution control program in the
Project Area in Bihar.
Part E:
Research, studies, and monitoring and evaluation.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


