FK  CREDIT NUMBER 1289 IN
Project Agreement
(Subernarekha Irrigation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF BIHAR
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated        r&,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1289 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated '4           4                , 1982, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the STATE OF BIHAR, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Bihar) and the STATE OF ORISSA, acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called Orissa).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixteen million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 116,300,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that Bihar and Orissa agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS Bihar and Orissa, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Bihar shall carry out in its territory
Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement; and Orissa shall carry out in
its territory Parts A (ii), C and E of the Project; all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural


﻿-2-
practices; and Bihar and Orissa shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services or
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Bihar and Orissa shall within the framework of the
Tripartite Agreement maintain the institutional arrangements for
the execution and operation of the facilities included under Part
A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Bihar and Orissa each undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by it to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Bihar and Orissa shall each cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made avail-
able to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the pur-
poses of the Project.
Section 2.04 (a) Bihar and Orissa shall each furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and pro-
curement schedules for the Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Bihar and Orissa shall each: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Parts of the Project for which it is responsible (including their
cost and the benefits to be derived from them), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to


﻿-3-
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Bihar or Orissa of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to wh-m the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completio:- of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Bihar and
the Association, Bihar shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by Bihar and Orissa and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) Orissa shall assist Bihar in the preparation of the
report referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section.
Section 2.05. (a) Bihar and Orissa shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agr;-ement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Bihar and Orissa shall each promptly inform the Asso-
ciation of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Bihar shall by December 31, 1982 establish,
and  thereafter   maintain,   in  its  Irrigation   Department   a
Subernarekha Research Cell and a Subernarekha Project Unit,
including a Planning and Monitoring Cell and a Minor Distribution


﻿-4-
Systems Planning and Design Cell, whose staffing structure and
responsibilities shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 2.07. Bihar and Orissa shall each: (i) by Decem-
ber 31, 1982 prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review and comments a detailed plan for the establishment of the
training facilities referred to in Part C (ii) of the Project;
and (ii) by September 30, 1983 establish such facilities in
accordance with the said plan as agreed with the Association.
Section 2.08. Bihar and Orissa shall each: (i) by Decem-
ber 31, 1982, prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review and comments the terms of reference for an irrigation
system operation and maintenance study; (ii) by December 31, 1983
carry out said study as agreed with the Association; and (iii)
utilize the recommendations of the study in formulating the
operation and maintenance estimates and procedures for subsequent
implementation of the Project.
Section 2.09. Bihar shall complete by December 31, 1983 an
irrigation system improvement study and by December 31, 1984 a
socio-economic base-line survey in the Project Area in Bihar
under terms of reference agreed with the Association.
Section 2.10. Bihar shall: (i) by December 31, 1983 estab-
lish, and thereafter maintain, a pollution control and monitoring
program for the Project Area in Bihar, which will be carried out
in a manner agreed with the Association; and (ii) introduce
mandatory requirements for authorization by its State Water
Pollution Control and Prevention Board for supply of water to
industries from the facilities included under the Project in
Bihar.
Section 2.11. (a) Bihar shall: (i) by December 31, 1982 con-
stitute and thereafter maintain, a panel of experts with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the
Association and Bihar, to review the adequacy of the plans and
design of the dams included in the Project and their associated
structures; and (ii) cause said panel to conduct periodic reviews
during design and construction of such dams to examine whether
there is any need for making changes in the design of such dams.
(b) Bihar shall under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association and Bihar cause the dams and the related structures
constructed under the Project to be periodically inspected in


﻿-5-
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance of
methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety.   To this end, Bihar shall propose to the Association
appropriate arrangements for the Association's review not later
than one year before the expected completion of such structures.
Section 2.12. Orissa shall by December 31, 1984 prepare an
irrigation and drainage master plan for the Project Area in
Orissa under terms of reference agreed with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Bihar shall: (i) by December 31, 1982 prepare
and furnish to the Association a plan for the development in
Bihar of the roads required for the purposes of the Project
during the Project implementation period; (ii) execute such a
plan  in  coordination  with   the  progress  of  the   irrigation
development works under the Project; and (iii) by December 31,
1984 prepare a comprehensive road development plan for the entire
part of the Project area located in Bihar.
Section 3.02. Bihar shall: (i) by December 31, 1983 commence
an on-going evaluation of its rehabilitation activities under
terms of reference agreed with the Association; and (ii) not less
than two years before causing submergence of any land located in
the SIS in Bihar, formulate a rehabilitation plan, including an
implementation schedule, agreed with the Association.
Section 3.03. Bihar and Orissa shall each at all times cause
the facilities included in the Project and the equipment and
machinery required for their operation, to be operated, main-
tained, renewed and repaired in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds required for this purpose.
Section 3.04. Bihar shall by April 1, 1984 implement a
Training and Visit agricultural extension system for farmers in
the Project Area located in Bihar.
Section 3.05. Orissa shall not less than two years before
causing submergence of any land in the SIS in Orissa: (i)


﻿-6-
constitute a Rehabilitation Committee; and (ii) formulate a
rehabilitation plar, including an implementation schedule, agreed
with the Association.
Section 3.06. Bihar and Orissa undertake to continue, after
the completion of the Project, the development of the SIS and
complete said development as soon as it is technically and finan-
cially feasible to do so.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Bihar and Orissa shall each cause their
respective   departments  and  other   agencies  and   authorities
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to:
(i) maintain separate records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting principles and procedures consistently
applied, its resources, expenditures and operation related to the
Project; and (ii) furnish to the Association copies of its
accounts and financial statements related to the Project for each
fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon as
available but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of such year.
Section 4.02. Bihar and Orissa shall each cause their res-
pective departments and other agencies and authorities responsi-
ble for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements related to the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association
immediately following its finalization the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish or
cause to be furnished, to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and records, financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Bihar and Orissa thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Bihar and Orissa of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Bihar:
Commissioner and Secretary to the Government
of Bihar,
Irrigation Department
Patna 800001
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Patna, India
For Orissa:
Commissioner and Secretary to the
Government of Orissa
Irrigation and Power Department
Bhubaneswar, Orissa 765001
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Bhubaneswar, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Bihar or Orissa may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Bihar or Orissa, respec-
tively, or such other person or persons as the Government of
Bihar or Orissa, respectively, shall designate in writing, and
Bihar and Orissa shall furnish to the Association sufficient


﻿- 9 -
evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated  specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
countjrparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively shall form but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF BIHAR
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF ORISSA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Bihar and Orissa, as the case
shall require, shall prepare and forward to the Association as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be,
a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and con-
taining such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. Bihar or Orissa, as the case may be, shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of Bihar or Orissa, as the case may be,
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in India equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 12 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Bihar and Orissa may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Bihar or
Orissa, as the case may be, responsive bids will be classified
into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000
or less per contract may be procured on the basis of competitive


﻿- 13 -
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association, provided, however, that: (i) where
such competitive bidding is not possible such civil works may be
carried out through piecework contracts; and (ii) when required
by safety and quality considerations or when quantities cannot be
estimated in advance with sufficient precision, such civil works
may be carried out on force account subject to the condition,
however, that the aggregate cost of civil works carried out
through piecework contracts and on force account shall not exceed
fifteen percent of the total cost of the civil works.
2.   Contracts for light equipment and vehicles may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more or for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Association shall be
furnished, for its comments, with the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and such modifications shall be made in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, but before
a final decision on the award is made, the Association shall be
informed of the name of the bidder to which it is intended to
award the contract and shall be furnished, in sufficient time for
its review, with a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Bihar or Orissa, as
the case may require, and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


﻿- 14 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Association shall be furnished, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, with two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Bihar or
Orissa, as the case may require, and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Bihar or Orissa, as the case
may be, shall inform the Association of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform Bihar or Orissa, as the case may require, and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate a;xd affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of J       ,
198 2
FOR SECRETARY


