Document of                            CO LE  py
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3097-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
June 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00 = DH5.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE     Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CCG      Caisse Centrale de Garantie
CMPE     Centre Marocain de Promotion des Exportations
EEC      European Economic Community
EIB      European Investment Bank
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
ITC      International Trade Center
ODI      Office pour le Developpement Industriel
SSI      Small Scale Industry
TAU      Technical Assistance Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;         The Kingdom of Morocco.
Beneficiaries:   Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement Economique (BNDE) and
commercial banks in Morocco.
Amount:           US$70 million equivalent.
Terms:            Fixed repayment over 15 years, including four years of grace,
at an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms: The proceeds of the loan will be onlent by the Government to
BNDE and other commercial banks at 8 percent interest. The
latter will in turn onlend to small scale industries (SSI's)
at an effective rate of 10 percent. Subloans will have a
maximum repayment period of 12 years including 3 years of
grace.
Project           The project consists of a line of credit to BNDE and
Description:      commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSls); and of related technical assistance and studies. The
loan will create industrial employment at costs substantially
below those in industry in general, provide resources to
small entrepreneurs who would otherwise face difficulty in
securing sufficient financing, provide technical assistance
to potential and existing SSIs, and develop new small
enterprises or expand existing ones to complement larger
industries. The loan is expected to cover some 600 firms, and
create about 15,000 jobs, at an average cost of about
$9,500 per job, or about one-fourth of the average cost per
job in manufacturing industry in general. The loan will also
help finance 96 man-months of technical assistance to SSI's
through a specialized unit, at an estimated $8,600 per
man-month, including subsistance and international travel.
Finally, provision is made for 18 man-months of consultants'
time at $10,000 per man-month (including subsistence and
international travel), for studies to review the existing
policy and incentive systems relating to SSIs and to make
recommendations for changes to foster efficient SSI
development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursements:                                 $ Million
Bank FY       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual:       1,330  12,880  26,950  21,280   7,560
Cumulative:  1,330  14,210  41,160  62,440  70,000
Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 3502-MOR, dated June 10, 1981



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed second
loan to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$70.0 million to
finance small-scale industry (SSI) development. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
Most of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to project beneficiaries
through financial intermediaires for up to 12 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at prevailing rates for industry in Morocco. The loan
will also finance the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance provided
by the Government to small-scale industries, and of studies relating to the
structure of incentives for SSIs.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both in
irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean coastlines
offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's largest and
most easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a
key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc
are also exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants
satisfy only a small part of the country's energy requirements, which are
essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has however uranium and oil shale
resources which it plans to exploit. In addition, Morocco's proximity to
Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco. GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. Growth accelerated somewhat under the
1968-72 development plan as the economy derived substantial momentum from
1/ This part is an updated version of Part I of President's Report No.
P3061-MOR of May 6, 1981 on a proposed loan for a Third Water Supply
Project.



-2-
exports. However, a relatively weak savings effort and a small externally
financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share of resources
allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with no major
financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity. Although some
industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force was employed
in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector, and primary
products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with phosphates
representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  The 1973-77
Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as well as an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, the original plan
strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings effort and the
development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled. As a result of this
windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and budgetary receipts rose
by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the petroleum import bill also
quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in
surplus. The plan's concern for exports and savings lost some of its urgency,
and the Government launched a massive public investment program which brought
about a sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy and a
considerable increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share
in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to 39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stimulated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was led
by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern of
investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure more than the
productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry, agriculture
and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize import
substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created strong
pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget. While
investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in 1977,
gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of GDP in
1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in 1976-77.  The
large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an unsustainable 20%



-3-
of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the gaps, Morocco
borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which led to rapid
increases in external debt and the debt service burden. By the end of 1977,
external debt outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt service ratio
rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977, and
18.5% in 1978.
9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Total
budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977, in
response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large scale
public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase in
defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara, and
the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs (particularly
education). As a result, the Government's overall budget deficit increased
sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and 1977. The
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the period led to
some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was largely allowed
to spill over into the external sector.
Recent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These measures of fiscal
restraint were combined with tight credit policies and stringent import
controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined to about 12% of
GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978. Since then,
however, the stabilization program encountered a number of obstacles,
including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise in interest on
the commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to some relaxation
of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978. Although the economy
continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by 1980 both fiscal and
external imbalances were still substantial. The resource gap (in current
prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio of the overall budget
deficit to GDP at about 11%.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current



-4-
expenditure accelerated to 16% of GDP in 1979 and 22% in 1980. Substantial
increases in domestic prices of food and petroleum products in late 1980 and
early 1981 should now make it possible to contain consumption subsidies in
1981. With the help of economies in other areas, the Government's plan is to
hold the growth of current outlays in 1981 to 11%, above the 1980 level.
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and 1980 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400
million in 1977 to $1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest
payments by about $350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account
deficit was reduced from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4
billion, or 8% of GDP, in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed
considerably during the period. However, the absolute level of gross external
capital requirements rose because of growing amortization payments on
medium-term commercial credits contracted earlier and the rise in the interest
rate on these credits in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growth dropped to about 3% in both 1978 and 1979. In 1980, GDP growth is
estimated to have risen to about 6%, largely because of favorable weather,
increased exports and some recovery of investment in the private sector. The
adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has probably been
substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment creation during
1973-77. On the whole, the demand management policies followed since 1978
have had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been
only partly successfui in their short-term stabilization objectives.   These
results brought out the urgent need to address adequately the long-term
structural weaknesses which are at the root of the continuing financial
imbalances in the Moroccan economy, and which must be corrected if an
acceptable rate of economic growth is to be achieved over the medium term
without unsustainable external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projectionsl-  of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and spreading
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



-5 -
the benefits of growth more widely. The main objectives are to achieve a
significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in the
elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and the
employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such changes
would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growth of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
rates of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
policies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and improvements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemployment
does not rise.



-6-
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays. However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion).
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.2 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.55 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on commercial credits. As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.5 billion annually in the early 1980s. The debt service ratio may
drop to about 25% or less by 1985, depending on the success of the Plan's
export drive, the containment of imports and the future developments in the
interest rates on commercial credits. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue



-7-
this policy over the next few years. Limits on commercial borrowing have been
agreed within the framework of the Extended Facility arrangement with the IMF,
and efforts sbould be continued to seek loans on softer terms.
22.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1979, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 8.4 percent. The sbare of the Bank
Group in debt service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in
1977, and 8 percent in 1979. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt
outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 percent and 11
percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 50 projects, financing
a total of $1,694.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,189 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits, totalling
$50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan
for $25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976.
IFC investments have amounted to $29.1 million ($17.1 million after
cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In
some cases delays in project implementation have been caused by management
problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall performance in project
execution has been improving and is satisfactory. Total disbursements as of
December 31, 1980, amounted to 63 percent of original appraisal forecasts, and
71 percent of revised forecasts.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 30 and 21 percent respectively of
total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (18 percent),
tourism (10 percent), education (9 percent), roads (6 percent), energy
(3 percent) and urban development (3 percent). While limited as regards the
transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to
2.2 percent of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the
main objectives of Bank lending in the early years of Bank operations in
Morocco were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide
technical assistance, especially for project preparation, and increase
productive capacity, in order to improve the balance of payments.
25.      While these objectives remain, over the last few years Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the delivery
of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access
by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.



-8-
26.      Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly addresses these
objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The Loukkos project,
approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives to a less favorably
endowed region and finances investments for agricultural development, erosion
control, forestry and livestock. It should have a significant poverty impact
and address major issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely populated
but poorly endowed mountainous regions. Continued Bank support of rainfed
agriculture is expected to be provided through an extensive livestock project
in central Morocco and an integrated rural development project in the
Khemisset province, both under preparation. A fourth line of credit to Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has helped provide credit to small and
medium farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.   Increased export
earnings are expected to result from a Bank-supported project for fruit and
vegetable marketing and production, as well as from a project currently under
preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal fishing industry.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
job creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A fourth line of credit to Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for
tourism projects was recently approved by the Executive Directors, in a sector
which has contributed a substantial share of Morocco's foreign exchange
earnings and provided significant employment. A loan to the Banque Nationale
pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE), which is being presented to the Board
concurrently, will incorporate a pilot component for export-oriented
industries. A project to increase the incomes of artisanal and small-scale
miners in southeastern Morocco, a region largely bypassed by previous
development efforts, is also scheduled to be presented to the Board shortly.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending
services to rural and low-income urban groups, which was the principal
objective of the Third Water Supply Project recently presented to the
Executive Directors. This project will also provide access to safe water in
small towns and semi-rural areas, as well as expand a pilot component
initiated under the second project to provide credit for house connections to
low income urban families. A second urban development project was recently
approved by the Board, which would continue to support the Government's
efforts to provide shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban
families. A third highway project, approved in FY1980, supported the
Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth project now being prepared
would continue support for maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan
for village electrification approved in FY1979 is helping bring power to over
a hundred small towns and villages. In addition, a project to strengthen the
capacity of local communities to prepare and implement their own development
programs and provide financing for such programs through the Communal
Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being prepared. It will not only help to widen
the distribution of infrastructure and services but will also support the
Government's policy of encouraging administrative decentralization and local
participation.



-9-
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, attention has also been given to expanding
basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater orientation in
primary schooling towards practical training. This would be complemented by
future projects in non-formal education and vocational training. The
Government's recent policy supporting primary health care would be tested
through a project currently being prepared as a first phase in a nationwide
program to reorganize medical and paramedical training, health education,
nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning services, especially
in rural areas.
30.      In order to reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the
Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 that would contribute
to the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum potential. Preparation is also underway of an engineering loan
to finance studies and a pilot unit to test the potential for commercial
extraction of oil from oil shale.
31.      The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the public
sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings, would be
reinforced by the policy changes envisaged under the first Structural
Adjustment Loan which has been appraised and is under discussion with the
Government.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Manufacturing: Recent Performance and Characteristics
32.      The share of the manufacturing sector in GDP remained stable at about
17 percent in the 1970s. After a period of accelerated growth at 7 percent
per annum in real terms in the Third Plan (1973-77), due almost entirely to
the modern industrial sector, the growth of manufacturing slowed to
4.5 percent per annum in 1978-79, as a result of increasing financial
constraints on the economy and a reassessment of industrial development
policy. Gross fixed capital formation in industry during the Third Plan is
estimated at DH 3.3 billion, much higher than during the Second Plan. The main
source of this upsurge in investment was the public sector, largely as a
result of the launching of a dozen major projects. Almost half of public
sector investment was channelled into highly capital-intensive subsectors. In
the Interim Austerity Plan (1978-80), investment (both in number of projects
and amount) decreased sharply; the primary emphasis of policy began to shift
to exports and employment generation. Preliminary data for 1980 indicate a
recovery in industrial production and investment.
33.      The manufacturing sector has remained largely oriented toward the
domestic market for consumption goods, with food industries the dominant
subsector (generating over one-third of industrial value added), followed by
textiles (responsible for over one fifth of industrial value added) and other
resource-based, intermediate goods industries (chemicals, cement, construction
materials, paper and pulp). Import-substitution, a major feature in Morocco's
industrial development thus far, has not reduced dependence on imports, but



-10-
has led to replacement of substituted imports of consumer goods by imports of
intermediate and capital goods. The share of domestic demand for manufactured
goods met by local production increased only marginally, from 59 percent in
1975 to 62 percent in 1978. There have been significant recent increases in
the volume of industrial exports (17 percent in 1980, as compared with 10
percent per annum during the period 1973-77) and their share in total export
value (from about 24 percent in 1975 to about 39 percent in 1979). The food,
textile and chemical industries are most active in exports and account for
about 90 percent of manufactured exports. Food industries have traditionally
exported about 7 percent of their production, and textiles and chemicals
emerged as significant export industries in the 1970s.
34.      Manufacturing establishments and employment are concentrated along
the Casablanca-Rabat-Kenitra axis, but recent Government policies aimed at
regional decentralization have produced slight changes. While total
industrial employment (excluding handicrafts) grew by 8.8 percent per annum
between 1975 and 1978, the manufacturing sector only provides a small share of
total employment (estimated at 11.5 percent in 1977).
35.      Morocco's complex system of industrial incentives comprises
protection and some export subsidization, pricing policy and investment
incentives. There are indications that the price structure is highly
distorted and not conducive to efficient resource allocation, that it
discriminates against exports and intermediate goods industries, and through
encouraging capital intensity, adversely affects employment generation.
Protection is rarely revised, except upward, and has uneven subsectoral
impact. Industrial investment incentives in the form of interest rebates, duty
exemptions on imported equipment, and tax exemptions have not encouraged
labor-intensive processes. Export incentives (tax exemptions on export
generated profits and short-term export credits at concessionary interest
rates, have provided outside domestic credit ceilings, and assumption of the
foreign exchange risk on export contracts by the Treasury) have not been
sufficient to outweigh the disincentive effects of the high prices of local
inputs and the relative higher profitability of the domestic market as a
result of protection. There is thus a need to rationalize the incentive
system to make it more responsive to the Government's objectives of employment
generation and rapid export led industrial growth (paragraphs 47 and 52).
Small Scale Industries (SSIs)l/
36.      According to a 1977 Government survey of enterprises employing
between 5 and 49 workers, there were about 3,160 such enterprises in Morocco,
employing about 42,000 workers and representing about 20 percent of
1/ As in the Integrated Project for Small Scale Industry Development (Loan
1687-MOR, SSI I project), SSIs are defined as manufacturing enterprises
with a total project cost, or total assets after expansion, of less than
DH 5 million ($l million equivalent) excluding land, and with an
investment cost per job created of less than DH 40,000-50,000
($8,000-10,000) depending on the location and the type of industry.



-11-
manufacturing employment and value added. About two-thirds of these are
concentrated in the three large urban areas of Casablanca, Fez, and
Marrakech. Handicrafts (which normally employ less than 5 workers) are more
scattered in rural and urban areas, and may employ about 45 percent of the
manufacturing labor force.
37.      The food, textile and leather industries dominate small scale
industries' production and exports. SSIs are also active in the chemical,
electro-mechanical, construction materials and wood and furniture
industries.   With more than DH 450 million ($90 million equivalent) of
exports, SSIs accounted in 1977 for 22 percent of all manufacturing exports.
38.      Since 1978, the Government, in a reassessment of priorities, has
emphasized employment and the role of the SSI sector, and has attempted to
identify and assist potential entrepreneurs, encourage production to
complement larger enterprises, and use the encouragement of SSIs to promote
regional dispersal of industry. The main components of the Government's
integrated programs for assisting SSIs have been the creation of a Policy
Making Unit in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) to formulate
policies for their development, the provision of technical and management
assistance to SSIs (paragraph 43), and the provision of financial assistance
through a new scheme including a guarantee mecbanism.
The Financial System
39.      Morocco's financial sector includes Banque du Maroc (the Central
Bank), fifteen commercial banks, five specialized institutions including the
industrial development bank, Banque Nationale pour le Developpement
Economique (BNDE), and two savings banks. There is also a stock market in
Casablanca with a limited and declining role. Commercial banks are
efficient, have a good record of profitability, and are free from major
Government interference. Sight deposits represent the major part of
commercial banks' resources (59 percent in 1979), and short-term loans
account for about 90 percent of their lending. The five specialized
financial institutions are responsible for the bulk of medium- and long-term
lending, and consist of institutions specialized by sector of activity,
lending to agriculture and agri-business, tourism projects, housing, and
industry, as well as an institution in charge of public fund management.
Financing of industrial investment takes various forms: medium- and
long-term credits of BNDE and commercial banks, foreign suppliers' credits,
leasing, and equity participation. Commercial banks offer three-year
equipment financing loans, but though the processing period for these is
short, their cost is higher than that of medium-term credits. Leasing,
(introduced in 1965 and offered by three institutions) has only a marginal
impact. While BNDE and commercial banks occasionally invest in equity
participations in the private sector and the Office pour le Developpement
Industriel (ODI) (paragraph 42) in the public sector, there is as yet no
specialized venture capital company. Most equity financing comes from
individual savings or from public sources.



-12-
40.      Since 1978, the Government, in its effort to rebalance the economy,
has curtailed public capital expenditures and tightened bank credit to the
private sector. In practice, however, the banking system's short-term
credits have increased as a proportion of total credits, with a worsening of
the traditional illiquiditv of Moroccan commercial banks. In 1980, the
Central Bank raised its basic rediscount rate, for the first time since
1975, from 4.5 to 6 percent.
41.      Lending Rates. The interest rate structure was overhauled in
October 1980, with substantial increases in both deposit rates (to attract
savings) and lending rates. The ceiling on commercial bank rates on
rediscountable loans was raised from 8 percent per annum to 9 percent per
annum for short-term loans and to 10 percent per annum for medium-term
loans. BNDE introduced a single rate of 12 percent per annum on all its
loans, regardless of maturity (replacing the former system of 10 percent per
annum for medium-term and 11 percent per annum for long-term loans). The
rates for SSI borrowers would be 10 percent per annum for sub-loans up to
seven years, and a nominal 12 percent per annum for sub-loans over seven
years. However, because of a two-point interest rebate applicable to
sub-loans with a maturity longer than seven years, the effective rate for
all SSI borrowers would be 10 percent per annum. The desirability of
eliminating the interest subsidy is to be studied in the context of the
Government's structural adjustment program. Lending rates were marginally
negative in 1977 and 1978, but became marginally positive in 1979 and 1980.
Inflationary pressures were moderate through 1976, and intensified in 1977,
when the cost of living index rose 12.5 percent. Austerity measures imposed
in 1978 slowed the inflation rate to 9.7 percent in 1978 and 8.3 percent in
1979. In 1980 inflation increased to 9.4 percent. The effective rate for
SSI lending of 10 percent per annum is higher than the expected rates of
inflation which are projected to average 8-9 percent per annum over the
commitment period of the proposed loan, 1981-1983, slightly lower than
BNDE's nominal (12 percent) and effective (10 percent) lending rates.
Institutional and Policy Framework
42.      The Government sets policies for the development of industry
through its Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and also participates
directly in manufacturing activity. The Office Cherifien des Phosphates
(OCP) is responsible for mining, processing and exporting phosphates and
derivatives, activities reserved to the public sector because of their
importance to the economy. Under the supervision of the Ministry of
Industry, the Office pour le Developpement Industriel (CDI) is responsible
for industrial promotion activities. The ODI undertakes pre-investment
studies, acquires equity shares in new industrial enterprises, and aims at
contributing to regional development and local participation in
manufacturing.



-13-
43.      In the SSI field, a Policy Making Unit was created in the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry in 1978, to formulate development policies. A
Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) was also established in the ODI to assist in
the technical and managerial functioning of small scale industries. The
Policy Making Unit had, by 1980, completed a few useful studies such as a
survey of SSIs and a report on actions to encourage SSI promotion, some of
which were incorporated into the Plan. However, insufficient staffing of
the Unit and its limited influence have not enabled the formulation of
strategy guidelines for SSI development or proposals for basic required
policy changes. The TAU has provided effective assistance to a number of
projects, in technology, management and finance.
44.      In the field of export promotion, the recently created Centre
Marocain de Promotion des Exportations (CMPE), assisted by the International
Trade Center (ITC) in Geneva, is expected to function as the central
institution for the promotion of exports. The CMPE plans to conduct studies
between 1981 and 1983 on export markets, to identify a list of products of
high export potential, and to prepare a plan to penetrate US and Canadian
markets. In future, export opportunities could develop by large foreign
companies sub-contracting production to SSIs and, in the process, providing
technical assistance. Some recent promising examples of such subcontracting
arrangements with large European firms have been for automotive and
electronic components. Further studies by the Policy-Making Unit and CMPE
to identify the subsectors most promising for such arrangements, as well as
possible promoters, will be undertaken.
45.      Knowledge of the manufacturing sector is still incomplete, and
Morocco has no unit for the study and planning of industry, evaluation and
monitoring of implementation, and review of industrial policy. To fill this
gap an Industrial Planning Unit is being established within the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry.
46.      The new 1981-85 Plan stresses three major objectives of industrial
development: (a) expanding export industries based on local resources (such
as, principally, phosphate-based chemicals) or using unskilled or
semi-skilled labor (such as textiles); (b) employment creation through
encouraging SSIs; and (c) promotion of efficient import-substitution
industries for capital and intermediate goods. Under the Plan, industrial
investment is projected to total DH 20.9 billion ($4.2 billion equivalent)
and generate a growth rate of 8.4 percent per annum in industrial value
added. Industrial investment is to be focussed on; chemical industries for
exports, mainly manufacture of phosphate derivatives (51 percent of
investment); SSIs (12 percent of investment); and intermediate and large
engineering industries (15 percent of investment) where, at Morocco's
present stage of development, opportunities exist for efficient import
substitution.
47.      The revision of the incentives system (protection, and investment
and export codes) will be undertaken by the Government after a series of
studies to assess the current system and to recommend appropriate changes
are completed; these studies, supported by the Bank, have been in progress



-14-
since 1979. They will serve as a basis for rationalizing the protection and
price structure, and for recommending new incentive systems. The Government
has drawn up a program for completing the studies in 1981, for preparing its
recommendations for reformulating the structure of protection and of the
incentive codes in the first quarter of 1982, and for completing the gradual
reform of the structure of protection and tariffs by mid-1983. The reforms
are expected to reduce administrative delays, and the various biases that
exist presently among sectors, among firms and between production for the
local market and for export. The new codes are also expected to offer more
effective incentives to foreign companies to make sub-contracting
arrangements with Moroccan firms, and bring about transfers of technology.
48.       While the preparatory work for the major industrial policy reforms
outlined in the previous paragraph is underway, the Government plans to
undertake several important actions for promoting exports in the short-term.
The CMPE is being strengthened, administrative export procedures and access
to export financing are being simplified, and an agency is being created for
standardization and quality control, especially of industrial export
products. The Government is also undertaking measures to promote the
participation of domestic engineering industries in capital formation. These
include the study and establishment of a credit system for financing the
inputs and marketing of capital goods, and the establishment before March
1982, under the auspices of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, of an
Engineering Contracting Unit to integrate more domestic capital goods in
public industrial projects.
Performance under Previous Bank Loans
49.      The Bank commenced its assistance to the SSI sector in 1977 with a
pilot-line of $5 million in conjunction with the eighth line of credit to
BNDE (Ln. 1428-MOR), designed to improve lending procedures and improve the
Bank's knowledge of the subsector. The amount allocated was shared between
the Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP, Morocco's largest commercial bank) and
BNDE. Forty one sub-projects with a total cost of DH 44 million
($8.8 million equivalent) were financed, potentially creating some 1,700
jobs at an average cost of DH 26,000 ($5,200 equivalent). At the time of
appraisal of the current project, only a few sub-projects were operational,
as a result of delays in organizing the new firms and in obtaining delivery
of equipment. Sub-projects which were operational appeared to be functioning
satisfactorily. Two-thirds of the pilot line was disbursed June 1, 1981.
50.      As a result of the favorable experience with the pilot-line, the
SSI I (Loan 1687-MOR) project was designed to increase substantially
long-term financing available to the SSI sub-sector, and strengthen the
delivery of technical assistance and the institutional framework. An amount
of $25 million was channelled through the commercial banking system and
BNDE, with BNDE acting as the apex institution. Commitments were much more
rapid than anticipated, and by May 1981, 91 percent of the funds were
committed, as compared with 75 percent expected at appraisal, and
196 sub-projects financed in the textiles and leather, electro-mechanical,



-15-
chemicals, construction, food processing and miscellaneous subsectors. The
Central Bank's decision to exclude SSI sub-loans from credit ceilings was a
decisive incentive. This exclusion will be maintained for the SSI II
Project. The only significant issue that arose in implementing the SSI I
project so far has been that the demand for sub-loans to finance very small
firms was less than expected, while demand for financing small and medium
firms was greater than expected. As a result, it was necessary to adjust the
allocation of the SSI I loan by sub-loan category. This development has been
taken into account in designing the SSI II Project (paragraph 59).
Constraints
51.      The problems affecting the development of Moroccan SSIs are not
different from those observed in other countries at a similar stage of
development, and indeed in many others. The internal problems which
adversely affect the productivity of SSIs and constrain their growth
include: deficient production planning, accounting and management; poor
product design and plant layout; at times inappropriate selection of
equipment; and lack of quality control. Because of their small size, SSIs
also suffer from shortages of raw materials (most of which are indirectly
imported through wholesale dealers), and limited marketing capabilities
(channelling through several intermediaries, thus adding further to the
costs). The institutional problems faced by SSIs are mainly limited access
to financing, and the system of investment incentives with criteria which
are not well tailored to SSIs (such as the encouragements for capital
intensive projects, while SSIs are oriented toward labor-intensive
projects). The bias in favor of import-substitution and high protection
built in the 1973 Investment Code has reduced competition in price, quality,
and technological innovation. Last but not least, Government regulations
and administrative procedures have repeatedly deterred SSI promoters from
making investment decisions or caused delays in their implementation. Until
the inception of the first SSI Bank project, there were no institutions in
Morocco providing effective technical or managerial assistance to SSIs. The
establishment of the TAU has filled the gap, but the needs, both
qualitatively and quantitatively, are large. Priorities for technical
assistance appear to be for general and financial management and for
marketing, for assistance with the selection of equipment and technology,
and for on-the-job training of foremen and middle-level staff. The program
of the Technical Assistance Unit for 1981-82 (see paragraph 4.11 of Staff
Appraisal Report), reviewed with the Bank, reflects these priorities. Some
banks, such as Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP), Banque Nationale pour le
Commerce et l'Industrie (BNCI), and BNDE, have also established special
programs to assist SSIs. Lack of access to institutional financing
particularly for small SSIs, is still an important constraint to SSI
development. It is hard, however, to ascertain the true dimensions of the
problem because of the reluctance of SSI promoters to disclose their
detailed financial position in official surveys. A 1977 sample survey of
SSIs 1/ revealed a financial structure characterized by a weak equity base,
1/ SORCA-BMB: "Etude du Secteur de la Petite Industrie au Maroc", June
1978.



-16-
and very low ratios of working capital to fixed assets and to turnover.
Basic cost accounting is generally lacking; some financial accounts are
produced only occasionally for fiscal purposes, and tend to be meaningless.
Bank Role in Industry
52.      The role of the Bank in industrial development in Morocco has been
to support structural change in industry through the efficient development
of individual sub-sectors, through the development of institutions concerned
with industrial development, and through a dialogue on policy issues. Past
Bank financing has supported the development of industrial processing of
Morocco's phosphate reserves; of the cement subsector; of BNDE as a source
of medium-term financing for industry of growing importance and
sophistication; and of the development of SSIs, where there is considerable
potential for efficient growth of production and generation of employment.
Recently, the policy dialogue has focused on the structure of protection and
incentives in general, on the expansion of manufactured exports, on
employment generation and on developing the industrial structure. These
areas are receiving priority from the Government and will form the main
focus for Bank financing over the next several years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
53.      The proposed project emerges from successful experience under the
SSI I project. It was appraised in October-November 1980, and negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1981. The Moroccan delegation was led
by Mr. Abdelkader Benslimane, President Director-General of BNDE. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Second Small Scale Industry Project" (No.
3502-MOR, dated June 10, 1981) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and project are listed in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
54.      The proposed project would help create industrial employment at
costs substantially below those in industry in general by:
a) providing resources for small entrepreneurs who would otherwise
face difficulty in securing sufficient financing for their
enterprises (at least $68.75 million of the loan);
b) providing technical assistance to potential and existing SSIs
($1.0 million); and
c) financing studies to help overcome institutional constraints and
to revise the incentives system for SSI ($0.25 million).



-17-
Loan Features
55.      Lending terms, arrangements and procedures would be essentially the
same as under the SSI I loan. The proposed SSI II loan would help finance
the Government's program for assistance to small industries over the period
1981-83, through financing of SSI sub-projects and of technical assistance.
The loan would also finance studies to review the policy and incentive
systems relating to SSIs, and to recommend appropriate changes to foster
efficient SSI development. As some of the sub-projects are expected to have
maturities of up to twelve years, and may be approved towards the end of the
three-year commitment period, the Bank loan to the Treasury would be repaid
over a period of fifteen years including four years of grace.
56.      The terms of sub-loans would conform to the economic life of
sub-projects with a maximum maturity of twelve years, and a maximum grace
period of three years (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section C, paragraph 6).
Interest rates would be those prevailing for BNDE loans to industry, net of
interest subsidies, (paragraph 41 above, and Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Section C, paragraph 6), presently resulting in a uniform effective rate of
10 percent. Commercial banks and BNDE would draw the proceeds of the
proposed loan from the Treasury at a rate of interest two percent below the
effective rate to be paid by sub-borrowers. Under the SSI I project, this
spread appears to have been adequate. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk under the proposed project.
57.      Under the proposed loan, as in SSI I, BNDE would have a double
role: that of a direct lender, and, under a management agreement, of an
agent of the Government in supervising the commercial banks and managing the
funds relent to them. A standard contract between BNDE and the commercial
banks would spell out eligibility criteria and procedures for appraisal of
sub-loans, disbursements, and supervision. The execution of a BNDE
convention between the Government and BNDE, as well as the conclusion by
BNDE of standard conventions satisfactory to the Bank with at least three
participating banks, including the Banque Centrale Populaire, would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01). Approval of sub-loans and the coordination of project implementation
are the responsibility of a Technical Committee (on which the Ministries of
Finance, Commerce and Industry, the Banque du Maroc, ODI and BNDE are
represented). As in the SSI I project, participating banks would prepare
annual supervision reports on all the borrowers under this component; BNDE
would consolidate and analyze these reports. BNDE's report, an annual
monitoring report of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and a report
prepared by ODI on technical assistance activities would be reviewed by the
Technical Committee, which would make necessary changes in criteria and
procedures. Eighty percent of the sub-loans would be guaranteed by the
Caisse Centrale de Garantie (CCG), a Government agency, and guarantees would
be approved at the same time as the sub-loan.



-18-
58.      Sub-loans under the SSI component would finance up to 50 percent of
the total cost of SSI sub-projects, representing their estimated foreign
exchange content (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section C, paragraph 1).
Sub-borrowers would provide at least 20 percent of project cost. The balance
would be financed by lending by the participating banks, and would be
rediscountable with the Banque du Maroc, outside global credit ceilings.
59.      The SSI II loan would be allocated to three categories of
sub-projects, classified by assets of the recipient company, after
establishment or expansion as follows; a) very small firms (including
artisan workshops), with assets of up to DH 1 million (200,000 equivalent);
this category would be allocated at least 25 percent of the loan component,
($17.2 million); b) small firms, with assets of between DH 1 million and
DH 3 million ($600,000); this category would be allocated at least
60 percent of the loan component ($41.3 million); c) medium sized firms,
with assets of between DH 3 million and DH 5 million ($1.0 million); this
category would be allocated at most 15 percent of the loan component
($10.3 million), (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). By comparison with the SSI
I project, the ceiling for very small firms has been raised from DH 500,000
to DH 1 million, and the ceiling for small firms has been raised from
DR 2.5 million to DH 3 million. To ensure adequate emphasis on smaller,
more labor-intensive firms, the eligibility ceiling for medium firms
(category (c)) has not been raised, despite the inflation experienced in
recent years. It is estimated that the proposed percentage allocation of the
loan among the three categories would result in a smaller average subproject
size than was the case under the SSI I project. In line with the conditions
of the SSI I loan, the financial rate of return for all SSI sub-projects
financed under the proposed loan must be at least 10 percent; for small
firms, as defined above, the cost of end-products, calculated by valuing
inputs at international prices, must be comparable with c.i.f. prices of
similar imports; while for medium firms a minimum economic rate of return
(ERR) of 10 percent must also be met (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraphs
A l(a), (c), and (d)).
60.      To promote maximum employment creation, a ceiling on the investment
per job required will be maintained. Taking into account the increasing
concentration of industries in the Casablanca area, and the Government's
desire to obtain a wider geographical spread, the cost per job ceiling will
be set at DH 45,000 ($9,000 equivalent) in the Casablanca area, and at
DR 50,000 ($10,000 equivalent) elsewhere for SSI projects in general, with
the exception of projects in the electro-mechanical sector. For the latter,
the cost per job ceiling would be DH 55,000 ($11,000) in the Casablanca area
and DH 60,000 ($12,000) elsewhere (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph A
l(b)). Special ceilings are proposed for electro-mechanical industries
because of their greater capital intensity, and so as to offer incentives
for their development in line with the Government's sectoral priorities.
The cost per job ceilings mentioned would continue to be indexed to the
wholesale price index for Casablanca as in the SSI I project, with July 1,
1981 the base date for indexation. The proposed ceilings represent a slight
tightening in real terms of the cost per job ceilings under the SSI I
project.



-19-
Technical Assistance
61.      The Ministry of Commerce and Industry will be responsible for
carrying out and monitoring the technical assistance program through its
Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04, and Schedule
2, Part B). The technical assistance provided by the TAU (paragraph 43)
will be continued with the help of foreign experts. This assistance is
effective and well received by the SSI promoters. The terms of reference
for the TAU, as agreed with the Bank, call for activities in the following
fields: (a) identification and preparation of SSI projects in coordination
with banks and the Ministry of Industry; (b) technical advice to
entrepreneurs in the selection and procurement of equipment and in preparing
financing requests; (c) assistance in project implementation through solving
infrastructural and administrative problems; and, (d) assistance in
identifying and solving management, production, accounting, and financial
problems of SSIs. Under the project, the emphasis will be on helping to
identify investment opportunities by creating a data bank, and helping
promoters with project processing; offering seminars in elementary
accounting, general management and related fields; and assisting SSIs in the
choice of equipment and appropriate technology. It is expected that the EEC
will continue to fund the foreign exchange cost of these activities after
the current contract expires in mid-1982. However, the proposed loan would
provide for the foreign exchange cost of the TAU for a two-year period,
estimated at $1.0 million, if additional EEC financing cannot be obtained.
If it can be, this amount will be made available for SSI project financing.
The proposed technical assistance to be funded will include 96 man-months of
consultants' time, at $8,600 per man-month, including subsistence and
international travel.
62.      The SSI Policy Making Unit in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
(paragraph 43) has not yet had a decisive impact on policy formulation.
Agreement has been reached during negotiations with the Government to
strengthen the Unit. Areas on which the Unit will focus include the
involvement of SSIs in carrying out public contracts, quality control of
products and marketing, especially for exports. The Unit would also study
institutional constraints, make recommendations to improve the structure of
incentives pertaining to SSIs, and would follow up on their implementation.
The proposed loan would provide for the foreign exchange cost of these
studies estimated at $250,000, covering 18 man-months of expert services at
a cost of $10,000 per man-month, including subsistence and international
travel. The Government would prepare the terms of reference for these
studies for the Bank's approval by December 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06, and Schedule 2, Part C(2)).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.      Given the small size and cost of individual investment items, most
of them will be directly purchased from suppliers. BNDE has developed a set
of guidelines for procurement under the SSI I project; purchases are made
following a comparison of price quotations from suppliers or contractors.
These procedures are satisfactory and will continue to be used for the SSI
II loan, with continued supervision by BNDE. For very small and small



-20-
enterprises (with total assets, excluding land, of below DH 3 million),
price quotations would be obtained from at least two suppliers or
contractors, as under the SSI I project. For medium sized SSIs (with total
assets, excluding land, of between DH 3 million and DH 5 million), price
quotations would be obtained from at least three suppliers or contractors
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section D, paragraph 1). Under SSI I typical
items procured included individual pieces of machinery and equipment, with
estimated costs ranging from $1,000 to $50,000.
64.      The proposed SST II loan of $70 million is expected to be fully
committed by December 31, 1983 (Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (b)) and
fully disbursed by June 30, 1986. Disbursements would be supported by
standard documentation to be retained by commercial banks and BNDE and made
available for periodic review by Bank supervision missions. Bank
disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditure
issued by BNDE. This procedure has worked satisfactorily under the SSI I
loan.
Accounts and Auditing
65.      BNDE would keep separate accounts for transactions related to all
sub-loans and these accounts would be audited annually by a reputable
international accounting firm, and the audited financial statements would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year.
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section C, paragraph 4).
Justification and Risks
66.      The loan  directly supports the Government's policy to alleviate
urban unemployment through industrialization, and to expand the industrial
base of the country's economy. Although there is not yet full feedback on
the achievements of SSI I, its success so far demonstrates the demand for
this type of financing and the associated technical assistance. Under the
SSI II project about 600 existing and new SSIs would be financed, and about
15,000 new jobs would be created at an average cost of DH 47,500 ($9,500)
per job; this compares with an average cost of DH 190,000 ($38,000) for
employment in manufacturing industry in general. The sub-projects are
expected to supply component parts for larger industries, substitute for
imports, and generate exports. The development of small enterprises (which
normally can adapt quickly to changing demands), as well as the creation of
additional entrepreneurial managers should have a substantial impact on
Morocco's longer term industrial development prospects. Taking into account
the experience gained under the pilot project and the first line of credit,
there are no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BNDE, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



-21-
68.      Special features of the project are described in paragraphs 57
to 62 of this report. Special conditions of loan effectiveness are: (i) the
execution of a convention between the Government and BNDE for administration
of the loan, and (ii) conclusion of standard conventions by BNDE, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with not less than three commercial
banks, including the Banque Centrale Populaire (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01).
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
June 22, 1981
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
-  22  -                                        Page I
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
LAND ARLA (THUUSAND SQ. Esi.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            447.0/c                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
nGRDCULTUIAL     203. 77c                               MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GCP PRLt CAPITA (US$)                 200.0        310.0     740.0                 865.5                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER LAPITA
(KILOGRKAMS OF GOAL EQUIVALENT)     169.3        222.2     315.2                 758.3                   1324.1
POPULnTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MlD-YEAk (THOUSANDS) 11626.0       14993.0   19538.0
URBAN PoPULATIuN (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 29.3          34.6      39.9                  45.2                     64.2
POPULATIUO PkuJECT iONS
PuPULATION IN YEAK 200O (MILLIONS)                        35.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILLIONS)                          81.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
FOUFLLATIO N DENSITY
PER SQ. th.                        26.0         33.5      43.7                  36.3                     34.3
Ptk SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      59.b         76.0      92.9                 442.7                     94.5
eOPULATION AGO STRUCTURE (PERChNT)
U-14 YRS.                          44.8         47.6      46.3                  44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6        4B.3       50.4                  52.4                     55.3
o5 YIR. AND ANOVE                    2.6          4.1       3.3                   3.4                      4.0
PJPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.5       2.9                   2.7                      2.4
URBAN                               3.7          4.2       4.5                   4.6                      3.7
GRUDt. BIRTh kAATE  PER THOUSAND)    50.2         47.4      44.2                  41.5                     31.4
GCtUDD  DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.8         16.4      12.8                  12.8                      8.4
GRObS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.6          3.5       3.2                   2.9                      2.3
PARiTLY PLANNING
ACCLPTORS, AhNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCLNT oP HARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.0       5.4
PouD AND NUTkRITIO
INDEX Ot FOD PROUDUCTION
PlK CAPITA (1969-71-100)           99.0         98.0      85.0                  96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA bUPPLY OP
LALORIES (PERCENT OP
RELUIRLKLNTS)                    96.0        102.0     105.0                 110.4                    107.6
PROTUINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         66.0      67.0                  73.4                     65.8
O} Wh1Ch ANIMAlL AND PULSE       13.0         13.0      13.U                  17.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MOKTALITY RATE      30.3         21.9      15.7                  14.9                      7.6
hEALTH
LIFF EXPECTANCY AT biRTh (YEARS)    46.9          51.9      56.4                  55.9                     64.1
IhNANT hOKTALI'IY
BATE (PEk ThOUSAND)                  ..           ..        ..                    ..                     70.9
ACCESSb TO SAFL WAlER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              30.6         31.0      55.0                  59.4                     65.7
URbAN                              58.7         92.0     100.0                  83.9                     79.7
KRKAL                              19.0         28.0      25.0                  40.8                     43.9
ACCESS [o EXCKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Uo POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         29.0        ..                    ..                     59.9
uKboN                                ..         75.0        ..                    ..                     75.7
RURAL                                .,          4.0        ..                    ..                     30.4
POPULAlION PUb  PHYSICIAN          9406.1/d   12814.5   11037.4                 4174.5                   1728.2
POPULAlION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       2742.2    1693.5                1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER hOSPITAL KED
TOTAL                             626.u        664.3     773.6                 647.4                    471.2
UKBAN                                ..        454.7     623.4                 547.2                    558.0
hURAL                                . .     5821.4    3089.5                 3361.1
ADMIbSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         15.5      16.5                  25.3
hOuS 10
AVbRAGE SIZL OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8          5.5
URBAN                               4.3          4.9
hREAL                               5.1          5.8
AVERAGE StUMbER OF PERSONS PER R80(5
TOTAL                               2.2          2.4
UbKAN                               2.1          2.1
RURAL                               2.3          2.6
ACCUSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP LWELLIN0S)
TOTAL                              76             , .       ..
UkbAN                              85.4Te       68.4      65.0.
KUhAL                              30.8Te         ..



ANNEX I
- 23 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0         52.0      72.0                 85.1                    101.7
MALE                 67.0        67.0       90.0                101.5                    103.0
FEMALE               27.0        36.0       54.0                 67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 5.0         13.0      20.0                 38.0                     35.3
MALE                  7.0        18.0       25.0                 48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                2.0         7.0       15.0                 28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0       3.0                 11.3                     30.1
PUPiL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0        34.0       39.0                 34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                           ..         20.0      21.0                 23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       14.0         21.4      28.0                 43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0         14.8      19.6                 18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        45.8        62.4       87.4                121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         11.6      32.6                 37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 22.0         16.2      10.7                 35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       2.0                  3.0                      3.2
LABCR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3369.7      3951.7    5117.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  10.1         14.1      15.6                 10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.5         56.9      52.7                 43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.8         17.4      20.7                 27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               29.0         26.4      26.2                 26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 52.1        45.2      44.2                 47.0                     49.0
FEILaLE                              5.9          7.5       8.2                  5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         2.0       1.9                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PEgCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f       20.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.377       49.077
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.077       4.077       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f       12.0/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                            107.0        157.0     389.0                271.4
RURAL                             66.0        101.0     238.0                144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      242.0                400.8                    513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      157.0                290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                             51.0         38.0      28.0                 22.1
RURAL                             49.0         45.0      45.0                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Excludes the ex-Spcaish Sahara  /d 1961?; In R-i-k 'vi!dings o'   ,f Cr. -,tic^f
Revised
June, 1981



- 24-                                                                                       A2Nn I
P... 3
DEPINITCION Or SOCILaj tPlCflORS
Note.  Altbooth the da.t-drew  from  e--c  generally judged the wet ahrtietd reliable, it should ele  he totd that they my tot be  tote-
nutooally ounpe...bla because of the loch of staudordieed dotiintoos cod conoepte oed by diff-aet   -tounr .ic tooiloto                  .h data.  The de. . , tt
th.lese,  sef o1 to decotheb orders of eagolcod, hoiceen tren.ds, nod  hareoterli   cer..tain eajor differec-   btw-toctte
The re  ratr  rop   r  (1) the ea-  contry troop of the eabjoot coutry end (2) a tountry troo.p  toh somehat highar stene  i-re  that the co-tty trop
of th aehtc  outry  (-.urt foo "CuPita1 turplo. 011 footeegop oh.re  'Middle bo-n  Woth Afice cod Middle fact" is    .   bhoen  eoeAa of-enrrge
eoofo.-ooltor.l aftots . I  the  e                Src  troop dote the  -reroa  arm  Ppulartlot neightod arinbecic ea-afor  .uo  indicator cod eh-n  ooly ret
eajority of the c.outrine io a eo..ap hoe data for then irdioecor.  fince the  -orag  of conrteamo  the inditcator  depeode ro the   cilabilittY cf dete
and  s nt uifor, cuntr wt he noerteed it.rlottog aoera.a  of.. one 4dtcar  to another.  Th..n roreeAre only uea fol to  ceo to chelu   o
on SnIatra    tn    eo  the oou.tny and ref-aor  grooPe.
[ANP AR04 (thoo-d   qkn)              -P.pueooopeti                                                                  eyro  nod -  totl, aobn, ond rura  - FPcpolatto  (cotal,
Total - Total eof o               ,aneo aprlto  Iaod area And inlcod noe.rb o, ad rura1l) tided by oh le  -eperio  otabe  of hasPita1 bode
Eaiutrl -itecaut  of-eoctur ee  oeed temporaily or p -ran ly                              avilable to publiccdprvt   -euca  aud Peyecneitrd hoepittl andr-
for oroyc, putra    arrt and kittrbe  fardex  or to lie fullor; 1973 dana.                      hobilltotiot reotere.             Iopcaareaathestoe pr-nasrty ecaffed
by at mon  atel..  phycicEon       ntbshna.rsproidli~g prlio.ict lcoic
INP POt CAPITA (lUg) - IffP par onpita -aet.m.m An o-rroc moke  prime  o-                            dial oco. tern  -r  locode.6      r     op le   uer,illud  bmnlth
oulatod by e-coteett ,ehod me Word Muti Anise (19)7-79 basis; 1960,                               nAM  edncl1  -atere non permanotly aneffod hy a phyito U          ho  b
1970, and 1979 dana.                                                                              _edioul n.e. too._one, el:dotfa, oc.) which offor to-oa"t io    o
datlor and poroide e [lonitd  -at of nadico  frlins.rFea-                 e
fENERlY CIMOfIPTIIl PfER CAPITAL - Aaooal c2oteuPtc ot f -c-a-ctnlnrer.gy (tool                      ctcrl purpotna urbun hospitole ioclode  Wof  poloripa1/grn..a  hoe.pitale,
andtlignite.,p osm   -tatu.r It  cod hydro- , nucea  codetherula-                                 cod rura  hoepitl1. loca  no rura  hospItals cod medical and aaerl-ty
rtotniyl to kIlogram   of coal eqo-oalet Per cie; 190. 197. nod 1979                              Setrn        pecinlinad hasp Ot.ln ac   =ooa4 oly ordertoo
data.                                                                                           Adetenione  -r Iositul. Bad - Totl o1       o  on adol ..o. tour diachorg.s
from  dopt ls  yldad by ohn nube  of hrda.
POPUILATION ANtD VITAL STATISTICS
Total  Pooclttoo. roid-Yeor (thousan ds) -A. ofJuly 11 1960, 1970, nod 1979                  itUtIft
data                                                                                          Are...as ties of ftoo..hold (remjotep oarouseho~ld)-talurc.odua-
irb.   ...u....ot .P.e.c.ot of total)   Ratio oflub- to tota  .poplohion)                         A household ocoicte ofa  rop_f oividoAlawoeo 110101 quatEOn
different deffnitions- of  rta  trs    y offset  oap-abailtoy of into                           cod their  aic me1al.  A bood-r or lodao my orme  to  hr  toludad co
amogtontin;1960, 1970, sod 1979 dato.                                                           the house hold fora.     ieia  purpreen.
Populanito Proleottone                                                                          A-ara- nuber ofteas oaloo   - ntotl. oren. and rrl..  - Av-rote ou.
Poneistion in you  20ll - Cuo-w   population  roeotoc  r  based on 1980                         bar of p-rsoo  prr noon Inal  ubt, cod rural occupied -cortioalnu
total Ppoplontu  by aten   eno naod their matality end fertility rae.drlligS.,  ep-ci-nly.  D-rt1iog.aexlude  o-prann   trooread
AProirrolon paosor        lo netaliny ratne oeprise of three le-ne Aen-                       untople    ore
tog. lfe  - eaatncy At birblocenio   ith coutry's pm  capita inonm                          dUo..s to nEatritti  Iorso f ..    fdnltl-  total,-urban.onrua-
leol  and f lae life  -escoc    tbiltinig Al 77.1 yemr..   ?Oi pare1-                       Ceotn-Io   dvnlliot  tlhth eletr,ilfly In  nrlg qatn   epren
manor  for fortility into alto her  tbrnn level  asnumfto  decline In                         of total, urhet, tndru-n   denlliotsr-p-cttvly.
fuall lity ....ondiag to itoom   lnal and Pastaly plnrlog p-rf-rao..
lah  outy is ther. osseod oeo  three cone coehinonlio    of me-tlity                  EDUCATIONl
and fenniliny trends 0. poy-jetiot purposes.                                                Adiueted tano1-to Ratios
ttattoorr nunlatton-I Iteentionuy   npulotlon thr  toi to grtwh ems                       Otewo shoo  - totalmal nod femagle - Irose total, mis and tfnni
the birth rate iS equa  to nhe dexnh rate,  od ole   hreg   eocr   n-s imnt o  all ogma  the -pioy  lve  as p-arto-ugr  of r-p-cti-
thio  co   -an   Thin isucierd only afr fertility rntos deoline no                              pray  shulaepoyalotinoon; noomly inludee children agedf-11
th  - Iicnet  on  of unit oat -eprodanior rune. oh.. .-b go ati.n.er  bun nd)uatod f-r difftloet lnogthe of primay adnoation; 0
of wetop-       oaitenir eacly.  Thestationer  parulatitotsr   w                                coonrce  nrhuourso..I edoc-toi so            ot  ear  -oaad 100 pur-o
onttnocad ton the heats of th. proiotnd oh-rccorianice of the popula1tion                         i_c  soepoitar        -e or  bo- the offidol1 echoal ue.
itthe yn-  2000,. od the rate of deollion of ferility tntn to replace-                       eonedeorsoy   o -otl male and fem1n  - C.mpotdIasbhar; secodar
neo  lve.                                                                                    educatilo  requiree atI. lan four Yoen  of apprord prmr   nsroit
yZor stncione    porulctot is reahed - The you  rh.. staionay populioob                            ponoidet trS-a,rcI.        nl   ctuhn   cO,r  larcu                  fortpoolS
sine hot ben  rnechrd.                                                                          osoaly of 12 to 17 yerof-0~   uraod-xncnra   r  area-11
Per en.he. - Od-yearpopulation Per t..u. killoat-r (110 h-ctrn) of                        Vtorttou'   noletlaoo  of eouodnry) - Voctional loetlnutto.n
Pato  ann; 1960  190ndW7 na                                                                       inld  tohlol,  outil  nohrpoom    hc   urt   oeed
mr a. h . orOuooa lend  -11 Compted asaoe  o   giclun  ln                                      ly or or dopocllo  of  _acotdy itettoloe
only; 1960, 1970 und 1979 do,ta.                                                              Pupo1-tas...   rai      rmr.ad nodr       oa  snst   ooldt
Pono3latot.n    cucon(rrt)-Childre  f0-l4 yasre), ourhiog-age (15-ptmcyanecody lorele diridd  by neborn oftcathr  in tho
66 penre), cod -tirnd (6l ynr- and ra)c   ocoan  of scd-yenr Pupa-                                .o.epodig  er -o
tlatte; 1960, 1970, nod 1979 data.                                                              Adult litrac  roo  (P roln)- Litrae   duta lohie to read and -ite)
Potu.lattom- Ino-h tote lnorcext) -  -onn  - Annual gronthre        of tocn1 And-                     Anpeocontoen of total wdult y..aptloio  nad 19 y-aO  androt
ym puolutlA_  f.o  191= t60l!69h0-7. no  1070-79.
Pooltit rothnae  enrec)-  rbc- dA-o1 itonh oeeor u-hec pop-                             oomooawllno
lattomaf or 190-60.  960-70. and 1970-79.                                               Cueeerl.o (p- thouea. AMonpo1lotlo) - P...-,-e rare comprise  aor
Crude Octh iot  (rer tounood)- Annual lion btrohs por thoceand of nod-yea                 otossnoting   letnhoo  igtinopros   -xcidntnIIh               -,lboctm    hn end
ropuoon19,190od  197  icon.                                                                     m1itotayo-hicas
louda tDahht  nrionn)- Annual douche P   th-aode  of aid-roar                                   tadto On-i'es(r  huci ounlul-ga  ye  o   iri -r    u  radio
pop.,Alatot  1960  1970, and 1979 data.                                                         b-od-aao  to 9-Tam 1a puhll  por cho-eofda   .porlnctio; noclode .. -
Icons roodoctt a -Aec..eS  number of dooghteren no                   ill hea  in                   licensed racoirvre in cottisad to ynar  oh..eiercnof -sdto
her nral1 -nprdotton polod if  hb. mosiscnpr-x  gs-epeif cc f so-                               erte was ioeffoo; data tin recent yer may to  be comparable sice
tility rAte; aeelytfr-po   asagcenig  o19                     17. ad 1939.                      weUooraaoihdlrxtag.i,
y~yP=aon  -   cntola, Anua fnheueanda  - dain1 nober of actponS                                 envr  (Ptt thousad ....nIatnon   - To onc.nrei-   f. orhrodae .to1
of birth--t-1ro  dricet ndr auspice of  altonl  family PLanig    grx                              tnoroltpbhlti per thousand ppleIon.; e.. lodt ulioetetdLTV neoi-so
Aaiy  lon- Users (torret of mcrid rmo  - Parcextoes of maroid                              icotot-ri.  and Ia yen-  tintretirut.too. of TW ta.  -r  It nf.lse.
romeo of chiild-h-itig age (15-44 yas   btac   irth-ooorol devt.. no                           PoEpen iclno   crth-uno  oolah                   h) - tow   the a rteir-
almrcid  -oa  it eso   gn group.                                                            oacon  f "do7gortItesrneaPrr,  n toed  anap oica`
Puhlioltaio  darotad d=rinaiy`to7ratordiP9 gnorl  tome   It itcnidtrnd
POh0f)ftHITlm                                                                                        to he "d.ily0  nf it appenre at tra..t four clone a .  nk.
loden of rood re-d-cion con Cauca (1969-71-100) - Index of Pot captia aconual                   tlo a -1ono Attexdan-  -a canito rePO c - aSed, oc rho o-nh- o
prodction of all fond t-editine.  Producit, on1idee tend nod fend and                           ticete aold during thepor  iecing odatinlon to dlit-b   ri-sa
leon -loodar y-a  hotin.  Coneditise core  primary good  ) .g. Sn--r--                          nod wi   unite..
itatnd of .so-) which are ibtla and cocftahonutients r. g..  co  fo   n
cntneloe) Aeegt                 eprolociun of enc, couttp is homed en                       [fLtPIOCE
-,t-Wa  a.nrgs produ.er:pic  oiho,; 19h61-61, 1970, And 1979 done.                            Total ohr room   thbuenda)     totsualyntton pane..n.. trludlng
Oar cnpitu  0mb of caloirn Irerr_t of crtcomaaotel - Compotofrmrd f                            foos  nl         I.plyn  but enludig hou-entae,sodc,nt.
e..orgy oqoirlent of otfood suPplies sonlabis in  -nooty per cat                               origpopolati_o of all mere.  tefinitloeho.r..                  ottis   p
per day.  A-nilabl  eupplime roplndonnenir prodottlo, layut  lasto -tP.rbr  1960. 1970 and 1979 data.
exots, ad  bhenge  it stork,  iNnt epplins maclde animal fed,. erde,                     Fenalt (rorno     - roml lbho  force as P-rcextge  of total labor force.
_uaoitie  usd in food proc-aing, And lieeen in dieioio                RPquirs-              ayiot-tUre(portent) - Laber force in finnig. for-tny. hoatiut nod
ettnon teica,itd by rAO bae..i on physhololal osa    f- oro-Ia acti-                    fthoga   er igs of tota  labor force; 1960, 1970 nod 1979 data.
rity adhalth cnadrit  riron-acl1 temperanuo,  id  i, bd                     AS.             Inusr  f .n...c   -Labor forc  it saiting    corcito.   aoatoo
andaediohoonopoiclnanelehg1  pereroyfno  "eer  at                                             an"t-oroly,neo               e gA nose   "ect-oon of cnl lbur foc;1960,
household ln-n; 19,61-65. 1970. And 1977 iota.                                                1970 mod 1979 dAta
ep rootto. nnyofrnaofcmradal-rotooteof                                f ptr cnto              Pariolaionair. P.      cc t -toa,   ILe nodfemal  - Pmctcipation cc
no   nnp  ffo  Pan doy,.lnernn   of toad Is ufinnaaro.a-nrdtycoe   rfrso                                             a   oo,1ee   odIml  labor forsa
roiro"'nn  f. oral  coutrine usthliehod by 07Sk p-lodi  for elotmu                            porooa- s. of tocal, male and fom1l popalatiuc of nil agna  -ep-ci-nly;
allu-tc  of 60 -ram  of Io-a Protoho Pro day nod 20 gree  of oimalso                          1960. 1970, erA  1979 dut      Th.. ~sars based ton l,la  potlicipationratrt
polon protroa.'of wh ich 10 tram   should bn animal poceho.  Thass stood-                     reflscninee-aotrno               fthn rylno . ad lotg time trend.A
erAs are lone  that thoas tf 75 gram  of total protnin and 23 trom   of                       fe  seimote  ae  ro  atioro..ococas.
annue  protisi  te at  -nsog  for the, wrld, Proposed by Pod in the Third                   fr-oit Dsprdec ..l Rm    oiaI of pcpulanioo oodnr 15 nod 65 and orer
trd  od -uoy; 11-5. 1970 and 1977 date,t   the conithortc.
Parenrto  roeinnorlyfro  anma nOd oe   - Penisi  supply of food de-
Pa   ditA frmPtiMaAn ple    gcas  prdy  1961-65. 1970 and 1977~daoa..                      IC9 lyIc(o
thd(ns 1-lnoclily Putt (oar choeo ) -.nul,eh    rthuodI                                     ecnae  fPinolc                 hit   nrs   o   id          R- i enrd by  iuch.a
tinns Attn drir-d ftran life cablon; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data,                                  of housholds.
LIfeto,  cecoI    "Srh(rat- krge nube  c( prone Of life r-maitit                                TeR'lei          nanetntwy a-eniotal  oasors-  of Pov.r.  inya,
atbith;t90 li   4197  nod1YT979'dato.7                                                         sod1 ehoold .betocncprrtnd 0ith  --oedarnblnaontoo..
lofac torttality Punt Ira  thoneand) - Annua dootba of infot  uoden Ott .n..                    neleaa          u o -Ponrt  tooa[oL-  (U00  -ro uirt-) -  rend rur-1
efanpothousad unbirths.                                                                   Anoosprry  roaiolista   oemn  hnn   hc      lta
hoc..n to hfn Pacer (percent of ....olacit-tcl  hn   n   ua      ne                                 urruul   dquodr   lsntotialro-fodrr                            thr  t   aisOct
he  o   eol  (tonal, urban, sod norl)  lt  oeonbl  at.r.s.  to safe                         fodhn
otter su,Pply (incue  trcd  ofo...oncoos or o.t-orltd but  -ootamnftd                            f-tmidloatlorP.        roIrn.ee  (oor  nio      ri  o   ua 
rarcenagee o  chnireapEciti-ppuRoclon.-loourbntbsa  apubli
-t-  -th    that f.-  = .d Wlahl..,            lyOttmatd Prultto  Or  dYolut poverty Itroma leve -reret P-  orben
do d nof her   btopeda dinrroori--bl        por of the-a ho-.  fetchIo thepor .1ih                                 -     f-ig-            oli            -b
Acces toturrts lroeid (olrrthat of    h-cloift - ct bal. t      fh th.sod me ld -.al    ll:tI     b1,1                                               -         P
Pomber of                           Prpm   (otal, uayen. tnd  urco) sten"a.hy1eurh.sldispuoul a
th    ilrto        isposal,  atibt or tithot cran tnsot  ofbana   art
pcmos. tquatf ledfrm    mdie  school en p     nlto.  Eretty  dipe.-I-      -d
lb'uTo,I:yti-   Idu-tvg    Al i-e  h rvo'Iunc  tb.tddh  ou hor of .ntt.
maeed fom1l  gradunts ouan, practice)  osa,od neetelant nures



- 25 -
Population         19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                                       ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita;  UsS 740 (1979)                                                                                                                          Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amoun t
(million US$ at                                      Annual Growth Rates (. )
current prices)                         Actual                                            Projected
Indicator                         1978           1976   1977   1978   1979 p/  1980 e/               1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTb
Gross domestic product _/   12t61              12.8    6.5      3.7      3.1       6.1              3.9      5.7       6.2      6.6      6.7
Agriculture                   2423          11.7  -13.2   19.1       0.8      10.0               3.5      3.5      3.5      3.5       3.5
Industry                     4052           9.8   10.0       1.1     2.9       2.9              4.0       6.0      7.4      7.4      7.4
bervices                     6168          14.8    9.6       1.9     3.7       6.9              4.0       5.2      6.2      6.9      7.0
Lor.sumption                    11203          11.7     2.0     7.4     3.3        5.1              4.0      2.3      4.1       4.8      6.0
Gross iv,estment                 3072          20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2         -5.8              -5.2     15.7     12.8    10.2        8.0
Emports of GNFS                  2260           6.3     9.8     3.8     5.5                         7.6      6.5      8.8       9.6      6.8
Inports of GNFS                  3869          23.8   13.5  -16.1   -1.1                           -0.3    -1.0       4.8      4.5       5.0
Gross national savings           1890          13.9   20.6  -16.6    11.5                          -2.2     20.9    10.6    14.1         7.7
PKIIGE.
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)            .        152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
E<coange rate (US$ per DH)           .         .226   .222    .240    .256       .254
share of COP at Market Prices (X)                                Average Annual Increase (2)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                    (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Gross uomeatic groduct                                                                  4.0         4.9        6.4         5.9        6.8
Agriculture -            29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                      3.5       -0.5         5.1         3.5        3.5
Industry b/              23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                      4.7        8.6         5.3        6.6         7.3
Services b/              47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                      4.1         5.5        7.3         5.9        7.2
consumption                 89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                      4.1         4.7        5.8         4.1        6.1
Gross investment            10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                      8.0        15.9       -2.4         9.4        7.3
Exports GNFb                27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                      1.3         2.6        6.3         8.0        7.2
Imports GNFS                26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  15.9                      3.5         7.2        2.1         2.7        4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                         3.5        13.1        3.1        10.0        8.7
As X of GDP
1960       1970        1975       1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCt
Current revenues                                     16.5       16.6        23.3       22.3
Current expenditures                                 15.6       14.9        20.2       21.7
Surplus (t) or deficit (-)                            0.9        1.7         3.1        0.6
Capital expenditure                                   3.8        5.9        12.2       12.1
Foreign financing                                      ..        1.4         3.7        5.5
1960-70   1970-75    1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
OTHER INDICATObS
GN? growth rate (X)                        4.0         6.0         5.9        5.6         6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (X)             1.6         3.1        3.0         2.5         3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (X)    3.8              6.7        4.3         5.9        6.8
ICO1                                       3.09        2.77       3.87        2.88       2.74
Marginal savings rate                      0.10        0.40      -0.002       0.33       0.24
Import elasticityS/                        0.95        1.44       0.28        0.76       0.80
0/ At market prices.
D/  Share or GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
e/  Estimate.
j/ Prelininary.
April 20, 1981
EMENA CP II-f



- 26 -
Population      :  19.ii (mid-1979)                                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita;  Ubs  740 (1979)                                                                                                Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                     Annual Growth Rates (X)
Ilouccator            (million Ust at                                 (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                   Actual                                        Projected
1978          1975    1976    1977   1978    1979e/ 1980   1981    1982    1983   1984    1985
EXIEkNAL ixADE
Nerculandise exports (FOB)         1502        -22.8    12.8      8.0     3.5      5.5       9.4     7.6      6.0     9.3   10.4      6.5
Primary produccs                1143       -25.3    13.1      2.1     3.8      3.5       8.2      3.8     3.9     4.1     4.3      4.3
Phosphate rock               488        -29.9    12.0      7.5   10.4      3.3        6.1     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Others                       655        -22.5    13.8   -0.9       0.0     3.6        9.8     3.0     3.2      3.4     3.7     3.9
Intermediate & manutactures 360             -8.5    11.0   36.0       2.3    11.4       12.6   17.5   10.7   20.7    21.7          9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)          2967         21.4      7.8   31.4  -26.4       9.7       -0.2     0.7     4.7      5.5     5.0     5.7
Food                            481         35.5  -24.0    32.9       8.6      2.0      -1.3   -5.1    -5.3   -5.1   -5.2          4.9
Petroleum                        427        12.8      2.9   14.5   10.7    12.2          3.9      3.8   -4.4      3.8     4.1      3.0
Machinery ano equipment          813         51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2            6.3      1.0    17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Ocners                          1246          5.2   14.8      4.9  -10.7    19.1        -3.5      2.4     4.5     5.4     5.4      3.2
PKlCcf   (1969 = iOO)
Export price inoex                ,            25t.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7           264.2  291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
Import price inoex                   .         205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4           293.4  326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms oi trade index                  .        125.1   98.2    90.4   89.5    91.8          90.0   89.4    91.0   91.9   93.1    93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                            Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1969 prices)
19t0     1970    1975   1980    1985   1990          1960-70  1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                                                                 2.0      -0.7          7.5        8.1         6.9
Primary products            89.5     89.7   86.9    73.7    61.3   59.8              ,       -2.2         4.7         4.1        6.0
Intermediates & manu-    10.5        10.4   13.1    26.3   38.7   40.2              ..        9.0        17.8       16.0         8.1
factures
Imports                                                                                 4.0        8.1         0.0        4.5         5.4
Food                        27.3     16.8   24.9    16.2       9.6     6.6           ..      14.0         0.8       -3.8        -1.8
Petroleum                    7.4       5.5   10.7   25.0   24.2   23.4               ..       9.5        10.2         1.8         2.0
Machinery and equipmsent  6.7        24.0   23.9   18.6    28.2   32.3               ,.      12.8        -3.0        11.3        8.7
Otners                      58.6     53.7   40.5   40.2    38.0   37.7               ..       3.8        -5.4         4.5         5.6
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)            Developing Countries (%)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
1960       1970        1975         1960        1970        1975      1960             1970              1975
D)IKEC'IION OF TKADE
Exports                           72.3        73.7        60.8         27.7       25.4        38.8         ..             0.9               0.4
Imports                           76.7        74.9       65.7         23.3        25.1        33.9         ..               ..              0.4
e/  Estimate.                                                                                                    April 20, 1981
EMENA CP II-B



- 27 -
ilopauatuns    i9.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                                                       ANNEX I
GNPI Per Capita:  Ub$ 740 (1979)                                                                                                                                          Page 6 of 6
MOOCO   B LANCE OP PYMENTS,, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(mlio    O  at current prices)
Indicator                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~Actual                                                    Projected
1970      1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980!'      1~981    198-2   1983   1984    1985         1990
SALANCE OP PAYMENIs
EXPerts oc goods ass aervices                    775       2580      2288       2486       2955       3694        4318        5136     5852      6758    7872   8926    16088
Of WseiE:h  l4rchandise f.o.b.               488       1530       1245       1283       1488      1938        2413        2851      3314     3951   4759    5477    10336
i.P0OLO  01 go...o an d servicen                 946      3134       3691       4364       4353       5268        5794        6369     6899      7911   9791   9865    16604
Of weech;  Merchandise f.o.b.                625       2267       2305      2820       2628       3245        3734        4158      4693     5344    6046   6846    12178
bet c-rreoc crooero                               27          N         47         52         50        44          66           -         -         -       -         
L-crent -ozeant s'alance                        -144      -546      -1355      -1826      -1348      -1530       -1410       -1233    -1047    -1153   -919    -939        -516
opens)1 gracs                                     ..        100       435        360        260        420          96         300       250      200      150     100         -
Curren  acnnslasce after grows                  -144       -446      -920      -1466      -1088      -1110       -1314        -933     -797      -953   -4769    -839      -516
Pri-ate capital                                   21         21         38         53        45         37          ..          25        28        31      35      39        79
MUI-lon   (nor)                                  90        304        336      1338       1109        946        1098        1083       901     1121      882     979       727
Officioal.                                                ..        ..         .                                            716      643       683     554     612       618
Private                                        .          .         .           .         ..         .           .         367       159       437     329     368       109
Otoer~ capitol                                    56        104         30         68       ,73         73         -79         -70       -42      -30        -        -        -
hoo-tory nav-sients                              -23         17         16          6          8        53         295        -105       -89     -169   -147   -179        -289
...ron Isn rsre                            161        437        548        609        772       917         814         972      1061      1229    1376    1556      2681
of units:  Gold                               21         85         82        104        154       360         415         360       360       360     360     360       360
xeseror  as ...oths  imports                     2.0        1.7        1.8        1.7       2.1        2.1         1.7         1.8       1.8      1.9      1.9     1.9       1.9
f~XIi&ANA. CAPITAL AND DEBT 1/
Cmos6 disbsroemeots                              175        6b4        736       1783      1191       1434
Coir s... e   jeanI   ..s                      ..       164        121        634        334       321
DAf                                                  109         73       107        100         76
OPEC                                       ..         42        41        507        189        179
lIOA                                       ..          1         4          3          -          -
OIlher                                     ..         13          3        17         45         66
Non-concessional loans..                                500        614       1151        857      1113
Official export credits                    .           3         22        27          2          2
1860                                       16       110         59         68         72        137
Other multilateral1                                    7          2          7        51          7
Private                                    25       380        531       1049        732        967
euppliers credits                      .         127         10        171         18          8
Fion-cial credits sod bsnos            .         253        521        878        722       959
Debt  -satotnding ... nusbursed              703       1753       2341      4078       5139       6185        6987
Utficiol                                   .       1121       1281       1984       2473       2842        3212
Private                                    ..       632       1080       2094       2666       3343        3775
U.di-crsed nest                              239        652        805      1026       2283       2246
Debt service
Tote) service payments                         58       143        162        265        548       799        1023
Int.eret                                   23        50         66        148        252       411          533
Payments as 4. ..ports of Gob                7.5        5.6        7.1       10.7       18.5      21.6        23.7
Average  interest rate ono new loan.s (0.           4.4        7.3        7.5        6.8        6.9        8.3
Av-rag    aL-tYrit   f -01  O   loans (year)        18.5      14.7       12.2       13.1       13.3       15.8
As 0 of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1979)
liatirsty structure of debtsoaadn
Maturities  one sitris 5 years                                                  38.5
Macesion dse within 10 years                                                    73.2
Isrerest structur oi debt outstanding
Interet doe within first sear                                                    6.9
April 30, 1981
EPIENA EP IT-N
F/-ro  1k6K1 Eatorna   Debt keperting System.  There are si.esble discrepanc.ies  in some years between the external topical and debt serice  flows
repertes ener the lBk33 Deht System and tnose recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown is the opper part of this table.
c/  stlmiell,



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                            US$ Million_
Credit                                                                  Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                 Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans      Fully disbursed                               392.9
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                            36.0
1017           1974       Maroc-Phosphore          Industry              50.0                     0.4
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              32.0                    11.5
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                         14.0        12.6
1123           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              18.5                     2.3
1201           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              30.0                     9.4
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                  21.0                    12.9
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education                25.0                   21.5
1299           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    49.0                     1.9
1361           1977       CNCA                     Agriculture           35.0                     0.0*
1383           1977       CIOR                     Industry              45.0                     0.7
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              41.0                   39.8
1428           1977       BNDE                     DFC                   45.0                    19.1
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering               1.5                     1.1
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                         15.9
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              65.0                   62.7
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore          Industry              50.0                    13.9
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               113.0                  112.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                25.0                   16.9
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                     Agriculture           70.0                    56.9
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             49.0                   43.7
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              58.0                    53.3
S-18           1980       BRPM                     Oil Exploration       50.0                   42.5
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                  62.0                   62.0
18481/         1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              34.0                   34.0
1943           1981       CIH                      Tourism              100.0                  100.0
19441/         1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                        36.0
Total                                                            1557.9**    50.0         825.8
of wbich has been repaid                                        186.4         0.8
Total now outstanding                                            1373.0        49.2
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                   17.7                    2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   1369.1        49.2
Total undisbursed                                                 813.2        12.6       825.8
NOTE
1/ Not yet effective.
*   US $40,783.65 undisbursed.
** An $87 million loan for a Third Water Supply Project was approved on May 28, 1981, but has
yet to be signed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of April 30, 1981)
US$ Million_
Loan      Equity   Total
1963/1978            BNDE                          Development Bank            -        2.7       2.7
1966                 CIL                           Canning Factory            0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                 Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory              -        1.4       1.4
1977                 Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.8        3.5       8.3
1980                 SOMIFER                       Copper Mining            13.0        2.3      15.3
Total Gross Commitments                                                 18.7      10.4      29.1
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales            13.7        3.4      17.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                                       17.5       9.2      26.7
Total Undisbursed                                                        4.0       0.4       4.4



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C.        PROJECTS IN EXECUTION!/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane transport equipment ($0.7 million).
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the costs of additional
infrastructure works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement made
in July 1980.
Ln. No. 1123         Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The tube wells required for new irrigated areas (6,400 ha) were
completed and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing
and distribution as well as construction of the Project Headquarters and
Development Centers have been completed. Works related to the social
components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are now
underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the
operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel,
causing 2 years delay in project implementation, and consequent cost
overruns. A revised work program has been prepared to reflect this.
Agricultural yields are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million
of June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and works have
been started in the remaining three districts. Progress is slower than
expected, mainly because project implementation proves more complex than
anticipated. However, the first results of the completed components are
promising. Because of the initial delay and the complexity in
implementation, the original closing date was extended by three years.
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems whicb are being encountered, and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and
with the undertanding that they do not purport to present a
balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Construction of irrigation and drainage works is nearly complete. The first
4,600 ha. bave been completed and put in service. Completion of the remainder
is underway. Agricultural development has been satisfactory. The loan is
expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of infrastructure works and public facilities
for developing Agadir into a major tourism area. Most infrastructure works
were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of public
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to administrative and project management problems. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months, and an extension of
the closing date will be considered.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. After an initial two-year delay,
there has been improvement in project implementation. Construction of primary
schools, secondary schools, a teacher training college and a rural development
and extension training center is largely completed. Construction is well
underway for other components. Disbursements under the loan are expected to
increase in the near future. However, there is an overall delay of two years
in project implementation.
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Chebo - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam, of a
120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation and of about 200 km of
225-KV transmission line, and the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and power station. The dam,
reservoir power plant, and one transmission line have been completed and
commissioned. The second transmission line is under construction. The
project sbould be fully completed in the near future and disbursements are on
schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million of
February 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production and
at expanding the capability of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
as an agricultural lending institution. The project covered most of CNCA's
program for medium- and long-term lending through August 1979 and included
related technical assistance. Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing
on-farm investments of small farmers, cooperatives and farmers' associations.
Virtually all the Bank loan is disbursed, with the exception of funds for
technical assistance, for which disbursements began only in late 1980. The
loan is expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln No. 1383   CIOR Cement Project; USt45.0 million of April 19, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distribution
facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory. Training of key
personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The cement plant
started operation in January 1979, and the distribution center, in July 1980.
The Bank loan has been virtually fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco which caused an initial delay of about
two years. However, project implementation has resumed vigorously and the
initial delay may be fully recovered.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is virtually fully committed and about two-thirds disbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. S-7   Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date; March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. Construction is proceeding
satisfactorily; however, there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects
of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1979;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Althougb somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency
coordination.
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phospboric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
storage facilities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and
commercial operations have begun. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US;25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in virtually full commitment of the loan within the first year of the
project.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems have initially delayed project start-up. Consultants have been
recruited and are engaged on the project. Procurement of engineering services
is in progress.
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA's) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD
and KfW. Disbursements are on schedule, CNCA's financial position may become
tight due to the recent drought, but its lenders, including the Bank, are
considering an increase in their disbursement percentages which should
alleviate CNCA's problems.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections, and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million of
November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to the cold winter. However, for the first
time since 1972/73, total exports have been higher than in preceeding years.
Ln. No. S-18 Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the petroleum
exploration and development efforts of the Bureau de Recherches et
Participation Miniere (BRPM), the national enterprise for oil and mineral
exploitation and development (excluding phosphates). It also provides
technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis of results of
exploration, and exploration management. Drilling has been started with
encouraging results and some of the consultants have been hired.
Administrative problems delayed initial disbursements.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1830 Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning. The project is progressing satisfactorily. All
contracts for the first year of implementation have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1848 Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of;
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated througbout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land.  Project effectiveness has been delayed for
administrative reasons.
Ln. No. 1943 Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects.
Ln. No. 1944 Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Not yet effective; Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Although the
project is not yet effective, implementation is underway and ahead of schedule.



-36-
Annex III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                  About six months (June 1980
through November 1980)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:          Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, Office pour le
Developpement Industriel (ODI)
(c) Project first presented to Bank:              June 1980
(d) First Bank mission to review the Project:  June 1980
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:               October 25, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations:                   May 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                September 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)    execution of a convention between the Government and BNDE for
administration of the loan (paragraph 57);
(b)    conclusion of standard conventions by BNDE, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, with not less than three commercial
banks, including the Banque Centrale Populaire (paragraph 57).
2. Other Special Conditions:
(a)    Policy Making Unit for SSI to be strengthened (paragraph 62);
(b)    limits for SSI subproject eligibility, and allocation of loan
amounts (paragraph 59);



-37-
Annex III
Page 2
(c)    cost per job limits (paragraph 60);
(d)    interest rates and minimum financial and economic rates of return
for sub-loans (paragraphs 56 and 59);



