                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27663

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                            (SCL-43170)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.0 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                            BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                              FOR A

                     PUBLIC SECTOR LEGISLATIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE

                                   MODERNIZATION PROJECT

                 (FORMER PUBLIC SECTOR AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT)




                                         February 25, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Depatment
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective January 25, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Bolivares
                               VEB 1.598,00 = US$ 1
                                    US$ 1.00 = 0.625VEB

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




CAS:            Country Assistance Strategy
CORDIPLAN:      Planning and Development Office
IDB:            Inter-American Development Bank
IPID:           Integral Plan for Institutional Development
MPD:            Ministry of Planning and Development
MTC:            Ministry of Transport and Communications
PCU:            Project Coordination Unit
QAG:            Quality Assurance Group




                             Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                           Country Director:      Marcelo M. Giugale
                            Sector Director:      Ernesto May
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         David F. Varela

                                          VENEZUELA
PUBLIC SECTOR LEGISLATIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
             (FORMER PUBLIC SECTOR AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT)


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
  1. Project Data                                                                    1
  2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
  3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
  4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
  5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
  6. Sustainability                                                                  6
  7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   6
  8. Lessons Learned                                                                 8
  9. Partner Comments                                                                9
  10. Additional Information                                                       10
  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             11
  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             12
  Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             13
  Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             14
  Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             16
  Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                17
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            18

Project ID: P041807                                                  Project Name: PUBLIC SECTOR LEGISLATIVE AND
                                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                                                                     (FORMER PUB SEC MOD & DECEN)
Team Leader: David F. Varela                                         TL Unit: LCCVE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PUBLIC SECTOR LEGISLATIVE AND                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-43170
                            ADMINISTRATIVE MODERNIZATION
                            PROJECT (FORMER PUB SEC MOD &
                            DECEN)
   Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (69%); Central government
                            administration (31%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                            privatization (P); Debt management and fiscal substainability (S);
                            Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/05/1996                                     Effective: 06/28/1999
     Appraisal: 06/25/1997                                         MTR: 11/01/2004
      Approval: 04/23/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 04/01/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela/Ministry of Planning and Development
                      Other Partners:      Inter-American Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo M. Giugale                             Andrés Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Kkrishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             David F. Varela                                Antonio Martín del Campo
ICR Primary Author:             David F. Varela


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Public Sector Legislative and Administrative Modernization Project (former Public Sector and
Modernization Project), originally had the following objectives: (a) increase public sector capacity to
manage State productive enterprises and infrastructure, and to improve the fiscal and financial status of
participating state governments, through the promotion of private sector participation; and (b) strengthen
the national regulatory framework in selected transport sub-sectors, and modernize institutional structures
in the national government.

The first objective was consistent with the decentralization process that began in Venezuela in 1989 with
the direct election of Governors and Mayors, that initiated a transfer process of several functions (among
them the operation and maintenance of roads, ports and airports) and diverse productive enterprises from
the national to state governments. This objective was also related to the fiscal constraints of the country,
and in general to the low management capacity of the state governments that forced them to explore other
ways to manage effectively the assets and the public services recently transferred to them through private
sector participation.

The second objective was aimed at supporting an organizational and functional restructuring in the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), in order to strengthen its role in regulation and
supervision in the transport sub-sector. This objective was in line with a national strategy that promoted the
delegation of operative functions to the state governments. This objective was also related to the
rationalization of the institutional structure at the national government level.

The project was aligned with one of the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved in
1997, which was "to modernize the public sector." It was also in line with the other CAS objective to
"support sustainable growth" through private sector participation in the productive activities that were
transferred to the state governments. Likewise, the project was designed in conjunction with the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) which co-financed fifty percent of the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The government that took office in February 1999 decided to review the project design and in January 2000
requested the Bank to refocus it on activities responsive to the challenges posed by the constitutional and
administrative reforms then in progress, as well as to adapt the implementation arrangements to the revised
institutional framework of the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD). On the basis of this request
the Bank reformulated the Project objectives and components and undertook a major restructuring. At that
point, the IDB decided to withdraw its support of project and canceled the respective Loan.

The Bank preferred to continue with the project even though it was aware of the high risks involved in that
decision, because the restructured Project would reflect the new government priorities, and might become
the appropriate vehicle for maintaining a dialogue with MPD in the area of public sector reforms, which
both the Bank and the Government considered strategic.

The general objective of the reformulated project would have been to improve the efficiency and efficacy of
the Venezuelan public sector. The specific objectives would be to: (a) lay the foundations for a new
inter-governmental regime that improve economic efficiency in the allocation of public resources; (b)



                                                        - 2 -

modernize the public sectors regulatory framework and business practices to increase the transparency,
efficiency, efficacy, and social control governing public administration; (c) strengthen the Governments
management capacity in key basic administrative areas; and (d) support the decentralization process and
promote good decentralization practices within the sub-national governments. The reformulated Project
would support the national Governments initiatives based on an Integral Plan for Institutional Development
(IPID). The reformulated objectives were also consistent with the public sector modernization objective of
the 1997 CAS.

The restructured Project had a different focus. First, the objectives related to the activities that would have
a national impact were more ambitious than in the original project. Second, the aspects related to the
decentralization process were aimed more to strengthening the national governments capacity to direct it
rather than to develop the capacity of the decentralized institutions. Third, the privatization of public
enterprises, which was one of the fundamental objectives in the original Project, was eliminated.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project had the following components:

I.       Privatization at State Level would support four pilot state governments (three of them already
defined, and a fourth one to be defined), through the design and implementation of customized strategies for
privatizing productive activities and granting of concessions for the construction, operation and
maintenance of transport infrastructures. The component would finance specific privatization initiatives. A
Private Sector Development Team would provide technical assistance to the participating states for strategy
development and implementation.

II.      Reform and Decentralization at National Level, would support reforms in the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC) to restructure its organization and personnel, strengthen
supervisory functions, and develop regulatory and competition frameworks in the transport sub-sectors
(e.g., airports and ports). This component would also finance restructuring studies to support the wider
public sector programs of the government.

III.     Project Coordination would be the responsibility of CORDIPLAN (institution that in 1999 was
converted into MPD); there would be an Executive Committee comprising the Ministers of CORDIPLAN
and MTC, and the participating governors, which would supervise the implementation. Two technical
groups, a Private Sector Development Team, and a Public Modernization Team would support the Project
Coordination Unit. In each state and in the MTC specific coordination units would be responsible for
implementation of the respective components.

3.4 Revised Components:

The reformulated Project would have had four components:

A.       Development of the Public Sector's Basic Legal Framework. This component would provide
the technical-assistance and goods required for the preparation, discussion, approval, and/or
implementation of:

l The Inter-Territorial Compensation Fund Law and Sub-National Finances Law together with the
    corresponding regulations which were envisaged as part of the National Assembly's legislative agenda
    during 2002.



                                                     - 3 -

l The administrative regulations necessary to develop and implement recently approved laws in the area
    of Public Sector Reform. This component would have supported the development of regulations for the
    following laws: Public Administration Organic Law, Civil Service Act (including a Public Sector
    Wage Policy), the Simplification of Administrative Procedures Law, and the Social Participation and
    Control Law. In the case of the Simplification of Administrative Procedures Law, the Project would
    have also financed the simplification of two administrative procedures on a pilot basis.

B.       Strengthening of the public sector's management capacity to support the implementation of
the new legal framework. This component would have financed the technical assistance and the
acquisitions of goods and services required to perform key management functions for the implementation of
a new legal framework. In particular, this component would have financed the implementation of: (a) a
modern and automatized Public Employee Registry; (b) an individual performance evaluation system; (c)
an on-line public procurement system; and (d) an institutional performance evaluation system.

C.       Support to the Decentralization Process. This component would have supported the provision of
technical assistance to enhance the central Government's ability to monitor and supervise the
decentralization process and to promote good decentralization practices at the sub-national level. This
could have included the financing of seminars and workshops to disseminate successful decentralization
experiences, such as in case of the State of Carabobo, and to help facilitate inter-governmental learning and
coordination.

D.       Project Coordination. This component would strengthen the operational capacity of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) by financing the technical assistance necessary to manage adequately the
implementation of Project activities.



                Component                              Cost                       Rating
Basic Public Sector Legal Framework                $870,000.00                      HU
Strengthening of PS Management                  $3,730,000.00                       HU
Capacity to Implement new Legal
Framework
Support to Decentralization Process:            $2,480,000.00                       HU
Project Coordination                               $920,000.00                       U


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The original projects objectives were consistent not only with the CAS but also with the Government's
priorities at the design time. Similarly, project components were equally aligned to the strategy and to the
priorities agreed between the Government and the Bank. In connection with the privatization process to be
developed at the state level there was an extensive participation process not only with the Governors and
their staff, but also with representatives of community organizations, through workshops held in each
participant state.

However, the risk that the signing of the Loan Agreement a few days before a new Government took office
was not properly assessed, taking into account that the incoming President during his electoral campaign
had strongly questioned the Governments of the past 40 years. In retrospect, it is clear that it would have



                                                     - 4 -

been more cautious to delay the signing ceremony, considering that eight months had elapsed since the
Project had been approved by the Bank's Board and implementation had not started; to ensure ownership
the Bank could have waited for the new Government's review of the objectives and components, and
considered the possibility of an early restructuring to align the Project to the new Government's priorities.

The duration of the Project's formulation, negotiation and approval processes clearly exceeded the Bank
standards. From the identification mission (March 1995) until signing (December 1998) almost 4 years
elapsed; in other words, Project preparation began when the Caldera Administration had only been in
power one year and was signed when the same Administration had only a few months left. The same task
manager was responsible of the whole preparation process and from the technical point of view the Project
was well formulated and the quality at entry review rated it as satisfactory (S).

The intermediate stage of the restructuring process was relatively short. In spite of the complexity of
certain issues, the reformulation and renegotiation processes were finalized by the Bank and the MPD
teams in approximately six months (August 2001 to March 2002); likewise, progress was made in ensuring
that the restructured Project would be operational immediately after the Board approved the respective
amendment, through the preparation of the PCUs Operative Manual and Financial Administrative System
by local consultants working in conjunction with Bank staff; additionally, the Government prepared a
Project Implementation Plan for the Bank's review and approval.

However, there were serious delays for the Government and the Bank to initiate the formal restructuring
process, and once the Project had been reformulated and negotiated, the MPD further delayed the final
decisions. Both delays (more than three years and a half) concluded with the request for Loan cancellation
in a letter sent by the Minister of MPD on November 19, 2002; as a consequence, the proposed amendment
to the Loan Agreement was never submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors.

This was always a risky project and was carefully treated as such. The CMU and SMU worked closely
together, with high level discussions, several missions, and extensive communications on how to handle it.
The decision to restructure and extend the Loan in early 2002 was appropriate on country relations
grounds. A new Minister of MPD had specifically requested that approach, considering the Project as a
vehicle for a reinvigorated reform effort and as a clear signal of Bank's support for such effort.

The alternative of canceling the Project and preparing a new operation was rejected for various reasons: (a)
the Government's overall objectives remain the same; (b) the restructured operation would directly support
the implementation of the Government's Comprehensive Institutional Development Plan, which is the
facilitating framework underlying the Government's State Modernization Program; (c) restructuring the
Project would enable the Bank to respond expeditiously to the Government's request for assistance; (d)
given the prevailing social and political climate, the "building-block" approach embedded in the
restructured project seemed the most promising of all possible alternatives; and (e) the streamlined design
of the restructured project would be completed with existing in-house information and expertise.

The situation in Venezuela however continued to deteriorate. Key project counterparts were replaced, the
Loan did not disburse, and project implementation was further delayed. The strategy did not pay off but, as
a decision path, it was the only possibility under the circumstances. The Bank discussed the status of the
Loan with the Government, and the Government agreed to request its cancellation. Immediately thereafter,
the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) delivered the final report on the evaluation of the quality of
the Project's supervision (QSA5) for the period 2001-2002 with marginal rating.




                                                      - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Not Applicable. This Project was not Implemented.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Not Applicable. This Project was not Implemented.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable. This Project was not Implemented.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable. This Project was not Implemented.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Not Applicable. This Project was not Implemented.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Not Applicable. This Project was not implemented.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Not Applicable. This Project was not implemented.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Not Applicable. This Project was not implemented.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not Applicable. This Project was not implemented.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Not Applicable. This Project was not implemented.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not Applicable. This Project was not implemented.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                     - 6 -

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory. The technical quality of the project and the negotiation process could be rated as
satisfactory. However, the excessive duration of the preparation process leads to an unsatisfactory rating
(since the first identification mission at the beginning of a Government period until the Loan Agreement
was signed at the end of the same Government period, the Task Team took almost four years). During that
period the political context had substantially changed, and that was not rapidly reflected in Project design;
this led to a difficult situation in which a Project that had been approved by the Banks Board of Directors
and signed by the outgoing Administration could not be implemented because the incoming Government
asked for some time to review it.

The restructuring efforts ended with a quality technical proposal that could be rated as satisfactory but the
delays on the Bank and the Government side diminished the feasibility of a reformulated Project. Although
the new Government requested the Bank in January 2000 to change the project objectives and components,
the reformulation did not begin until August 2001; during that period the Project was under the
responsibility of four Task Managers.

7.2 Supervision:

Unsatisfactory. As mentioned before, in December 2002 QAG delivered the final report on the quality of
the Projects supervision which considered the comments jointly prepared by the Country Management and
the Sector Management Units (CMU and SMU) to a preliminary draft. The report considers the
supervisions global quality as marginal. As a rationale for this rating, the panel explained that "...neither
the country nor the Bank interests were served by the use of supervision for interminable attempts at
project restructuring during the whole period under review (FY01-02). The panel recognizes that the
decision was taken on country relations grounds, based on information available at the time, and, most
recently, at the specific request of a new Finance (sic) Minister in early 2002. Nevertheless, the panel
does not consider the responses from the Bank effective overall during the period under review."

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Unsatisfactory. Considering the ratings on the lending and supervision sections above, the overall Bank
performance is considered unsatisfactory (U).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Unsatisfactory. The Bank's Board of Directors approved the original project on April 23, 1998; however,
the Loan Agreement was signed on December 12, 1990 because the Government was not able to comply
before with the formalities related to the prior approvals required for signing; according to the legislation in
force at that time, the Loan Agreement had to be approved by the Finance Committees of the two Chamber
of the National Congress. Even though the external financing was authorized by the Law that authorizes
the national Government to contract public credit operations during 1997, this Loan was not approved by
said committees until November 18, 1998. During the restructuring process, on the side of the Government
there were also excessive delays and serious coordination problems at the highest level of MPD. First,
although the new Government took office in February 1999, it was almost a year later (in January 2000)
that requested a change of the original objectives. Once a new team in the Minister of Planning and
Development took over in May 2002, it wished to revise the reformulated and renegotiated Project even



                                                       - 7 -

though the process had finished in March 2002. The new Minister requested the incorporation of a new
component related to the development of a technological platform, whose inclusion had a major impact on
the design of the already renegotiated Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory. The Project was not implemented because the Government's delays made implementation
unfeasible, and its performance is rated as Unsatisfactory (U).

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Unsatisfactory. The Project was not implemented because the Implementing Agencies delays made
implementation unfeasible, and its performance is rated as Unsatisfactory (U).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory. The Project was not implemented. Because the Borrower's delays made implementation
unfeasible, its performance is rated as Unsatisfactory (U).


8. Lessons Learned


8.1      Political changes have considerable impact on Project design and implementation. The Bank should
be more sensitive to the political changes taking place in a country (such as a new government, or a
minister change in an implementing institution), in order to analyze the implications, moreover when the
Project has not been approved, signed or implementation has not begun.

8.2      Time-bound action plans and legal remedies are basic tools during a restructuring process. When a
project restructuring is needed, the Bank should agree with the Government on a time-bound action plan,
with specific benchmarks and milestones, in order to avoid never-ending discussions. If key benchmarks or
milestones are not reached, it may be more appropriate to exercise the unilateral rights to suspend and
cancel the operation, as per the standard provisions of the Loan Agreements and the General Conditions.

8.3      Proactivity is required at all stages of Project design and implementation. Whenever changes occur
at the level of a minister or vice minister of the executing agency, the Task Team should take the initiative
to approach the new authorities, clarify any doubts that they could have about the Project, and make
special efforts to involve and commit them to the process.

8.4      Timing of signing is critical: the benefits of prompt signature may be superseded by the costs in
terms of loss of ownership. Project approval or signing around the time of a Presidential election or
inauguration may be highly counterproductive even for the best technically designed operation. In case a
change in the policy approach is likely, the Bank should assess the risk that the new Administration may
become suspicious of Bank's agreements with the prior Administration; this risk is even higher when the
incoming Government has publicly announced a radical departure from the economic and social policies of
the previous one. Project approval or signing around that time may seriously impair its overall feasibility
and sustainability.

8.5      Frequent changes in Task Manager may be counterproductive. While the continuity of task
manager may assist in the generation of sound technical proposals at the design stage, the frequent changes


                                                       - 8 -

at the time of supervision may erode the quality of the constant dialogue and follow up required for Project
implementation to proceed smoothly.

8.6      Participation and consultation devices are required at all stages of the Project cycle. Participation
and consultation are not exhausted during the preparation. For future State reform projects, it is essential to
built-in consultation and participation mechanisms with stakeholders external to the implementing agency,
in order to stimulate the internal decision-making process.

8.7      Coordination with other partners should go beyond the financial and technical aspects of an
operation. The Bank should coordinate closely its decision-making process with multilateral or bilateral
partners, in order to take joint decisions at the project design or implementation stages. The withdrawal of
one co-financier may be a serious alarm signal, that definitively could indicate major troubles for the
projects future. Efforts to continue alone with the operations designed in conjunction with other donors may
prove disappointing.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

On May 21, 2003, the Vice Minister of MPD provided the following comments on the Final Report/Public
Sector Modernization and Decentralization Project:

"As regards the Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Bank, let me say that we share the
opinion expressed in the report, however, with a few observations which could be described as lessons
learned.

The project was signed on December 16, 1998, when a new government, with a different point of view
on State modernization and the way to approach privatization had officially come into office. This fact
should have made evident that the project's political and institutional feasibility merited consideration.

Likewise, it should be pointed out that from August 2001 on, the period in which I took over the Office
responsible for the project, efforts were made to speed up the process (however, the Bank's speed was not
the same).

In relation to the Bank's expenditure on the project in areas such as: missions, personal, for both the
original and reformulated project, we are not in a position to judge these as supposedly these were
expenses the Bank entered into independently, with the exception of those to which the MPD gave its no
objection, as is the case of several authorized missions."




                                                       - 9 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 10 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Not Applicable. This project was not implemented.




                                                 - 11 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable. This project was not implemented.




                                                 - 12 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable. This project was not implemented.




                                                 - 13 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/94                     1    Task Manager

              2/95                      4    Task Manager, Specialist in
                                             Privatization, in Institutional
                                             Development and in Transport

              3/96                      2    Task Manager, Specialist in
                                             Privatization

              7/96                      4    Task Manager, Specialist in
                                             Privatization, Specialist in
                                             Decentralization, Specialist in
                                             Privatization

              11/96                     2    Specialist in Privatization,
                                             Specialist in Air Transportation


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              7/97                      3    Task Manager, Lawyer,
                                             Specialist in Privatization

              8/97                      1    Specialist in Privatization

              9/97                      2    Task Manager, Specialist in
                                             Privatization

              11/97                     2    Task Manager, Specialist in
                                             Privatization


 Supervision

              11/20/1998                2    Task Manager; Consultant              S               S

              12/03/1999                2    Task Team Leader; Privatization       S               S

              06/29/2000                3    Task Manager; Operations              S               S
                                             Analyst; Privatization/Restruct

              05/09/2001                2    Task Team Leader; Sector              U               U
                                             Leader

              08/31/2001                1    Task Manager                          U               U

              11/01                     5    Task Manager, Country



                                              - 14 -

                                                         Economist, Lawyer, Specialist in
                                                         Procurement, Financial Specialist

               3/02                                2     Task Manager, Lawyer

               6/02                                1     Procurement Specialist

               9/02                                1     Task Manager

 ICR
                                                   2      Task Manager, Consultant

The project was not implemented

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         92.5             282.8 (189.4 in staff,
                                                                       90.2 in travel, 3.2 in
                                                                                      others
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              28.5               80.2 (56.9 in staff,
                                                                      21.5 in travel and 1.8
                                                                                  in others)
  Supervision                                        69.9             293.1 (210.2 in staff,
                                                                         46.6 in travel and
                                                                             36.3 in others)
  ICR                                                  3.0                 8.0 (8.0 in staff)

  Total                                             193.9             664.1 (464.5 in staff,
                                                                        158.3 in travel and
                                                                             41.3 in others)
NOTE SUPERVISION: Although the project was not implemented, in the Bank financial information these
amounts appear allocated to supervision during the years 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001. Supervision was mostly
associated with the restructuring efforts, assistance to the Project Coordination Unit, and reprogramming of
project implementation activities.




                                                          - 15 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA


Not applicable. This project was not implemented in either its original or reformulated form.




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1.   Project Appraisal Report, Public Sector Modernization and Decentralization Project, February 12,
 1998.
 2.   Project Appraisal Document, Public Sector Legislative and Administrative Modernization Project
 (Former Public Sector Modernization and Decentralization).
 3.   Public Sector Legislative and Administrative Modernization Project, Quality of Supervision
 Assessment (QSA5), December 2002.
 4.   BTOR of the Identification Mission for the Proposed Public Sector Modernization and
 Decentralization Project, March 21, 1995 ( Martin del Campo).
 5.   Minute of the PCD Review Meeting for the proposed Public Sector and Modernization Project,
 October 2, 1996. (Martín del Campo).
 6.   Several Back to Office Reports.
 7.   Twelve (12) Project Status Reports of different dates (in archive).
 8.   Several letters between Bank Task Managers and representatives of the Minister of Planning and
 Development.
 9.   Several letters between Bank Task Managers and their Bank superiors.
 10. Letter from the Ministry of Planning and Development dated 1/11/2000 to the Bank requesting the
 changes to the objectives of the original project.
 11. Letter from the Ministry of Planning and Development dated 11/19/2002 to the Bank requesting
 Project cancellation.




                                                  - 18 -

- 19 -

