Report No. PIC3328
Project Name                     Venezuela-Public Sector Modernization r(n) 
and Decentralization Project (PSMoD)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       VEPA41807
Borrower Agency                  The Republic of Venezuela
Executing Agencies               Selected States and selected
Central Ministries
Date this PID Prepared           June12, 1997
Date initial PID Prepared        January 29, 1996
Project Appraisal Date           June 25, 1997
Project Board Date               November 6, 1997
1.      Background: Since the first round of gubernatorial and
municipal elections in 1989, Venezuela has been in the process of
transferring responsibilities to the states. Already a large number
of functions , including productive enterprises, is being
administered by the State governments. Recent macroeconomic
measures toward fiscal restraint as well as limited resources and
capacity at the state level have prompted the state governments to
seek innovative solutions to managing assets and services. Some of
these initiatives mirror reforms at the national level to divest
from operating functions and creating appropriate legal and
regulatory frameworks. As a result the project strategy is to
support: state governments efforts to privatize productive assets
within consistent national reform strategies, the adoption of
normative/regulatory frameworks in the airport and ports sectors,
the privatization initiatives of the Ministry of Communications and
Transport (MTC), its organizational and functional restructuring
and institutional strengthening activities. Substantial progress
has been made during preparation with the States of Falc6n (e.g. on
hotel sold and three more in process) and Sucre (e.g. salt mines
and one port already privatized), and with MTC (e.g. bidding
documents prepared for airport infrastructure). The project, which
builds upon the experience of a Bank region-wide initiative to
support subnational governments privatization programs, will make a
substantial contribution to the wider Public Sector Reform program
being implemented by the Government. It is expected that, if the
pilot experiences are successful, the model will be expanded to
other interested states in a larger follow-up operation.
2.      Project Objectives. The objectives of the project are to:
-- Increase efficiency in the management of state productive
enterprises and infrastructure, and improve the fiscal and
financial situation of participating state governments, by
promoting private sector participation.



-- Strengthen the national regulatory framework in the
transport subsectors, increase efficiency in the
management of national transport infrastructure, and
rationalize existing institutional structures.
3.      Project Description. The project has two components:
a) privatization at the State level; and b) reform and
decentralization at the National Government.
4.      Privatization at the State Level. This component, which
builds upon the experience of a Bank region-wide initiative to
support subnational governments privatization programs, would
support three pilot state governments tailor and execute a
customized strategy for transferring to the private sector
productive public enterprises and the construction, operations and
maintenance of transport infrastructure. The best modalities for
private sector participation will be applied on a case-by-case
basis, including concessions, contracting out, sale of assets, etc.
While the states may have privatization programs of larger scale
and sectors' coverage, the assistance will focus on a restricted
number of "transactions" in activities that either do not face
regulatory issues (i.e. competitive enterprises) or where there
already exists a national reform strategy (i.e. airports and ports).
5.      Bank support would be channeled towards:
-- Transactions' design and implementation. These include the use
of consultant services to prioritize and customize privatization
programs, develop sales strategies, design wide stock-ownership
privatization programs, organize auctions, prepare information
sheets, bidding documents and contracts, and assist sale closures.
-- Strengthening the sub-national governments' capacity to design
and implement transactions, monitor contracts, evaluate
performance, and create the supervisory and institutional
frameworks that would ensure the sustainability of the
initiatives (consultant services, equipment and training).
6.      The States' Privatization Programs Consulting Team would
include a national coordinator for state reforms, a
legal/institutional expert, and an expert on participatory
approaches to privatization. The team would work across states to
support the development and implementation of their customized
privatization strategies, and help set up, train, and coordinate
the work of the states' executing units. The team would be actively
involved in the preparation of the general guidelines, workplan,
timetable for implementation, and terms of reference for hiring of
investment banks and consultant firms. The team will travel to
other states to disseminate pilot experiences and set the basis for
future assistance.
7.      Target beneficiaries would be the States of Falc6n, Merida
and Sucre. Falc6n and Sucre have demonstrated high political
commitment to privatization and private sector development, and
high program's potential. The successful privatizations already
- 2-



completed in the State of Sucre (salt mines and ports) and in the
State of Falcon (hotels) attest to this. Merida has come on board
recently, the opening seminar having taken place May 22-23, 1997.
The States of Falcon and Sucre, whose preparation is more advanced,
would be expected to carry out at least two-three privatization
initiatives in the three-year implementation cycle. One-two
initiatives will be expected in the case of the State of Merida. It
is hoped that successes in these experiences will set the basis for
a follow-up project that would include a larger number of states.
8.      Reform and Decentralization at the National Government. For
state reforms to be viable and sustainable, it is critical to put
in place at the national level adequate technical and economic
regulatory frameworks in priority subsectors (airports and ports),
develop sufficient supervisory capacity, and ensure consistency of
individual initiatives with overall national objectives. Within the
context of the Government's Public Sector Reform Program, this
component would support reforms at the national government level
that will actively complement state governments' initiatives in the
area of increased private sector participation, as well as help the
national government carry out two major concessions in airport
infrastructure.
9.      Bank assistance will be directed to: i) institutional
strengthening of supervisory, regulatory and evaluation functions
and project management; ii) developing normative and regulatory
frameworks to strengthen competition with emphasis on transport
subsectors (airports and ports) reflecting the privatization
priorities of both states and national governments; iii)
concessioning of construction, operation and maintenance of
infrastructure (airport and air navigation services); and iv)
institutional restructuring studies and personnel audits to
streamlining of operative functions and determine retrenchment
needs and costs. The Bank will also provide limited policy
assistance to the wider Public Sector Modernization Program of the
Government for carrying out institutional studies of the public
sector. This is expected to provide the basis for continued policy
dialogue, and a vehicle for preparing a potential follow-up project.
10.     Subcomponent A. Ministry of Transport & Communications (MTC).
MTC is key to supporting priority initiatives in the states as well
as urgent reforms at the national level in the airport sector. Not
only has MTC decentralized roads, ports and airports operations to
the states (18 out of 22 states have absorbed all or some of these
functions) but the states are also keen in transferring the
operation of this infrastructure to the private sector. The project
will assist MTC in implementing its rationalization strategy,
strengthening its regulatory capacity, putting in place consistent
regulatory and competition frameworks in specific subsectors
(airports and ports), and supporting its initiatives to concession
airports (case of Sim6n BolUvar International Airport) and air
navigation services. These reforms complement perfectly the
initiatives for concessioning regional airports and are urgently
needed to comply with international (FAA) security norms and
regulations. The Ministry has began implementation with funds from
- 3-



the TAL for PIID.
11.     Subcomponent B. Institutional restructuring studies to
support the wider Public Sector Modernization Program of the
government. These studies will provide policy guidance for
continuing efforts to rationalize the public sector and continuing
the process of decentralization. They may also provide the basis
for the design of a follow-up operation.
12.     Project Financing. Total project cost is estimated at US$24.4
million equivalent, of which US$8.0 million new financing would
come from the Bank, US$8.0 million from the IDB, US$3.8 million
from the Government, and $4.6 million (during preparation) from the
TAL for Pre-Investment and Institutional Development. The cost
estimates draw from the experience of the Technical Assistance for
Preinvestment and Institutional Development Project (Ln. 3225-VE)
which is funding national and international consultants, equipment,
and training, and from privatization experiences in the region.
13      Participatory Approach. The project takes a strong
participatory approach to project preparation and implementation,
to increase stakeholder ownership of projects, their relevance to
local realities, and prospects for sustainability. The project is
being prepared in joint collaboration with State governments, and
the private sector. In depth private sector involvement is required
to assess level of interest and economic viability of privatization
projects.
14.     Project Implementation.
-- Implementation period: Three years (1998-2000)
-- Executing agencies: Selected State Governments: design and
implementation of customized privatization strategies.
-- The Ministry of Transport and Communications: responsible
for implementation of agreed action plan for institutional
strengthening, regulatory framework in key sectors, and
concessions.
-- Project Coordination: Cordiplan through its Public Sector
Reform Executing Unit will provide overall coordination
for the reforms with the support of a States'
Privatization Programs Consulting Team and a Public Sector
Modernization Team
-- Project Oversight: Governors of selected states, Minister
of Planning/Cordiplan, and Presidential Commission to
Coordinate and Monitor the Restructuring of the Public
Administration
-- Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
The National Government will enter subsidiary agreements
with each state government participating in the reform
according to the constitutional restrictions on direct
- 4 -



lending to the states. These agreements will grant the
states authority for the use of pre-specified funds, and
will commit the states to servicing the debt, implementing
the reforms and to possible complementary actions.
Subaccounting mechanisms may be established to keep track
of each state disbursements.
-- Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Action plans will
be developed for each part of the project and agreed
during appraisal. These will include clear performance
indicators which will be reviewed on a semi-annual basis.
The action plans may be later amended by mutual agreement
to better meet project objectives. Special emphasis will
be given to first year activities.
15.     Project Sustainability. The project takes a focused approach
and narrow definition of objectives that will facilitate both
implementation and performance evaluation. Work with the States
will entail: a) clearly defined privatization projects that have an
inherent irreversibility quality to them, and b) strengthening
monitoring capacity to improve supervision of contracts. Early
involvement of relevant actors is meant to respond to local
necessities at the design stage, and develop a lasting partnership
that will carry through the implementation stage and beyond.. In
the case of the National Government, the development of regulatory
and institutional frameworks will facilitate private sector
participation and strengthen competition.
16.     Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement. The preparation of
the proposed project is benefiting from LAC experience in public
sector modernization and the large number of world-wide
privatization initiatives the Bank has supported. The following are
some of the lessons learned from these experiences.
General:
-- Political and economic opposition can be reduced if
large sectors of the public understand the program and
the need for reform. (PCR, Rep. No. 15239)
-- To promote a structural reform program, some benefits
for the public should exist from the beginning. Program
design should take this into account and implement
measures which produce early results. (PCR, Report No. 15239)
On private sector development:
-- Government commitment is the most important factor
affecting performance (Annual review of evaluation
Results 1993, OED, Report No. 13794)
-- In the design and implementation of public enterprise
reforms, the issue of sector reform should be addressed
(PCR, Report No. 15239)
-5-



-- Where privatization is not feasible, alternatives such
as leases or management contracts need to be actively
explored. (Lessons & Practices No. 2, OED)
On institutional arrangements:
-- Adopt a participatory approach to project preparation
to increase resources, ownership and sustainability
(World Bank Participation Sourcebook, ESD)
-- Draw on specific but adaptable action plans and annual
work programs for each component that focus on outputs,
define evaluation criteria and performance indicators
to judge project progress (MOP, Report No. P-6740-HO)
-- Give implementation support for establishing sound
criteria and a solid institutional basis for the
administration of the project, especially with regard
to procurement (MOP, Report No. P-6740-HO)
-- Emphasize counterpart responsibilities of the
beneficiary agencies and the staffing of key positions
(MOP, Rep. No. P-6740-HO)
On decentralization:
-- Agreements between the central government and states
are important to confirm commitment of all parties
involved (SAR, Report No. 13474-VE)
17.     Environmental Aspects. The project will not have
environmental components or impact, and therefore has been
classified as Category C -- no environmental analysis necessary.
18.     Program Objective Categories. The primary PCs are Private
Sector Development (PSD) and Public Sector Management (PB).
19.     Project Benefits:
-- Transferring productive enterprises and transport
infrastructure to the private sector, at both state and
national levels, will:
-- Increase efficiency and permit international standards
and regulations to be met.
-- Transfer investment responsibility to the private
sector (i.e. BOT agreements) which will lead to lower
public transfers to public enterprises and stimulate
private investment.
-- Increase state and national governments' sources of
revenue (recurrent concession fees on private
exploitation of public resources (mines) and
infrastructure (airports and ports) or one-time
- 6 -



privatization/sale proceeds of e.g. hotels).
-- Improve fiscal outlook of the state budgets and relieve
their financial pressures onto the national government.
-- Allow governments to focus on priority public sector
activities.
-- Widen stock ownership through worker and civil
participation privatization schemes.
20.     New competition and regulatory frameworks in airports and
ports will:
-- Provide the adequate environment for private sector participation.
-- Comply with international norms and regulations.
21.     Risks. Risks are associated with:
-- Institutional instability. To minimize this risk the
project is weighted toward the States and will rely on
fixed-term elected officials rather than appointed
officials. In the National Government the project will
define clear action plans, and develop implementation
capacity at less unstable middle-management level.
-- Weak implementation capacity. Great attention is placed
during preparation to: i) develop workable
institutional arrangements, ii) support the
establishment and strengthening of technical executing
units and the use of long-term consultants, ii) develop
focused training seminars on key issues (i.e.
privatization best practices, procurement), iv) provide
direct technical assistance, v) define clear and
focused objectives and outputs, and vi) diversify
executing agencies.
-- Availability of Funds. State government counterpart
fund do not suffer from the budgetary problem of the
National Government. The project is thus protected in
at least one of the two components.
-- Willingness of the private sector to participate.
Develop transparent international bidding procedures
and appropriate regulatory framework, increase access
to information. Eliminate price controls, maintain
appropriate exchange and interest rates policies.
1/ "Exclusive" responsibilities, such as roads, ports, airports and
mines, have been assumed by a large proportion of States. "Shared"
responsibilities (such as health, attention to the minor, attention
to the aged, sports, education, nutrition, housing, and culture)
are also being transferred although at a slower pace.
-7 -



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 20, 1997.
- 8 -



