Report No. PID3328
Project Name                     Venezuela-Public Sector Legislative ... @
And Administrative Modernization Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Public Sector Management Adjustment
Project ID                       VEPE41807
Borrower(s)                      Republic Of Venezuela
Implementing Agency
CORDIPLAN Ministerio de Planificacion
y Desarrollo
Vice-Ministerio de Desarrollo Regional
Address: Parque Central, Torre Oeste, Piso 26
Contact Person: Alicia Gutierrez
Tel: (582) 507-7647/7612/7618
Fax: (582) 578-1069
Email: Alicialara@hotmail.com
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 14, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 31, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Since taking office, the Chavez administration has introduced a
substantial reorientation to the public sector reform and regional
development priorities that prevailed during the project's original
design.   These new priorities are embodied in the New Constitutional
Reform agenda.Public sector strengthening and modernization have been
assigned a priority standing within the context of the new reform agenda.
The new Constitution clearly lays out the basic principals that should
underly state restructuring inititatives; namely, integrity,
professionalism, accountability, transparency, efficiency citizen
participation and social control. It also requires that access to public
employment as well as the retention, promotion and dismissal of public
employees be subjected to the merit principle and to a well regulated
civil service career. The new Constitution also calls for a set of
institutional and legislative initiatives, that would govern the
intergovernmental relations that would prevail in Venezuela. Moreover,
the Constitution does not define a clear and distinctive form of
territorial administration, but instead defers final definition of
intergovernmental relations to future legislation. To this end, the
Constitution mandates the approval of legislation on the Territorial
Fiscal Regime, the establishment of a Territorial Compensation Fund, and
the creation of the Federal Government Council (Consejo Federal de
Gobierno). In light of the present ambiguity the nature of future
intergovernmental relations in Venezuela will ultimately be defined by the
abovementioned legislative initiatives.To address the change in
priorities, the Ministry of Planning prepared a "Comprehensive



Institutional Development Plan" (CIDP) to implement the abovementioned
constitutional mandates., In line with the above, the Government has
requested that the Bank restructure the original operation so that it may
better support, core public sector reforms resulting from the 1999
Constitutional Process, particularly by providing support to the
implementation of the CPID. As explained in greater detail below, the
restructured project as proposed will support a significant portion of
the CPID, and in so doing will largely respond to the Government's
request.
2. Objectives
Original Objective. The original objectives of the $8.0 million Public
Sector Modernization and Decentralization Project were to (a) increase the
efficiency of public sector management of state productive enterprises and
infrastructure, and improve the fiscal and financial situation of
participating state governments; and (b) strengthen the national
regulatory framework in some transport sub-sectors, and rationalize
existing institutional structures in the national government.New
Development Objective. The general objective of the restructured project
is to improve the efficiency an the efficacy of the Venezuelan public
sector. The specific objectives are to: (i) modernize the Public Sector's
regulatory framework and, (ii) provide both national and sub-national
governments with modern and automated management systems, necessary to
help implement the legal reforms mentioned in (i) above.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In line with the objectives of the latest CAS, the proposed operation
would be aimed at improving the efficiency, effectiveness and
transparency of national and subnational governments.     The former
project, could at best offer only a limited impact toward strengthening
and modernizing the Venezuelan state. Indeed, the previous project was
designed in acknowledgement of weak government commitment to pursuing any
profound Public Sector reform programs. Ultimately, the new administration
would withdraw all support for the original operation, now not in line
with its 1999 Constitutional Reform program, expressing instead its
strong commitment to implement and develop the mandates of the
Constitution, which calls for a strong refurbishing of the Public Sector.
The proposed project aims at helping the Government to do precisely
that.   It would put in place the foundations necessary    for a modern,
efficient, effective and transparent state, and furthermore strengthen the
management capacity of strategic State functions. The alternative of
canceling the original project and preparing a new State Modernization and
decentralization operation from scratch was rejected given that the pace
of reforms prescribed in the Government's "Comprehensive Institutional
Development Plan" requires a rapid response. The added delay stemming
from the needed preparation time for the loan would add no value, while
obviating timely provision of assistance.
4. Description
The reformulated project would support Government initiatives geared at
improving the efficiency and efficacy of the Venezuelan public sector as
delineated in its "Comprehensive Institutional Development Plan" " (CIDP)
by supporting the following two components and associated subcomponents:A.
Technical Assistance for the Development and Implementation a Basic Legal
Framework for the Public Sector. This component will finance technical
- 2-



assistance necessary for: (A.1) the preparation, discussion, and approval
of those laws already envisioned in the National Assembly's Legislative
Agenda, that will make up the Public Sector's basic legal framework; and
(A.2). the preparation, discussion, and approval of the corresponding
administrative regulations. Al. Development of Key Legislation. The
National Assembly is scheduled to process a number of legislative
initiatives that will define the nature of Public Administration in
Venezuela, its relationship with the citizenry (including citizen
participation and social control), and the relationship between the
central and sub-national governments. This component will finance all
technical activities necessary for the preparation, discussion and
approval of at least four of the following laws: (i) Civil Service; (ii)
Territorial Compensation Fund; (iii) Municipal and State Finances; (iv)
Municipalities; (v) Planning; (vi) "Consejo Federal de Gobierno"; (vii)
Government Accountability; (viii) Citizen Participation and Social
Control; and (xi) Electronic Transactions. Financing of any other laws not
included in the previous list would require prior Bank approval . A2.
Development of Key Regulations. The process of reforming Venezuela's
Public Sector's legal framework requires that the Executive branch develop
and enact the corresponding administrative regulations. This component
will finance all technical assistance necessary to develop and enact a
number of regulations (to be determined) from the following list: (i)
Regulations to the Public Administration Organic Law; (ii) Public Sector
Salaries Regulation; (iii) any of the regulations necessary to implement
the laws mentioned in Al. above; and (iv) National Statistics Law
Regulation.B. Strengthening of the management and operational capacity of
both National and sub-national government levels to undertake key
strategic functions. This component will finance the technical assistance,
procurement of goods and IT systems, and training services necessary to:
(B.1) improve the Central Government's capacity to manage some (?)
strategic functions; and (B.2) strengthen the sub-national governments'
capacity to prepare budgetary plans on a participatory basis and to
develop investment projects.Bl. Strengthening of Central Government's
Management Capacity. This component will support the development and
implementation of the following systems: (i) Human Resources Management
including a staff performance evaluation system; (ii) Procurement; (iii)
Planning and Evaluation; and (iv) simplification of administrative
procedures.B2. Strengthening of the Sub-national Governments'
Participatory Planning and Budgeting Capacity. This component will support
the provision of technical assistance to six States and municipality
within one of the six States to: (i) enhance their ability to produce
financial statements, control public expenditures and generate adequate
financial and expenditure reports; (ii) strengthen the participatory basis
of their planning and budgeting functions; and (iii) prepare investment
projects.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 1.5
Total Project Cost 9.5
6. Implementation
Project implementation will span three years. The Ministry of Planning
will be the Executing Agency (EA). The Implementation Unit of the former
Pre-investment and Institutional Development Project (PIID) will serve as
- 3-



the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). This unit has continued operations
since the PIID's close in June 2000 and is presently implementing a
Technical Assistance program financed by the Andean Development
Confederation (CAF). The National Assembly's Technical and Economic Office
(NATEO) will be responsible for the execution of Component Al. and as
such will: (i) prepare all necessary terms of reference (TORs); (ii)
supervise consultants work; and (iii) conduct all essential activities
(i.e., seminars, workshops, focus groups, etc.) to reach the political
agreements necessary to ensure passage of the corresponding laws. NATEO
will submit the corresponding TORs PIU approval and ultimate submittal to
the Bank.The PIU in turn will ensure that bidding, procurement,
contracting, and disbursements, are undertaken in accordance with the
associated Bank guidelines and the proposed loan agreement. It will
furthermore be responsible for monitoring the overall progress of the
project, overseeing contract completion, tracking disbursements, preparing
semi-annual progress reports, and providing assistance to Bank supervision
missions.
7. Sustainability
The government's objective to promote a more effective, efficient and
transparent public administration based on a modern legislation and
systems, is ambitious and requires a well managed sequence of legal,
institutional and procedural reforms. This project focuses on the
development of the basic Public Sector legal framework and the improvement
of the management capacity of key administrative functions at the national
and sub-national levels. The feasibility of the development of key
legislation and corresponding regulations and the development and
implementation of key management systems will depend on: (i) a close
coordination among the different responsible units and their stakeholders;
(ii) the use of a broad-based and profound participatory approach in the
development of new legislation and regulations and in the development and
implementation of new management systems; and (iii) efficient and
productive use of technical assistance provided under the loan. Longer
term sustainability will depend in part on: (i) ongoing macro-economic and
political stability; and (ii) government commitment and ability to
implement the reform agenda stemming from the new legislation and update
the new management systems.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Among the key lessons learned from the experiences of other Bank projects
and applied in the design of this operation are: the need for borrower
commitment, strong project leadership, and sensitivity to
political-economic issues. Borrower Commitment. Evidence of the
borrower's commitment to the projects objectives lies in the fact that the
broadbased public sector restructuring called for by Chavez' 1999
Constitution is to be carried out in accordance with the Comprehensive
Institutional Development Plan which constitutes the basis for the present
operation (Components A and B). On the other hand, Government commitment
to enacting the basic legal framework for intergovernmental relations to
be prepared under Subcomponent Al, is promising by virtue of the fact that
the related laws are already envisioned in the National Assembly's
Legislative Agenda. Strong Project Leadership. The National Assembly's
Technical and Economic Office (NATEO) will be responsible for the
execution of Component Al. NATEO was established and continues to
function with support from the Inter-American Development Bank. It has
- 4 -



gained a reputation as a competent, independent, efficient and effective
institution. In its capacity as technical office of the National Assembly,
NATEO prepares economic impact evaluations of each law to be considered by
Congress and oversees their respective processing of approval. It has a
strong record as an effective institution that gets things accomplished.
The Ministry of Planning, which is responsible for the overall execution
of the whole operation on the other hand, has the support of a strong and
recently issued constitutional mandate. They have already initiated
reforms in some areas and have included transparency and social
participation and control themes as priorities in the modernization
effort.Sensitivity to Political Economic Issues. The change in the
project's development objectives is tailored to the current political
environment. Also, the limited scope of the project (i.e., development of
the basic Public Sector legal-framework and strengthening of the
management capacities in key, but few, strategic functions) reflects an
understanding that the Public Sector reform process is a long-term
endeavour, that should be approached in a sequential manner, by building
strong solid foundations in order to avoid future conceptual
contradictions.In line with the 1997 World development Report, this
project: (i) attempts to help the GOV in redefining the role of the state,
by supporting the development of a state bureaucracy based on principles
of efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, integrity, professionalism,
accountability, citizen participation and social control, and (ii)
supports the development of strategic management functions such as
results-oriented policies and systems for organizations and personnel,
explicit social participation and control in the management of public
affairs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project would not directly trigger the Bank's
safeguard policies. In the event that during its implementation, the
project were to touch on privatization of public entities such as
utilities, the regulatory framework would require audits and disclosure of
the environmental liabilities of any companies privatized and mechanisms
for assuring that negative environmental impacts are properly mitigated.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Pablo Alonso
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 5356+236
Fax: WBGN Fax: 5356+234
12.  For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
- 5 -



Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
- 6 -



