Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18976
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SEVENTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2133-IN; LOAN 3199-IN)
February 05, 1999
Health, Nutrition & Population Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1999)
Currency Unit                      Rupee
Rupee 42.52                        US$1.00
Rupee 1.0           -US$0.02352
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Meter (m)         =              3.28 Feet (ft)
I Kilometer                       0.62
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANC           Ante-Natal Care
ANM           Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
MPW           Multi Purpose Worker
ANMTC         Auxiliary Nurse Midwife Training Center
ARI           Acute Respiratory Infection
CSSM          Child Survival and Safe Motherhood
CHC           Community Health Center
CPR           Couple Protection Rate
DM            District Magistrate
DTTC          District Training Team Center
ELS           End-Line Survey
FWP           Family Welfare Program
0OI           Government of India
HRD           Human Resources Development
ICPD          Intemational Conference on Population and Development
IEC           Information, Education and Communications
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
ISm           Indian Systems of Medicine
IPP           India Population Project
J&K           Jammu and Kashmir
MCH           Maternal & Child Health
MIS           Management Information System
MIES          Management Information & Evaluation Systems
MOHFW         Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MTR           Mid-Termn Review
MPW           Multi-Purpose Worker
NFHS          National Family Health Survey
NIHFW         National Institute of Health and Family Welfare
NGO           Non-Govemmental Organization
PHC           Primary Health Care
PMIS          Personnel Management Information Systems
PNC           Post-Natal Care
PWD           Public Works Department
RCH           Reproductiye and Child Health
REW           Rural Engineer Worker
RIHFW         Regional Institute of Health & Family Welfare
RTC           Regional Training Center
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SC            Sub-Center
SIHFW         State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
SFD           State Finance Department.
TBA           Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR           Total Fertility Rate
TOT           Training of Trainers
WHO           World Health Organization
Vice President         Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director      Edwin Lim
Sector Manager        Richard Skolnik
Task Leader           Badrud Duza



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA: SEVENTH POPULATION PROJECT (CR 2133-IN; LOAN 3199-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .....................................i
Evaluation Summary ....................................                              iii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Objectives, Scope and Strategy .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                     .2
C.    Project Costs and Implementation Timetable .10
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .10
E.  Project Sustainability .13
F. Bank Performance .14
G. Borrower Performance .15
H. Assessment of Outcome .16
I. Key Lessons Learnt .16
Table A. Selected Project Achievements ........................... ..3
Table B. Selected Family Welfare Indicators .............................4
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1.   Summary of Assessments .18
Table 2.    Related Bank Loans/Credits .20
Table 3.  Project Timetable .23
Table 4.      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .23
Table 5A.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Training Facilities) . 24
Table 5B.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Service Deliveries) . 24
Table 5C.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Training Coverage) . 25
Table 5D.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (IEC Activities) .25
Table 6A.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (Training Quality & Impact) . 26
Table 6B.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (Upgraded Facilities) .27
Table 6C      Key Indicators for Project Operation (Beneficiaries Assessment) . 27
Table 6D.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (FMC Indicators) .28
Table 7.      Studies Included in the Project .29
Table 8A.     Project Costs by Disbursement Performance by Expenditure Category.32
Table 8B.  Project Financing .32
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits .32
Table 10.   Status of Legal Covenants .33
Table 11.     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .34
Table 12A.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks) .35
Table 12B.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Dollars) .35
Table 13.   Bank Resources: Missions .36
APPENDICES:
Appendix A.          The ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B.          Borrower's Evaluation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SEVENTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2133-IN; LOAN 3199-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Seventh Population Project
in India for which Credit No. 2133-IN in the amount of SDR67.10 million (US$86.7 million
equivalent) and Loan No. 31990 in the amount of US$10.0 million were approved on May 17,
1990 and made effective on March 8, 1991.
As a result of exchange rate adjustments in May 1993, the Loan and part of the Credit were
cancelled, reducing the resources to US$63.96 million equivalent of Credit. In view of exchange
rate adjustments since then, the revised amount of Credit available by the end of the Project was
US$69.5 million equivalent. This gain is in favor of the US dollar and covered most of the
Rupee costs of the Project which had remained unchanged since Project effectiveness.
The Credit closed on the original Closing Date of June 30, 1998. The Credit amount was
fully disbursed, the last disbursement taking place on November 20, 1998. In addition, an
amount of US$ 2.65 million covered essential activities out of the RCH Project (Cr. NOI 8-IN),
as agreed between IDA and GOI.
The ICR was prepared by Badrud Duza (Task Leader), assisted by Tirtha Rana, Rashmi
Sharma and Suneeta Singh. Elfreda Vincent provided office technology assistance and Doris
Knoles looked after quality control. Richard Cambridge and Frances Plunkett provided valuable
comments and historical perspective on Project formulation. Peer reviewers were Messrs./Mme.
Maria MacDonald, Thomas Merrick and Christopher Walker. The ICR was reviewed by
Richard Skolnik, Sector Manager, and Indra Pathmanathan, Team Leader; SASHP.
Preparation of the ICR is based on materials in the Project files, baseline surveys, training
needs assessments, communication needs assessments, end-line surveys (ELS), evaluation
studies, field visits and interviews with beneficiaries, health workers, NGOs, Project staff and
other senior Government officials as well as Bank staff. NIHFW conducted the end-line surveys
for the training and civil works components in each Project State as well as evaluation studies on
the IEC, NGO and Social Marketing components. The ELS for the training component included:
field visits to 57 training institutions in 37 districts; interviews and observations of randomly
selected samples of 122 trainees, 100 health personnel, 160 health workers (TBAs, AWWs) and
1350 beneficiaries. The ELS for the civil works component included field visits to 38 districts
for inspection of 106 training institutions and 71 sub-centers as well as interviews with health
personnel and beneficiaries.



ii
The Borrower contributed significantly to the preparation of the ICR. Each Project State
prepared its own evaluation of the Project's preparation and execution. These documents,
together with other evaluation reports on the Project, were discussed in two workshops organized
by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) in New Delhi (June 1998), and
Srinagar (September 1998). Finally, the MOHFW prepared its overall assessment which is
included in this report. The draft ICR was shared with the Borrower and their comrnments were
taken into account in the final version.
The cooperation and assistance of the Government of India (GOI), the National Institute
of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) and the State Governments of Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana,
Jammu & Kashmir, and Punjab throughout the implementation process and preparation of this
ICR is gratefully acknowledged.



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SEVENTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2133-IN; LOAN 3199-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Seventh Population Project (IPP VII) commenced in March 1991 against the
backdrop of the evolving maturity of the Indian Family Welfare Program (FWP) and growing
understanding between the Bank and the Government of India (GOI) on the need to strengthen
the national program, with expanded client access and quality of care as prime considerations.
Since the early 1 970s, IDA supported India's family planning (later, family welfare) program
through a series of nine India Population Projects (IPPs), besides the Child Survival and Safe
Motherhood (CSSM) Project and lately, the Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Project. The
initial five projects focused on a limited number of backward districts or urban slums in the
selected States. IPP VI started a new phase of Statewide operations, with multi-State capacity
building and implementation support in FW and MCH. IPP VII was also designed along these
directions. A total of eleven States and four large cities were covered between IPP VI to IX.
The process culminated in the RCH Project in 1997 - moving from the traditional project
approach to the new program approach; with reorientation of the nationwide FW Program
beyond the earlier preoccupation with fertility reduction and numerical contraceptive targets; and
underscoring policy reforms in reproductive health. Concurrently, a large number of nutrition,
child survival, and health systems development projects were also developed with IDA support.
2.   IPP VII covered five States - the three relatively more developed States of Gujarat,
Haryana and Punjab; and the two relatively less developed States of Bihar, and Jammu and
Kashmir (J&K). Some centrally administered components were implemented nationally. As
originally scheduled, the Project was closed at the end of June 1998.
Project Objectives
3.    The Project hadfour major objectives: (a) expand the supply of family welfare services;
(b) increase the demand for these services; (c) enhance the quality of the services; and (d)
improve the efficiency of program management.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Overall Achievements. The Project substantially achieved its development objectives,
especially those relating to institutional development, training systems and infrastructure
expansion, and laid the foundation of enhanced quality of care in FW and MCH in the
participating States. It also contributed to the process of development of the new RCH approach



iv
in the Indian FW program. In terms of specific development objectives, the first and the third
ones mentioned above - expansion of supply and quality of FW services - were covered well,
while achievements with respect to the other two - increased demand for services and improved
efficiency - were relatively modest. The implementation experience was uneven for the Project
States. Gujarat and Haryana were able to complete most of the planned activities in more than a
year prior to the closing date, and also undertook certain additional activities beyond the original
plans; Punjab completed most of its activities; Bihar and J&K were relatively weaker
performers.
5.    The financial objectives of the Project were fully achieved. The original Bank support of
US$96 million (US$10 million IBRD Loan and US$86 million IDA Credit) was reduced to only
IDA Credit of US$63.96 million - as a result of exchange rate adjustments in May 1993 - with a
cancellation of the entire IBRD component and US$22.74 million of the IDA Credit. However,
the original Rupee allocation was retained unchanged. Due to exchange rate adjustments, the
amount of the Credit available by the end of the Project was US$69.5 million, which was
disbursed 100%. Some shortfalls were met out of the RCH Project (Cr. N-018-IN).
6.    Human Resource Development (HRD). The Project was successful in developing a
large network of training infrastructure in all Project States. The State Institutes of Health and
Family Welfare (SIHFWs) were set up as the apex bodies at the State level, except for J &K
which established two Regional Institutes of Health and Family Welfare (RIHFWs) - one each
for Jamnmu and Kashmir Division. Altogether, 315 training institutions were founded or
upgraded in the five States, exceeding the planned target by nearly 20%. These were adequately
furnished and equipped, and provided with vehicles to facilitate field training - significantly
enhancing the quality of service providers, supervisors and managers, and thus, contributing to
better quality of services in the rural clinical and outreach settings. The National Institute of
Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) played a catalytic role in the process. The challenge
remains in sustaining the future needs by providing qualified core trainers and financial
resources, especially at the level of SIHFWs/RIHFWs.
7.    Despite many constraints and make-shift arrangements with training staff and venue as a
result of lack of regular faculty and lack of completion of a number of the training infrastructures
even late in the Project period, the training mandate was carried out well. About a quarter
million persons - nearly double the planned target - were trained. Of them, close to 115,000
were program functionaries, 12% above the goal - with about 1,100 key trainers; 20,000 medical
officers; 24,000 field supervisors; 45,000 Female Multi-Purpose Workers (MPWs); and 23,000
male MPWs. The achievement was more pronounced with respect to the training of non-health
functionaries - more than 119,000 trained, nearly four times the goal.
8.    The performance of most of the States was noteworthy. Overall, Gujarat trained more
than 105,000 persons, four times the target; Punjab, about 82,000, twice the goal; and Haryana,
more than 24,000, 96% of the goal. Even the weaker performing States of Bihar and J&K
achieved 80% of the overall target. Gujarat did exceptionally well by training more than 78,000
non-health functionaries, followed by Punjab and Haryana, which also did very well in this
regard; Punjab was conspicuous in training more than 12,000 members of rural women's groups.
Many senior trainers and program managers participated in international training programs and



v
visits to various Project States for hands-on experience with the "best practices" in the area. All
in all, Gujarat developed an excellent training system, with a focus on innovative field-based and
practical training.
9.    Upgrading of Service Facilities. There was substantial development of the
infrastructure for service delivery. Project End Line Surveys confirm that the Project supported
the construction and renovation of more than 3,000 such rural institutions - nearly 90% of the
planned target - that were functional with trained personnel, adequate equipment, furniture and
other supplies. In the process, about 2,600 Health Sub-Centers (SCs) were constructed - all of
them with accommodation for the Multi-Purpose Health Workers (MPWs); nearly 300 Primary
Health Centers (PHCs) were upgraded, with Operation Theaters (OTs); and some Indian System
of Medicine (ISM) dispensaries, logistics stores, and other facilities in selected States. The
overall achievement with respect to upgraded service facilities was more than 100% in Gujarat
and Haryana; nearly 100% in Punjab; and about 75% in the other two States.
Project Outcome
10.   Overall, the Project outcome is satisfactory - and for some States, highly satisfactory - in
terms of setting up essential building blocks for a well functioning FW program (see: paragraphs
7 to 29 in the main text). Between the beginning and the end of the Project, a large vacuum was
filled in all Project States with respect to creating and refurbishing major infrastructures for FW
services and human resource development for service providers, supervisors, managers and a
vast network of non-health functionaries and opinion leaders. These would now need to be
consolidated in order to ensure continued upgrading of the quantity and quality of services that
the Project initiated.
11.   While the quantifiable outcome indicators on infrastructure and personnel development
provide evidence of considerable achievement in capacity building for training and quality
service delivery, it is too early to assess the precise impact of the Project with respect to specific
behavioral changes among the clients and the providers, and their implications for the family
welfare and health indicators. The 1999 National Family Health Survey (NFHS) and the district-
level surveys conducted for the Reproductive and Child Program are expected to provide this
data by mid-1999. Nonetheless, beneficiary assessments confirm considerable expansion of
client access to and satisfaction with the services available at the rural clinical and outreach
settings. Similarly, studies carried out in connection with the Mid-Term Review (MTR) and the
End-line Surveys (ELS) provide positive evidence of the impact of the training institutions and
the training provided in effectively upgrading the skills of the program functionaries, thus
contributing to the process of enhanced quality of care. Many of the Project's benefits are
expected to come to full fruition only following the Borrower's continued attention to and
investments in sustaining the development objectives pursued by the Project. The Borrower
should also benefit from additional support from the ongoing and future IDA projects in the area
of reproductive and child health (RCH), especially pertaining to the important agenda of training
and quality enhancement in the field.



vi
Lessons Learnt
12.   The key lesson learnt was the need for flexibility in Project design to match the varying
requirements and capacities of the individual Project States. Largely in line with the anticipation
at the design stage, Project performance varied substantially between the five States, reflecting
differing capacity, macroeconomic and political situations, and policy environment. Since the
IPP VII design was too uniform, it strained implementation ability in the weaker States and now
leaves concerns for some aspects of sustainability of the investments that may be beyond their
capacity.
13.  It is also critical to limit the Project scope and focus on key interventions, particularly in
low capacity settings. In the weaker States, the Project focused on completing hardware (civil
works and equipment) components rather than 'software' (demand generation, quality of
training, and community participation). Lack of proper blending of the Project needs, thus, led
to sub-optimal achievement of the objectives.
14.  It is imperative to give top priority to monitoring and evaluation. Even more crucial is
the creation of a culture, at all levels of management, for using service data as a proactive
management tool for timely feedback and corrective actions. The weaker performing States
would have benefited from more intensive monitoring but no special measures had been built
into the Project to ensure that. A rigorous MTR needs to be planned and implemented on time.
The project design did not include provision for a MTR. Although a MTR was completed, the
Project lost a valuable opportunity for review and course correction because the MTR was
completed too late in the Project cycle and did not provide the basis for in-depth assessment
against a core set of monitoring indicators set during the design stage.
15.   The Project experience reiterates the problem of under-utilization of certain physical
facilities constructed under the Project, in particular Female MPW residential accommodation.
At the same time, a good deal of beneficiary satisfaction also has been noted with respect to the
services rendered by the Female MPWs, even though they had not been living on the Sub-Center
premises. It is, thus, important to deternine the factors that contribute to Female MPW
effectiveness, and make investments to reinforce them, rather than to continue wasteful
expenditures on staff quarters per se. Appropriate studies and policy decisions need to be made
on this issue.
16.   There are chronic and persistent operational problems that adversely affect
implementation of all Family Welfare Projects in weaker states. These include poor flow of
funds to the implementing agency in states that experience fiscal problems, low procurement
capacity, persistent staff vacancies and high turnover, and lengthy decision-making processes.
These often relate to macro-economic difficulties and problems of governance at the State level,
and are beyond the scope of individual Project teams to address effectively. Unless resolved at a
more macro level, they continue to constrain implementation and create problems of long range
sustainability.
17.   An important lesson is the need for GOI to create incentives to the States through
performance-based financing during Project implementation. In IPP VII, GOI released funds



vii
regularly to the State Finance Departments (SFDs), but the onward flow of funds from the SFDs
to the Project Units was impeded as result of financial difficulties at the State level. Such a
situation would need to be guarded against through performance-based financing referred to
above or through reallocation of funds to Project States. The latter mechanism was found
effective in energizing performance as a result of reallocation of substantial funds by MOHFW
from Bihar to three better performing States during the final year of the Project staff.
18.   This project demonstrates effective use of lower cost supervision mechanisms based on a
strengthened Bank field office presence. Local staff and consultants conducted Workshops and
provided hands-on training for project officials. Multi-State workshops proved to be a valuable
approach to sharing of lessons and experience. Joint IDA review missions in conjunction with
MOHFW and NIHFW provided a useful opportunity for policy dialogue, exchange of
infornation on technical and program matters, and swift resolution of implementation
bottlenecks.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SEVENTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2133-IN)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    The Seventh Population Project (IPP VII) commenced in March 1991 against the
backdrop of the evolving maturity of the Indian Family Welfare Program (FWP) and the growing
understanding between the Bank and the Government of India (GOI) on the need to strengthen
the national program, with expanded client access and enhanced quality of care. In the process,
increasing attention was devoted to: a broader mix of family planning services, as a departure
from the earlier thrust on sterilization as the predominant method; to maternal and child health
(MCH) interventions; and lately to a major paradigm shift in terms of support to reproductive
and child health (RCH). As originally scheduled, the Project was closed at the end of June 1998.
2.    Since 1972 and prior to IPP VII, IDA supported a series of India Population Projects
(IPPs). The initial five projects focused on a limited number of backward districts or urban
slums in the selected States. Beginning with IPP VI, the magnitude of IDA financing was
substantially scaled up since the 1990s and a new phase of GOI-Bank collaboration started with
major Statewide operations, with multi-State capacity building and implementation. IPP VII was
also designed along these directions. A total of eleven States and slum populations in four large
cities were covered between IPP VI to IX. The process culminated in the RCH Project in 1997 -
moving from the traditional project approach to the new program approach; with reorientation of
the nationwide FW Program toward enhanced performance by removing numerical contraceptive
targets and underscoring improved resource utilization and increased program impact through
effective client-oriented and better quality services. In parallel, a large number of nutrition, child
survival, and health systems development projects were also developed with IDA support, with
an increasingly conducive milieu for policy dialogue with the Government and better
implementation efforts. The development of IPP VII needs to be appreciated in the above
historical and programmatic context.
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND STRATEGY
3.    The Project hadfour major objectives: (a) expand the supply of family welfare services;
(b) increase the demand for these services; (c) enhance the quality of the services; and (d)
improve the efficiency of program management and operation. It was designed for five States
with more than 150 million population. Of these, Bihar is India's second most populous State
and represents about 10% of the country's population. Part of the "Hindi belt" of northern India,
it is more than 80% rural, socially conservative and economically backward, with very poor
health and demographic indicators. Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) is one of the smaller States of
India; is not economically developed; and had high birth, death and infant mortality rates as well



2
as poor health indicators and civil conflict. The other three Project States, Gujarat, Haryana and
Punjab, are relatively more developed, with better demographic and social indicators.
4.    Setting up improved institutional and management capacity was the principal strategy
toward achieving enhanced service quality and working environment. The key focus was on
training and skill development as the pivot of operational efficiency at all levels. Equity was
built in by recognition of the needs of the weaker performing States of Bihar and J&K. The
Project was conceived within the broad framework of the National Family Welfare Program,
with an emphasis on "quality" of services and as a step toward a "program" approach - as
distinct from the earlier "project" approach. In conjunction with several other IPPs of its cohort,
IPP VII proved to be one of the important precursors of the vital transition that culminated in the
RCH Project in the late 1990s.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement
5.    The precise impact of the Project needs to be viewed in a much longer tirne frame than
the brief implementation period itself. Some of the activities had barely been completed or were
nearing completion toward the end of that period. While a number of indicators were specified
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), they were comprised mostly of measures of input and
processes, rather than definitive measures of outcome and impact used in more recent Bank
Projects. The assessments made in the present report are essentially based on the input and
process indicators, supplemented by some outcome indicators based on the limited data available
from the Baseline, Mid-Term Review (MTR) and End-line surveys, and other sources.
6.    The Project substantially achieved its development objectives, especially those relating to
training systems and infrastructure expansion, and laid the foundation of enhanced quality of
care in FW and MCH. Disbursement was 100% of the IDA proceeds earmarked for the Project.
In addition, the shortfall of US$2.65 million was met out of the RCH Project (Cr. N-01 8-IN).
The overall level of achievements and pace of implementation of the Project, reflected in Table
A, has been rated as satisfactory.
7.    The experience has been uneven for the individual States. Gujarat and Haryana were
able to complete most of the planned activities more than a year prior to the closing date, and
undertook additional activities beyond the original plans. Punjab started off well and completed
all its activities ahead of time, except for an unanticipated disruption in the fund flow during the
final year, resulting in non-completion of the State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
(SIHFW). Despite various administrative and macro-economic constraints, Bihar was able to
accelerate implementation during the second half of the Project period and registered
considerable progress toward the attainment of most of the objectives. Inplementation was very
slow in J&K in the initial years, especially in the Kashmir Division - severely disrupted by civil
disturbances - where significant progress was achieved during the final two years. Completion
of a number of activities was impeded in these two latter States due to major fund flow problems
throughout the Project period. The Regional Institute of Health and Family Welfare (RIHFW) in



3
Kashmir remained in its final but incomplete stage; and Bihar was unable to seek reimbursement
even for some of the completed activities. MOHFW and the concemed States are seeking RCH
Project support for completion of these facilities.
Table A: Selected Project Achievements
1998 Project End-Line Surveys
BIHAR        GUJARAT       HARYANA        JAMMU&          PUNJAB      Total Number;
KASHMIR
Achievement  Achievement  Achievement  Achievement  Achievement  Achievement
(% of planned     (% of      (% of planned  (% of planned  (% of planned  (% of planned
target)       planned       target)        target)        target)        target)
target)
No. of Training     87            121            29             17             61            315
Facilities      (96%)         (205%)        (138%)         (65%)          (98%)          (119%)
established and
functioning
No. of Sub-       750           684            443            382           400            2659
Centers        (75%)         (114%)         (98%)          (76%)         (100%)         (90%)
constructed and
fully functional
Number of       21,858        105,422        24,003         13,336         81,966        246,585
Health and     (81.5%)        (368%)         (96.5%)       (78.5%)        (200.5%)       (178%)
Non- Health
Workers
trained
No. of Female     10,673         7,661         6,702          3,717         15,770         44,530
Multi Purpose     (84%)         (90%)          (86%)         (149%)         (239%)         (108%)
Workers
(MPW)
attended
Training    X
% Female
MPWs with
critical
knowledge in:
-maternal
health         74%            91%           55%            68%            82%
-child health     82%            55%           53%            68%            85%
-family         86%            89%           81%            53%            91%
planning



4
Table B: Selected Family Welfare Indicators
BIHAR           GUJARAT         HARYANA          PUNJAB         NA TIONAL
Baseline  Most   Baseline   Most   Baseline  Most  Baseline  Most  Baseline  Most
recent            recent          recent          recent          recent
data              data            data            data             data
1. TFR          4.4     4.5      3.1      3.2     4.0     3.7     3.1      2.9     3.6     3.5
2. IMR          69       71       69      62       68      68      53      51      80      71
3. %Infants     11       40      50       65       54      70      62      84      35      63
fully
inununized
4. %Women       37      N/A       76      92       73     100      88      87      62      63
Receiving ante-
natal care
5. %Assisted    27       33      57       73      84.4    92      94.5    98.2    46       53.4
at delivery by a
doctor/nurse/tra
ined midwife                                                             .
Source: See Table 6D, p. 29.
Expansion of Supply Objectives
8.     The stated project objective of "expand the supply of family welfare services" may have
raised undue expectation of increasing coverage, because in most cases the staff were already in
place and providing outreach services, albeit from rented or make-shift premises. The project
constructed sub-centers which enhanced the working environment of the outreach workers by
providing a facility from which they could operate, maintain stores and records, and conduct
clinic sessions. Similarly the add-on OTs at PHCs enabled sterilization operations to be done in
a proper facility and not in make-shift "camps". Therefore expectation of impact in terms of
greatly expanded numbers of clients would be unreasonable.
9.     This component consumed nearly a half of the Project resources. The objectives were
substantially accomplished, through support to the construction, upgrading and functioning of a
large network of rural health facilities. Altogether, more than 3,000 outreach facilities received
new or upgraded infrastructures, representing nearly 90% of the planned target. The overall
achievement was more than 100% of the target in Gujarat and Haryana; 100% in Punjab; and
about 75% in Bihar and J&K. The facilities included about 2,600 Sub-Centers (SCs) - all of
them with residential accommodation for the Multi-Purpose Health Workers (MPWs); a large
proportion with two beds for delivery; and nearly a hundred-(in Gujarat) with small wards.
Similarly, about 300 Primary Health Centers (PHCs) were upgraded, with Operation Theaters
(OTs). Further, 75 Indian System of Medicine (ISM) dispensaries were constructed (in J&K).
These new facilities, besides a large number of existing SCs and PHCs, were fully equipped and
furnished, and provided with essential supplies ranging from daily consumables to blood
pressure measuring instruments and power generators; about 1.6 million pre-sterilized delivery
kits were provided for use by the outreach workers; and 449 vehicles were purchased or made
road worthy, strengthening the referral and supervisory process (Table 5A).



5
10.   As a result, the unsatisfactory physical and operational facilities were significantly
improved to render clinic based and domiciliary services. Enhanced client satisfaction as well as
increased access was widely reflected in the beneficiary assessment during the End-line survey
(Table 6C). Despite such improvement in the hardware and client satisfaction, full utilization,
particularly of sub-center residential and bed facilities remains a problem. While most of the
PHCs in the Project States have doctors residing in or near the PHC campus, the percent of sub-
centers in which Female MPWs were resident was 10 percent or less in Bihar, Jammu and
Kashmir and Punjab, almost 50% in Gujarat and 60% in Haryana (Table 6B). Non-residence has
been attributed to cultural reasons that discourage females living alone in the sub-centers, as well
as security considerations due to location of sub-centers outside the villages. Such sub-center
sites had been donated by the community because land within the village was more valuable.
11.   The issue of non-residence of the Female MPW in the sub-center has been persistent for
the past decade. Residential accommodation for the Female MPW attached to the sub-center
clinic facility is a feature of all Bank financed civil works in the Population projects. The
rationale for the design is the hypothesis that provision of such accommodation would enable the
Female MPW and the services delivered by her to be more accessible to the target beneficiaries.
Experience from this project and the recently completed VI indicate that residential occupancy is
about 50%-70% in "stronger" states such as Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, and Madhya
Pradesh but much lower in "weaker" states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and J&K. It is unclear
whether beneficiary satisfaction is related to whether or not the Female MPW is resident in the
sub-center. Two issues merit consideration: (a) the extent to which residential occupancy by
Female MPWs is critical to the access and quality of care she provides; and, (b) if residence is
critical, what are the measures required to facilitate residence.
Demand Generation Objectives
12.   The Project approached this important objective in several ways - creating quality
infrastructures with well trained service providers and adequate equipment and supplies;
orienting non-health functionaries and opinion leaders at the community level to FW and MCH
services; and finally, promoting Social Marketing, Information, Education & Communication
(IEC), and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). These three latter components were
centrally administered by the MOHFW and throughout the country as part of GOI's ongoing
national programs. Additional activities were carried out by the five Project States. Although
the Project disbursed over Rs.78 crore (more than 100% of the original allocation) for these three
activities, the precise impact of the IDA investments is difficult to quantify, since the Project
resources were combined with the GOI funds and programs for nationwide coverage. There was
also inadequate docunentation on specific demand generation activities to be supported with
IDA funds within the framework of the national program.
13.   Nonetheless, around the start of the project, in the early nineties, MOHFW made a shift
in its communications strategy from a narrow emphasis on sterilization to a broader reproductive
health and multi-sectoral approach which emphasized spacing, delayed age of marriage,
enhanced women's status, counteracting male-child preference and involving women's groups.
In this context, Project funds were used to develop innovative materials together with
strengthening all media channels, emphasis on interpersonal communication, audience



6
segmentation and area specific strategies (Table SD). Similarly, new mechanisms such as
Society for Coordination of Voluntary Activities (SCOVA) were put in place in many States in
the country; and channeling funds through Mother NGOs was introduced with some success in
Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat but did not materialize in Bihar and J&K. Proactive states like
Gujarat and Punjab were able to provide substantial support to local NGOs. However, overall
utilization of the NGOs remained inadequate in the absence of a true partnership between the
Government and the NGOs. As for social marketing of contraceptives, condoms and oral
contraceptives were promoted through private marketing companies and NGOs, provided free or
at a subsidized rate. While there has been some increase in nationwide sales of both condoms
and oral contraceptives, the program suffered from poor distribution in rural areas; and irregular
supply and quality contributed to reduced confidence in the products. The NIHFW study
conducted in 1997 reported that the sale of condoms increased from 146 million in 1994-95 to
163 million in 1995-96 and sale of oral pills cycles from 14 million to 14.6 million in the same
time frame. The study attributes this increase largely to social marketing efforts.
Quality Enhancement Objectives
14.   This objective was central to the Project, utilizing more than a quarter of the resources.
The main thrust for quality was on upgrading the knowledge and skills of the staff, with focus
on training as a core activity. The goal was to create 264 training facilities and train more than
138,000 service providers and related persons in the five States. The Project was highly
successful in developing an extensive network of training infrastructure - a total of 315
institutions were built; and nearly a quarter million persons were trained (Tables SA and C). In
addition to training, several strategies were pursued to improve quality - strengthening the
supply dimension; upgrading physicalfacilities, equipment and vehicles; increasing the
demandfor services; and revamping the managerialprocesses. Significant progress was noted
above in these areas.
15.   The extensive training infrastructure that was established included state, regional and
district-level institutions. The State Institutes of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFWFs) were set
up as the apex bodies at the State level, except for J & K with two Regional Institutes of Health
and Family Welfare (RIHFW) - one each for Jammu and Kashmir Divisions. The achievement
with respect to the total number of training facilities founded or upgraded in the five States
exceeded the planned target by nearly 20%. These were adequately furnished and equipped, and
provided with vehicles to facilitate field training. The achievement of Gujarat was about double
the original goal; Haryana also exceeded its target; and Punjab accomplished its objective except
for the failure to complete the SIHFW for unforeseen fund flow difficulties during the final
months of the Project. Including the Regional Training Center (Patna), which the State built
with its own resources - the facility was not paid for by IDA due to misprocurement associated
with change of site without compliance to Bank procedures - Bihar was able to complete as
many as 88 out of the planned 91 training facilities. Even J&K was able to complete about two-
thirds of its planned institutions, including substantial progress with respect to the RIHFW in
Kashmir (Table SA).
16.   The National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) played an important role
in the process, providing good technical and advisory support for: (a) planning and



7
establishment of the training system; (b) training the initial batches of trainers (TOTs); (c) staff
and curriculum development; and (d) monitoring and evaluation of the training system.
Personnel Management Information System (PMIS) and Human Resource Development (HRD)
cells were set up in three States - Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab - although their use remained
limited; Bihar and J&K were initiating the process. The 1998 Review of NIHFW conducted by
MOBFW, reports that the Institute carried out regular monitoring visits to the States and
organized workshops and meetings on technical and management issues. Training provided by
NIHFW has been rated highly by the trainees and project management staff of the Project States.
As confirmed by the Bank Missions and supported by the NIHFW monitoring reports as well as
the Mid-Term Review and End-line Surveys, the apex institutes at the State and Regional levels
carried out their leadership role in planning and implementing training objectives, with a fair
amount of success, even pending the completion of some of the physical infrastructure.
17.   The challenge remains in providing qualified core trainers, especially at the level of
SIHFWs/RIHFWs. During the Project period, most of the training needs were met through part-
time or visiting faculty members drawn from service delivery and management positions, rather
than full-time professional and specialized trainers. While all the States have provided
assurances of budget provisions in the Ninth Five Year Plan and the current financial year for
running their training systems, only Gujarat has so far been able to put on board the core staff of
professional trainers for its SIHFW. In most of the States, training is still not a recognized cadre
and an attractive vocation, with lack of status, career prospects and other incentives. Some of the
new training institutions also were handicapped due to the absence of vehicles or delay in their
procurement - as a result of a Government moratorium on vehicles except for replacement for
the old ones.
18.   Despite the foregoing constraints, the Project carried out its training mandate well. As
noted before, about a quarter million persons - nearly double the planned target - were trained.
Of them, close to 115,000 were program functionaries, 12% above the goal - with about 1,100
key trainers; 20,000 medical officers; 24,000 field supervisors; 45,000 Female Multi-Purpose
Workers (MPWs); and 23,000 male MPWs. The achievement was much more pronounced with
respect to the training of non-health functionaries - more than 119,000 trained, nearly four times
the goal (Table SC). Overall, Gujarat trained four times the target; Punjab, twice the goal; and
Haryana, 96% of the goal. Even the weaker performing States of Bihar and J&K achieved 80%
of the target. Gujarat did well by training large numbers of non-health functionaries, followed
by Punjab and Haryana; Punjab also stands out conspicuously by training more than 12,000
members of rural women's groups. Bihar now has a good training capacity, with a large cadre of
trainers - 474 out of the Project's total of 1,090. J&K remains handicapped in this regard; while
Bihar needs to give attention to include non-health functionaries in training. The States of J&K,
Gujarat, and Haryana took a lead in reorientation training of ISM practitioners. In addition,
many senior trainers and program managers participated in international training programs and
visits to various Project States for hands-on experience with the "best practices" in the area. The
benefits were not fully utilized by some States due to lengthy procedures for selection of
candidates. All in all, Gujarat developed an excellent training system, with a special focus on
innovative field-based and practical training.
19.   Training programs also adapted to the policy and program changes brought by the



8
post -ICPD (International Conference on Population and Development) environment to include
greater quality orientation and client focus. Field visits and NIHFW studies confirm that in
particular, the District Training Team (DTT) approach provided continuous on-the-job training
to peripheral health workers at the Sub-Center level. The DTTs carried out regular team based
visits to the health facilities and provided guidance to the service providers at the site by
observing their work and making the required corrections. In training institutions, the content
and process of training was noted to be participatory, problem solving, task oriented and focused
on skill enhancement. The training materials were technically sound and developed by local
trainers.
20.   There has been some wastage of training resources and efforts due to frequent turnovers
of the training staff as well as transfer of the trained personnel to other positions. The large
number of vacant positions in the training institutions, especially in the SIHFWs/RIHFWs, since
the inception of the Project and through Project closing also impeded realization of their full
potentials. Except for Gujarat, it appears unlikely to have full staffing of the State level
institutions in the immediate future. This was often attributed by senior officials to macro-
economic constraints, with a freeze on new hiring. These systemic issues raise the question of
realism in Project design, and could not be resolved despite repeated dialogue of the Task Team
with the Government. Unless addressed, not only would training needs suffer, but a good deal of
training infrastructure and staff accommodation built could remain grossly under-utilized.
MOHFW and the Project States do share these concerns, and during the ICR workshop,
requested continued assistance through the RCH Project and other possible Bank assistance to
strengthen the software aspects of the training institutions for several years.
21.   Conceding the above limitations, it needs to be reiterated that a significant number of
trained managers, supervisors and service providers as well as non-health functionaries are now
available to provide and support effective and quality service delivery. During the Mid-Term
Review and the End-line surveys, different categories of health personnel observed and
interviewed in the clinical and outreach settings received generally satisfactory ratings on most
counts. A large number of functionaries in PHCs and SCs and their supervisors were found to
have received in-service training, acquiring necessary skills in health and FW programs, such as:
anti-natal care (ANC), post-natal care (PNC), the "five cleans" (clean surface, hands, blade, cord
tie and cord stump), signs and symptoms of pregnancy, conduct of delivery, managing birth
complications, immunization, family planning, record keeping, IEC, management and
supervision.
22.   Specifically, during the End-line surveys, Female Health Workers, Health Supervisors
and Medical Officers were appraised on their knowledge and practice in five fields: family
planning, maternal health, child health, communicable diseases, and work planning and
management. Overall, Gujarat emerges at the top, followed by Punjab, Bihar and Haryana, with
J&K at the bottom. As for Female Health Workers, Gujarat needs to give more attention to
training in child health; Haryana to maternal health; and J&K to family planning and work
planning. Family planning remains a weak area for the training of Health Supervisors as well as
Medical Officers in J&K, where more attention is also needed on work planning and
management among Female Health Workers and Medical officers. Similarly, attention is needed
to communicable diseases in the training of Health Supervisors in Bihar and J&K, and for



9
Medical Officers of the three States other than Gujarat and J&K. Finally, work planning and
management demand focus among Health Supervisors in Punjab and Medical Officers in the
States other than Bihar and Gujarat (Tables A and 6A). All the three categories of workers had a
positive response to the change in their working methods due to training. In particular, the
Female Health Workers and Health Supervisors felt that training skills needed to be upgraded at
regular intervals, preferably in clinical settings.
23.   As for the impact of the training on service delivery itself, it is too early to make
judgements. The 1999 National Family Health Survey (NFHS) and the district-level surveys
conducted for the Reproductive and Child Program, are expected to provide this data by mid-
1999, which would provide evidence of progress towards impact objectives.
Efficiency Improvement Objective
24.   Apart from pursuing this objective through human resource development discussed
above, about 16 percent of the Project outlay was specifically earnarked for improving the
management and operation of the FW program by: (a) strengthening administration and
management; (b) developing Human Resource Development Cells (HRDCs); (c) improving
Management Information and Evaluation Systems (MIES); (d) establishing Personnel
Management Information Systems (PMIS); (e) undertaking research on Program Management
and Evaluation, and Human Resources Development; (f) setting up Technical Advisory
Committees; and (g) instituting regular Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms to follow up
implementation progress and bottlenecks.
25.   This was a highly demanding agenda for all Project States as well as MOBFW at the
Center. The States were able to establish State Empowerment Committees, headed by the Chief
Secretary himself; but the Committees were unable to meet regularly and provide effective
oversight over the Projects. Similarly, HRDCs, MIES, PMIS, and the Technical Advisory
Committees set up in various States were yet to provide a sound basis for personnel management
and quality control in operations. NIHFW conducted a number of management researches, and
in collaboration with the Project States, also carried out the MTRs and the ELSs. Considerable
additional investments and time would be required to develop the needed capacity in these
important areas.
26.   Persistent gaps at the State level included: (a) inadequate coordination between the
Project Implementation Units and the Directorates of Health and other related Government
Departments and NGOs; (b) weak ownership of the Project at the State and local levels; and (c)
ineffective mechanisms to monitor service delivery and construction programs. NIHFW
conducted fairly regular monitoring visits to the States, but its observations were only of a
technical and advisory nature. Staffing and resource constraints seemed to have impeded
intensive MOHFW field monitoring, keeping it limited to follow-up of specific programmatic
and financial bottlenecks when urgently needed. During focus group interviews conducted by
the IDA missions - where MOHFW also participated - current as well as former Project
Directors and other senior State officials noted that more regular visits from the Center would
have proved useful in resolving critical implementation issues through interventions and
dialogue with the highest levels of State officials in administration and finance. The States



10
themselves also needed to be much more proactive, taking full ownership of their program and
resource management and establishing vigilant monitoring mechanisms of their own.
C.   PROJECT COSTS AND IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
27.   Financial Objectives. The financial objectives of the Project were fully achieved. The
original Bank support of US$96.0 million included $86.0 million IDA Credit and US$10.0
million IBRD Loan. The latter was necessary to supplement limited IDA funds. However, as a
result of depreciation of the rupee against the dollar, in May 1993 the project resources were
reduced to only IDA Credit of US$63.96 million - with a cancellation of the entire IBRD
component of US$10 million and US$22.74 million ofthe IDA Credit. Subsequent fluctuations
in the dollar/SDR exchange rate, resulted in the final Credit amount of US$69.5 million and this
was fully expended. Since the original rupee allocation made for the Project by the Expenditure
Finance Committee (EFC) was not reduced following the Loan/Credit cancellation, a large part
of the expenditure overflow was met out of the exchange rate gain in favor of the US dollar, and
the remaining from the nationwide RCH Project, as agreed between IDA and GOI. Most of the
RCH funds of US$11.0 million earmarked for IPP VII in February 1997 to cover additional
needs would have been utilized had fund flow constraints not impeded irnplementation in Bihar,
J&K and Punjab in the final days of the Project.
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.   A number of factors affected the pace of implementation, as reflected in the IDA Mission
reports, MTR and ELS, and focus group interviews carried out with former and current Project
Directors and other senior officials as well as representatives of NGOs, local communities and
beneficiaries.
29.   The negative factors included the following:
a. Design Issues. The Project design was too uniforn, proving to be too demanding for
full coverage in the relatively weaker performing States like Bihar and J&K - the latter
being particularly handicapped by long drawn-out civil disturbances and militancy. Such
risks were anticipated during Project formulation, but were thought to be worth taking for
reasons of equity, health indicators and State and local needs. However, no design features
for weaker states nor any specific measures were built.in for ensuring implementation
follow-up in these States. There was also a general lack of realism in the planning of
infrastructure and staffing of the Project Implementation Units and major training
institutions of all the States, without due anticipation of macro-economic capacities to
afford and sustain the ambitious goals.
b. Readiness and Quality at Entry. This was a challenge in all the States as well as the
centrally administered components of NGOs, IEC and Social Marketing. Quantified
monitoring indicators were largely in abeyance; the Borrower's knowledge of the Bank's
procurement procedures was highly deficient; and staffing and decision making power of



11
the implementing units was inadequate, especially with respect to civil works,
procurement, and financial management.
c. Ownership and Commitment. This project was part of a larger centrally sponsored
national Family Welfare Program. As such, states received 90% of the funds as a grant
from GOI and themselves covered the remaining 10%. Also, Program interventions and
content were designed by MOHFW, and implemented by the state. This approach created
some natural internal tensions. On the one hand, it was beneficial from an equity view-
point since it provided relatively protected funds for critical interventions for the poor,
which would otherwise probably not receive state attention. However, it also resulted in
weak state and local ownership. States expected the Center to take the lead in resolving
major operational problems rather than being proactive themselves, and at the end of the
Project most States wanted GOI to assume prime responsibility to mobilize resources for
sustainability of the activities undertaken during the project period. Furthermore,
implementation tended to be bureaucratic, without participatory involvement of
communities and NGOs.
d. Management and Staffing. The State Empowered Committees were set up with delay in
some States; were unable to provide regular oversight in Project matters; and usually did
not delegate necessary administrative and financial authorities to the Project Directors.
This led to lengthy decision making and delayed implementation. Staff turnover was also a
perpetual problem, four of the five Project States having had five or more - one of them,
eight - Project Directors in six years. Nearly perennial vacancies in many operational and
training positions, coupled with concurrent holding of several positions by an individual -
arising out of financial difficulties of the States and their concern to avoid permanent
liability beyond the Project period - also proved debilitating.
e. Monitoring. Perhaps the single greatest weakness in the Project was lack of a systemic
and regular monitoring mechanism at the State and MOHFW levels. This was aggravated
by lack of incentives for monitoring work and inadequate travel and subsistence allowances
for field visits. However, this view of the ICR team is not shared by MOHFW.
f. Coordination. In each state, project implementation was the responsibility of a unit that
was separate from the State's Family Welfare Directorate. As a result, although the project
was expected to strengthen the Family Welfare Program activities, there was poor
coordination between project financed activities and activities of the Family Welfare
Directorate that were financed by the GOI and state budget. As a result, in most of the
project states, mainstreaming and sustainability of project activities pose a serious
challenge.
g. Fund Flow. While GOI released the Project funds regularly to the State Finance
Departments (SFDs), flow of funds from SFDs to the Project Units was a major constraint
in three States - Bihar, J&K and Punjab - virtually throughout the entire course of the
Project. Even during the final week prior to the closing date of June 30, 1998, SFDs in
these States were each withholding more than Rs. I0 crore (US$2.0 million) out of the
corresponding GOI release of Rs.63.93 crore, Rs.46.38 crore and Rs.43.79 crore. Such



12
repeated bottlenecks were explained in terms of macro-economic difficulties and complex
fund release procedures of the States, resulting in low morale and periodic stoppage of
salaries for the Project staff; non-completion of major activities; and outstanding liabilities
to creditors. Joint IDA-MOHFW Missions had occasional success in improving fund flow
through follow-up with the State Governments. However, since the problem is clearly
systemic, it was beyond the realm of an individual Project.
h. Financial Reporting and Audits. Weak financial reporting and lack of timely
reimbursement claims and audits disrupted smooth fund flow from IDA virtually for all the
States and the centrally administered components at different times throughout the
Project's life. About mid-point in the Project cycle, two States - Bihar and J&K - and
three centrally administered components had simultaneously been flagged with "problem
status," due to financial reporting reasons, among others; J&K remained in SOE suspension
for more than two years at a stretch; and during the final week of the Project, two States -
Gujarat (by far the best performing State otherwise) and J&K were both facing SOE
suspension.
i. Civil Works. Lack of the appropriate engineering cells in the Implementation Units
(stipulated under the Project) and ineffective coordination with the agencies responsible for
construction - the Public Works Department (PWD) in most of the States for many
activities, the Rural Engineering Wing (REW) in J&K and District Magistrates (DMs) in
Bihar for the decentralized construction of SCs - led to problems of quality control,
delayed completion and cost escalation. At the closing date, Bihar was unable to obtain the
final figure on the completion status of 250 SCs, planned for construction under the DMs,
for which there was no clear means of accountability and monitoring; and was unable to
claim some possible reimbursements. Lack of rigorous compliance with IDA procurement
procedures also led to compromise with efficiency and economy in certain cases.
Maintenance was also not built into the Project. Finally, lack of a participatory mode led to
tangential involvement of the local communities, at times associated with allocation of
marginal and unsuitable construction sites.
j. Procurement. Procurement in other matters also suffered, especially during the early
years, due to inadequate familiarity of the States with IDA procedures or their reluctance to
follow them diligently. MOHFW and Project States specifically urged that the Bank
procedures be simplified. One specific issue that affected the Project was the GOI ban on
procurement of vehicles except on a replacement basis. This posed a serious problem for
full functioning of the new training institutions like SIBFWs and DTTs, a problem that
could not be resolved despite repeated IDA mission dialogue with senior officials in
MOHFW and DEA.
k. Mid-Term Review (MTR). Although not mandated, an MTR was carried out for the
Project. However, the Project was unable to incorporate the key lessons learnt, since the
MTR process took too long (nearly two years) - because of contracting and completion
delays - and the findings were available too late (during the fifth year of implementation)
for major course corrections for the Project.



13
30.  In view of the challenges noted above, the Project's final achievements need to be
especially appreciated. The following were some of the positive factors:
a. Proactive Initiatives. Committed Project Directors and top management at the State
level did make a difference from time to time. Apart from the three better performing
States, this was evident in J&K during the Project's final two years.
b. Joint IDA-MOHFW-NIHFWMissions. IDA supervision missions were joined by
MOHFW and NIHFW officials and this offered an opportunity for dialogue and
interventions with the political leadership and key senior decision makers in the States and
the Center. To some extent this helped to resolve the impasse on fund flows, delegation of
authority to the Project Directors, and long pending audits and stalled decisions on staffing
and procurement. They also provided occasions for intensive field visits, interaction with
the key stakeholders, and first-hand feedback and guidance to the Project Directors, service
providers and trainers. Multi-state workshops were held regularly and provided
particularly useful opportunities for exchange of experiences and lessons learned between
the Project States.
c. Review of Procurement and Disbursement Matters. The Bank provided formal training
of the Project staff in these areas, joint review and consultations during IDA missions and
continued additional support from consultants and the Bank's New Delhi Office. These
were effective mechanisms for mitigating confusions and expediting decisions.
d. Flexibility and Reallocations. Continual review of Project needs and reallocations of the
available resources for various activities - within the overall Project framework for the
States - were useful in adapting to local needs, as in allocating resources for ISM Centers in
J&K and training of mothers' groups in Punjab; building warehouses in Haryana; and small
wards attached to SCs in Gujarat. Similarly, the MOHFW initiative in making major
reallocations between the Project States - Rs.30 crore (about US$8.0 million) from Bihar to
Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab during the Project's fifth year - enhanced overall utilization
of the IDA resources as well as posed a challenge to Bihar itself to scale up Project efforts.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   The issue of sustainability in the context of the evolving demands of the family welfare
program needs to be approached with realism and as a process much beyond the limited horizon
of the present Project. This needs special attention in the context of relative isolation of Project
efforts from mainstream activities in health and related areas during the implementation.
Nevertheless, significant strides have been made toward setting up a vast network of
infrastructure and staff development for enhanced training and service delivery. Their potential
contribution is certainly promising. At the same time, considerable additional investmnents must
be made to bring the investments made to full fruition over the course of the next five to ten
years. This would demand: (a) consolidation of software aspects of the prograrm in support of
and for the full utilization of the facilities already put in place; (b) graduation of the program



14
toward expanded RCH mandate for quality care in the field; and (c) ownership by the State and
local community in conjunction with other major stakeholders.
32.  It would be most opportune to seek needed support from the RCH resources, especially
for continued human resource development and monitoring. Nodal institutions for reinforcing
training efforts under the RCH Project have already been identified in three of the five IPP VII
States. Further GOI-Bank collaboration in this regard would be useful in ensuring that the
institutions created under the current Project are made fully functional, with the expertise and
material support required for them. The apex institutions like the SIBFW, Punjab and RIHFW,
Kashmir that remained physically incomplete would require special attention to avoid the
wastage of investments already made. While important beginnings have been made under IPP
VII for the demand generation and efficiency improvement objectives, the gains would need to
be reinforced through further support. In earmarking its resources for meeting the potential
shortfalls under the current Project, the RCH Project already registered its commitment to cover
the comprehensive "needs of the national program."
BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   During Project formulation, Bank staff worked closely with the Borrower representatives
in defining the Project strategies and identifying the vast potential demands of the Family
Welfare Program for enhancement of quality based services in the rural health facilities. During
the process of implementation, the program strategy was further strengthened with elements of
the emerging RCH agenda and the expanded GOI-Bank collaboration in the area. However,
although Bank staff were able to identify the implementation risks in two of the Project States,
considerations of equity and desperate client needs in these potentially weak performing States
led to uniform and full coverage of all components in them as in the other Project States. Special
implementation and monitoring modalities were not set up to obviate the difficulties foreseen.
34.   The Project represented a challenge for supervision, It involved five states whose
capitals were geographically distant, and also had field sites that were scattered throughout large
territories. In addition, two states had weak institutional capacity. Resource constraints
restricted the number of mission field visits that could be made, and therefore weaker performing
States were not visited as frequently as would have been desirable. Several alternatives to the
"traditional" mission mode of supervision were used with significant success. Multi-state
workshops and joint review missions with MOHFW and NIHFW were regarded by the Bank and
the Borrower as highly effective in resolving implementation bottlenecks, and in providing
vehicles for exchange of experiences and for technical inputs. Furthermore, the Bank's New
Delhi office (sector specialist, procurement and disbursement specialists) provided continuing
support and hands-on training in procurement and helped resolve funds flow and financial
management issues. Extensive use of local consultants provided readily accessible technical
reviews, particularly for civil, works and training. This project also creatively utilized the
"problem" project status to focus management attention of Bank as well as the Borrower on
more intractable implementation problems in Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir. This greatly
helped to resolve bottlenecks.



15
35.   The Bank's contribution during project implementation was particularly appreciated by
GOI and state officials. In particular, the Bank was rated to be highly effective in mentoring the
Project officials in various aspects of project implementation and monitoring, and in helping
expedite on-the-spot decisions. However, several turnovers in Bank task management posed
some problems of continuity and the institutional memory was found somewhat strained due to
recent archival arrangements in Asia Files and the sector unit itself.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   The Borrower extended a collaborative partnership to the Bank throughout the process of
formulation and implementation of the Project, GOI as well as the State Governments were also
responsive to the demands of the broader program approach under the RCH Project, toward the
end of the current Project. Despite many systemic and macro-economic constraints, the overall
performance of the States was noteworthy. Gujarat and Haryana did well throughout the Project
period; Punjab also was able to complete most of the activities on time; the recovery of Bihar
during the second half of the Project was appreciable; and scaling up of implementation in the
Project's final two years was phenomenal in J&K, given the unusual dislocations arising out of
wide spread civil disturbances.
37.  In the weaker states, Bihar and J&K, financial constraints led to delays in release to the
Project funds sent to State Finance Departments (SFD) by GOI. This problem was a feature
throughout the entire project period in Bihar, for most of the time in J&K and, emerged as a
serious constraint towards the end of the Project period in Punjab. In addition, Bihar in
particular, faced delays in decision making and poor delegation of authority to the project
implementing staff. In general, there were gaps in institutional arrangements. Most State
Empowerment Committees did not provide regular oversight with respect to timely execution,
delegation of authority and fund flow. The Project was handicapped as a result of inadequate
staffing and high staff turnovers in the management, training and civil works units. Delays in
decision making impeded the pace of implementation. The timeliness and quality of financial
reporting as well as procurement planning were often sub-optimal. The most critical weakness
was the absence of an effective system of monitoring and feedback, backed by sufficient staff,
resources and accountability. It should be noted that the above observation is not shared by
MOHEFW.
38.   MOHFW monitored closely the financial progress of the Project States but monitoring of
other aspects of the Project was weaker. There were limited field visits mainly confined to joint
participation in Bank missions. During focus groups interviews conducted by the Bank jointly
with MOHFW, former Project Directors and senior State officials noted that more regular visits
from the Center would have proved useful in resolving critical implementation issues. In the
later years of the Project, review meetings were held between MOHFW and state officials to
review progress and identify critical bottlenecks. A significant and extremely effective
corrective action was the strong signal given by the MOHFW decision that funds originally ear-
marked for specific states could be re-allocated to other project states if performance of a
particular state was unsatisfactory.



16
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   Overall, the Project may be rated as a satisfactory intervention in setting up key building
blocks for a well functioning family welfare program. Between the beginning and the end of the
Project, a large vacuum was filled in all Project States with respect to creating infrastructures for
family welfare services and human resource development. These would now need to be
consolidated in order to ensure continued upgrading of the quantity and quality of services that
the Project initiated. While the quantifiable outcome indicators on infrastructure and personnel
development provide evidence of considerable achievement in capacity building for training and
quality service delivery, it is too early to assess the precise impact of the Project in terms of
specific behavioral changes among the clients and the providers, and their implications for the
family welfare and health indicators. Many valuable lessons emerged out of the design and the
implementation experience that are discussed below.
KEY LESSONS LEARNT
40.   The key lesson learnt was the need for flexibility in Project design to match the varying
requirements and capacities of the individual Project States. Largely in line with the anticipation
at the design stage, Project performance varied substantially between the five States, reflecting
differing capacity, macroeconomic and political situations, and policy environment. Since the
IPP VII design was too uniform, it strained implementation ability in the weaker States and now
leaves concerns for some aspects of sustainability of the investments that may be beyond their
capacity.
41.  It is also critical to limit the Project scope and focus on key interventions, particularly in
low capacity settings. In the weaker States, the Project focused on completing hardware (civil
works and equipment) components rather than 'software' (demand generation, quality of
training, and community participation). Lack of proper blending of the Project needs, thus led to
sub-optimal achievement of the objectives.
42.  It is imperative to give top priority to monitoring and evaluation. Even more crucial is
the creation of a culture, at all levels of management, for using service data as a proactive
management tool for timely feedback and corrective actions. The weaker performing States
would have benefited from more intensive monitoring but no special measures had been built
into the Project to ensure that. A rigorous MTR needs to be planned and implemented on time.
The project design did not include provision for a MTR. Although a MTR was completed, the
Project lost a valuable opportunity for review and course correction because the MTR was
completed too late in the Project cycle and did not provide the basis for in-depth assessment
against a core set of monitoring indicators set during the design stage.
43.   The Project experience reiterates the problem of under-utilization of certain physical
facilities constructed under the Project, in particular Female MPW residential accommodation.
At the same time, a good deal of beneficiary satisfaction also has been noted with respect to the
services rendered by the Female MPWs, even though they had not been living on the Sub-Center



17
premises. It is, thus, important to determine the factors that contribute to Female MPW
effectiveness, and make investments to reinforce them, rather than to continue wasteful
expenditures on staff quartersper se. Appropriate studies and policy decisions need to be made
on this issue.
44.   There are chronic and persistent operational problems that adversely affect
implementation of all Family Welfare Projects in weaker states. These include poor flow of
funds to the implementing agency in states that experience fiscal problems, low procurement
capacity, persistent staff vacancies and high turnover, and lengthy decision-making processes.
These often relate to macro-economic difficulties and problems of governance at the State level,
and are beyond the scope of individual Project teams to address effectively. Unless resolved at a
more macro level, they continue to constrain implementation and create problems of long range
sustainability.
45.   An important lesson is the need for GOI to create incentives to the States through
performance-based financing during Project implementation. In IPP VII, GOI released funds
regularly to the State Finance Departments (SFDs), but the onward flow of funds from the SFDs
to the Project Units was impeded as result of financial difficulties at the State level. Such a
situation would need to be guarded against through perforinance-based financing referred to
above or through reallocation of funds to Project States. The latter mechanism was found
effective in energizing performance as a result of reallocation of substantial funds by MOHFW
from Bihar to three better performing States during the final year of the Project staff.
46.   This project demonstrates effective use of lower cost supervision mechanisms based on a
strengthened Bank field office presence. Local staff and consultants conducted Workshops and
provided hands-on training for project officials. Multi-State workshops proved to be a valuable
approach to sharing of lessons and experience. Joint IDA review missions in conjunction with
MOHFW and NIHFW provided a useful opportunity for policy dialogue, exchange of
information on technical and program matters, and swift resolution of implementation
bottlenecks.



18
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of           Substantial       Partial        Negligible         Not
Objectives                                                              Applicable
Macro policies                                                               X
Sector Policies                             X
Financial objectives                                                         X
Institutional                               X
development
Physical objectives         X
Poverty reduction                           X
Gender issues                               X
Other social objectives                                                      X
Environmental                                                                X
objectives
Public sector                               X
management
Private sector                                                               X
management



19
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
B. Project Sustainability     Likely               Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance           Highly              Satisfactory           Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                    X
Preparation assistance                                                 X
Appraisal                                                              X
Supervision                                       X
D. Borrower                   Highly              Satisfactory           Deficient
performance            satisfactory
Preparation                                       X
Implementation *                                  X
Covenant Compliance                               X
Operation (if
applicable)
E. Assessment of              Highly              Satisfactory           Deficient
outcome                satisfactory
x
* The performance of the five Project States was uneven. Haryana and Gujarat are rated as
Highly Satisfactory; Punjab as Satisfactory; and, Bihar and J&K as Deficient



20
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                    Purpose                 Year of          Status
Approval
First Population Project    To support the farnily welfare program in  1972  Credit closed
Cr. 312-IN             five districts of Mysore (now Kamataka)           06/30/80.
and six districts of Uttar Pradesh
Project Completion
Report (PCR) 6/81;
PPAR 1/82
Second Population Project To support the family welfare program in  1980  Credit closed
Cr. 981-IN              six districts of Uttar Pradesh and three         03/31/88
districts of Andhra Pradesh
PCR 1/90; PPAR
8/90
Tanil Nadu Integrated   To inprove the nutritional and health   1980     Credit closed
Nutrition Project I (TINP)  status of preschool children and pregnant    03/31/89.
Cr. 1003-IN             and nursing women.
PCR 1/91; Impact
Evaluation report
12/94
Third Population Project   To support the family welfare program in  1984  Credit closed
Cr. 1426-IN            six districts of Kamataka and four                03/31/92.
districts of Kerala.
PCR 8/93.
Fourth Population Project  To support the family welfare program in  1985  Credit closed
Cr. 1623-IN            four districts of West Bengal                     03/31/94.
PCR 12/94.
Fifth (Bombay and       To reduce infant, child and matemal     1988     Credit closed
Madras) Population      morbidity and mortality and to moderate          03/31/96.
Project                 fertility in the cities of Bombay, Madras
Cr. 1931-IN             and other urban areas of Tamil Nadu, and         ICR 10/96.
to assist the Municipal Authorities in
designing and implementing improved
health and family welfare programs.
Sixth (First National  To support the family welfare program in  1989    Credit closed
Family Welfare Training   the states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra            05/31/97.
and Systems            Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh.
Development) Population                                                 ICR 2/98.
Project Cr. 2057-IN)
Tamil Nadu Integrated   To extend the successful TINP program   1990     Credit scheduled
Nutrition Project II (TINP  to all of Tamil Nadu's 20,000 villages.      closed 12/31/97.
II)
Cr. 2158-IN
Integrated Child        To imnprove the nutrition and health    1990     Credit scheduled
Development Services    standards of pre-school children and             closed 12/31/97.
Project I (ICDS I)      mothers in tribal, drought-prone and
Cr. 2173-IN             otherwise disadvantaged areas of Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.



21
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits (continued)
Credit Title                    Purpose                    Year of         Status
Approval
Eighth (Family     To help the Government of India increase the  1991    Credit scheduled
Welfare Urban      supply of family welfare services in the slum         to close 06/30/01.
Slums) Population    populations of Andhra Pradesh. Kamataka,
Project            West Bengal and Delhi.
Cr. 2394-IN
Child Survival and    To support the Government of India's Maternal  1992  Credit closed
Safe Motherhood    and Child Health Program.                             09/30/95.
Project
Cr. 2300-IN                                                              ICR 03/97.
Integrated Child   To improve the nutrition and health status of  1993   Credit scheduled
Development        preschool children and their mothers by                to close 09/30/00.
Services Project   strengthening and increasing the outreach of
(ICDS II)          the ICDS program in Bihar and Madhya
Cr. 2470-IN        Pradesh.
Ninth (Family      To support the family welfare program in the  1994     Credit scheduled
Welfare - Assam,    states of Assam, Karnataka and Rajasthan.            to close 12/31/01
Rajasthan and
Kamataka)
Population Project
Cr. 2630-IN
Andhra Pradesh     To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation and  1994  Credit scheduled
First Referral Health  use of health resources through policy and        to close 03/31/02.
System Project     institutional development; and (ii) improve
Cr. 2663-IN        system performance of health care through
improvements in quality, effectiveness and
coverage of health services at the first referral
or secondary level to better serve the neediest
sections of society.
State Health       To assist the Government of Kamataka, Punjab  1996     Credit scheduled
Systems II Project   and West Bengal to (i) improve efficiency in        to close 03/31/02.
Cr. 2833-IN        the allocation and use of health resources
through policy and institutional development;
and (ii) improve performance of the health care
system through improvements in the quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services at
the first referral level and selective coverage at
the primary level to better serve the neediest
sections of society.
Reproductive and    To assist the FWP to: (a) improve management  1997    Credit scheduled
Child Health       performance by nationwide implementation of           to close 03/31/03
Cr. N-018-IN       policy change referred to as the "participatory
planning approach" and institutional
strengthening; (b) improve quality, coverage
and effectiveness of existing FW services and
progressively expand scope and content; and
(c) increase access while improving quality in
selected disadvantaged districts and cities.



22
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits (continued)
Credit Title                     Purpose                      Year of        Status
Approval
Second State Health  To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation and use  1997  Credit
Systems            of health resources through policy and institutional     scheduled to
Development        development; and (ii) improve performance of the         close
Project Cr. 2833-IN   health care system through improvements in the        03/31/02.
quality, effectiveness and coverage of health
services at the first referral level to better serve the
neediest sections of society.
TB Control Project   To reduce mortality, morbidity and disability due  1997  Credit
Cr. 2936-IN        to TB and to reduce the incidence of infectious TB       scheduled to
by focusing on the cure of infectious patients.          close
12/31/02.
Malaria Control    To reduce death, morbidity and social and       1997     Credit
Project Cr. 2964-IN   economic losses from malaria through an               scheduled to
improved malaria control program including: (i)          close
using a better mix of effective malaria control          03/31/03.
interventions responsible to local needs; and (ii)
strengthening the Directorate of the National
Malaria Program (NMP) and modifying its
orientation.
Orissa Health      To assist the Government of Orissa (GOO) to: (i)  1998   Credit
Systems            improve efficiency in the allocation and use of          scheduled to
Cr. N-04 l-N       health resources through policy and institutional        close on
development; and (ii) improve the performance of         03/31/04
the health care system through improvements in
the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health
services at the first referral level and selective
coverage at the community level to better serve the
neediest sections of society. The project would
support other health programs aimed at reducing
infant and matemal mortality rates, which are
especially high in Orissa.
Women & Child      To improve the nutritional and health of pre-
Development        school-aged children and women, by increasing
Project            the quality, imnpact, and cost-effectiveness of the
Project ID 35827.    Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS)
program in the states of Kerala, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. In
addition, the project aims to strengthen the ICDS
program in the remaining states and union
territories by improving the quality of worker
training in each of them.
Maharashtra Health   To assist the Government of Maharashtra (GOM)  1998    Credit
Systems            to: (i) improve efficiency in the allocation and         scheduled to
Development        use of health resources through policy and               close
Project            institutional development; and (ii) improve the           09/30/04
Project ID 50651   performance of the health care system through
systemic enhancements in the quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services at the
first referral level and selective coverage at the
community level.



23
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                           Date
Preparation                                    October 1, 1989
Depart Appraisal                               January 12, 1990
Negotiations                                   April 11, 1990
Board Approval                                 May 17, 1990
Signing                                        October 23, 1990
Effectiveness                                  March 8, 1991
Mid-Term (if applicable)                       May 31, 1997
Credit Closing                                 June 30, 1998
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 91   FY 92  FY 93  FY 94  FY 95   FY 96   FY 97  FY 98   FY99
Appraisal      3.11    16.42    38.60   60.95   77.81    87.51    93.01    96.70
Estimate
Revised
Estimate       9.84    12.66   22.30   34.97   43.53    47.03    56.03    63.03    63.95
after
cancellation
of exchange
rate savings
Actual         9.84    11.55    19.30   32.36   38.86    50.97    61.08   67.86   69.59
Actual as %    316       70      50      53      50       58        66      70
of appraised
estimate
Actual as %    100       91      87      93      89       100      100      100     100
of revised
estimate



24
Table 5A
Key Indicators for Project Implementation:
Number of Training Facilities Established and Functioning
TRAINING FACILITY    BIHAR   GUJARA T  HARYANA  JAMMU &   PUNJAB   TOTAL
KASHMIR
p _         P      c      p      C       p      C      p    C      p      C
SIHFW/RIHFW*                 1      I     1      1      I      1      2       1      1           6     4
RTC MIF                      14          -       -      - --                 --    --   --   14    1 1
DTT Centers                  39    39    16    16      17    15       9       8      12   12   93    90
ANMT Facilities             22    21    32    32        2      2      15      8                 71    63
MPW (Male & Female)                                     5      3                     7     7    12    10
Training Facilities
HA Training School                                                                   1    1    1        1
H & FW Training School                                                               1    I    I        I
Other:
PHC Training    15    15                                                    40   40    55    55
Amnex                                    10    72       1      8                                 11    80
Exp. Of Training Facilities
Total                       91    87   59    121    26    29          26     17     62   61   264   315
*NOTE: RIHFWKashmir is near completion; SIHFWPunjab is about halfcompleta
P = Planned; C = Completed
Table 5B
Key Indicators for Project Implementation:
Upgrading of Service Delivery Facilities
SERVICE                BIHAR           GUJARAT    HARYANA    JAMMU&                           PUNJAB                TOTAL
DELIVERY                                                                 KASHMIR
P    C    P    C   P    C                         P            C                C         P          C
Sub-Centers         1,000    750    600       684     451    443       500       382       400       400       2,951      2,659
ISM Dispensary                                                          100       75        .                   100        75
Upgraded PHCs        144      81      3        3       50     47        85        57       100        100       382        288
Logistic Stores            |       |                   12      8        2         2                   -          -          10
Total               1,144    831    603       687    5513    498       687       516       500       500       3447       3032
Number of vehicles    72      34      -       142             100       142      120       100        53        314        449
(purchased or made
road worthy)       _        _
Transport Repair      --      --      --       -       --     --        2          1                             2          1
Workshop                   I       I
Delivery Kits       9,651      -   |        950,000          4,999   250,000   66,000   600,000   600,000   859,651       1.62M
NOTE: P = Planned; C   Completed



25
Table 5C
Key Indicators for Project Implementation:
Training Coverage
CATEGORY    BIHAR                       GUJARA T   HARYANA   JAMU &                                 PUNJAB                TOFTAL
KASHMIR
p        c         p C       P        C                   P C       P         C                    P          C
Key Trainers                   474      256       242        100      212       -                    130       162       486       1,090
Medical Officers     4,704    3,884    2,050      2,034     1,284    1,234      1,396     1,176     9,100     11,220    18,534    19,548
Supervisors          2,980    2,051    11,880    11,469    2,661     3,364       110       105      3,147     7,019    20,778    24,008
MPW - Female        12,776   10,673    7,950      7,661     7,798    6,702      2,482     3,717     6,600     15,777    37,606    44,530
MPW - Male           6,354    4,776    5,639      4,896     2,544     1,549                         5,900     11,978    20,437    23,199
ISM practitioners                .       795       762       498      498       3,969     1,263                         5,262      2,523
Non-Health                                       78,358    10,000   10,444    9,032       7,075     15,000    23,500    34,032    119,377
Functionaries
Members of Rural                                                                                    1,000     12,310    1,000     12,310
Women's Groups
Total               26,814   21,858   28,570   105,422   24,885   24,003   16,989        13,336   40,877    81,966   138,135   246,585
NOTE:: P = Planned; C = Completed
!. The figures for Punjab for Non-Health Functionaries includes Dais.
Table 5 D
Key Indicators for Project Implementation:
List of IEC Activities Conducted Annually
Activity                                                         Average Number Per Year in all
Five Project States
Electronic Media:
Radio Programs                                                                      54,444
Interactive Listener Participation on Radio                                           156
Television Programs and Spots (paid)                                                 3700
Free Air Time on radio                                                          2 minutes/day
Free Air Time on TV                                                             2 minutes/day
Intensive Interactive and Area Specific
Song and drama performances                                                         36,700
Film shows                                                                          47,600
Oral communication sessions                                                         22,500
Photo Exhibitions                                                                   110,670
TV shows                                                                             5,910
Inter Personal Communication
Mahila Swasthya Sangh                                                               75,568
Joint training of ICDS and ANM                                                     1,10,105
Training of BEEs                                                                      517



26
Table 6A
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Training Quality and Impact
Percent having critical knowledge
(Data from Endline Surveys)
CATEGORY   T  BIHAR                 GUJARAT I HARYANA                  J& K           PUNJAB
Female Health Workers
Family Planning           86              89              81              55              91
Maternal Health           74              91              55              68              82
Child Health            82              55              53              68               85
Comm. Diseases            95              99              96              66              100
Work Planuing            87              95              90              41               99
Female Health Supervisors
Family Planning           81              90              86              45              90
Maternal Health           60              95              82              60              100
Child Health            72              62              42              80               71
Comm. Diseases            35              93              94              35               82
Work Planning            61              68              80               63              56
Medical Officers
Faniily Planning          72             100              79              55               82
Maternal Health           90              73              82              83              79
Child Health            85              81              77               86              74
Comm. Diseases            57              70              44              82              40
Management i            100             78              27               32              53



27
Table 6B
Key Indicators for Project Operation:
Utilization of Upgraded Facilities
BIHAR    GUJARAT   HARYANA                   J& K    PUNJAB
ELS           ELS            ELS            ELS          ELS
% of Sub-Centers with         11            47              60             0            10
resident HW (F)
% of PHCs with MOs            86            67              57            100           30
residing in/near campus
Table 6C
Key Indicators for Project Operation:
Beneficiaries Assessment on Delivery of
Family Welfare Services at Sub Centers
TOPIC                          BIHAR        GUJARAT   HARYANA             J& K         PYNJAB
Sub Center (SC)
Suitability of Hours of SC    84.5%         87.2%         100.0%         72.6%         82.6%
Time to reach SC (less than   63.5%         73.3%         93.0%          85.2%        75.2%
20 minutes)
Mode of Travel (by foot)      90.1%         87.2%         99.5%          98.5%         80.5%
Satisfactory behavior of        84.2%         98.4%         98.4%         100.0%        78.0%
CHW'S at SCs
Home visit by ANM
Conducts home visit           64.5%         93.3%         100.0%         99.1%         33.8%
Home visit (monthly)          26.5%         35.7%          38.2          3.8%          4.0%
Advises on Immunization,      61.9%         72.3%         60.0%          99.1%         61.0%
Family Planning & Ante-
Natal Care.



28
Table 6D
Key Indicators for Project Operation:
Fertility, Mortality and Coverage Indicators
BIHAR             GUJARAT            HARYANA             PUNJAB           NA TIONAL
Baseline   Most    Baseline    Most    Baseline   Most   Baseline   Most   Baseline   Most
recent              recent             recent             recent             recent
data                data               data               data               data
1. TFR            4.4       4.5       3.1       3.2       4.0      3.7       3.1      2.9      3.6       3.5
2. IMR             69       71         69        62       68        68       53        51       80       71
3. %Infants        11       40         50        65       54        70       62        84       35       63
fully
irmnunized
4. % Women         37       N/A        76        92       73       100       88        87       62       63
Receiving ante-
natal care
5. % Assisted      27       33         57        73       84.4      92      94.5      98.2      46       53.4
at delivery by a
doctor/nurse/tra
ined midwife   ___ __                          ___                  _
Sources: (1) From Sample Registration System (SRS). Baseline 1991; most recent date 1995.
(2) From SRS. Baseline 1991; most recent data 1997.
(3) and (4) Baseline data (1992-93) from National Family health Survey (NFHS); most recent data (1995-97)
from UNICEF Multi-Indicator Cluster Surveys in India (MICS)
(5) SRS. Baseline 1991; most recent data 1997
Note: Surveys may not be entirely comparable as definitions and questions may vary.
N.B.: Data for Jammu and Kashmir are not available.



29
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                  | Purpose as Defined at       Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Bihar
Training needs assessment study          To identify training needs.  Completed  Used to develop training plan
Report on Baseline Survey in Bihar       To provide baseline data    Completed   Used in project evaluation
for project planning.
Mid-term Evaluation of IPP-VII Project in  To assess project      Completed      Recommendations of the MTR
Bihar - A Final Report September, 1997   performance.                            implemented during remainder
of project
Endline Survey on Training Activities    To collect endline survey   Completed   Utilized to prepare ICR.
data upon completion of
project
Report of Endline Survey of Civil Works  To collect endline survey   Completed   Utilized to prepare ICR.
data upon completion of
project.
Punjab
Baseline Survey                          To provide baseline data    Completed   Used in project evaluation.
for project planning.
Mid-term evaluation                      To assess project        Completed      Recommendations of the MTR
performance.                            implemented during remainder
of project
Endline Survey on training needs         To collect endline survey   Completed   Utilized to prepare ICR.
data upon completion of
project.
Report of Endline Survey of Civil Works.  To collect endline survey    Completed  Utilized to prepare ICR.
data upon completion of
project.
Jammu and Kashmir
Communication Needs Assessment Study     Examine existing behavior  Completed    Used to prepare
Jammu & Kashmir Volume I and II                                                  communication strategies.
Training needs assessment study          To identify training needs.  Completed  To develop training plan.
Mid-term Evaluation.                     To assess project        Completed      Recommendations of the MTR
performance                             implemented during remainder
of project
Endline Survey of civil works.           To collect endline survey    Completed  Utilized to prepare ICR.
data upon completion of
____________________________________________  project.



30
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Study                    Purpose as Defined at     Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Gujarat
A Report on Training Activities in Gujarat.   To identify training needs.  Completed  Used to prepare training plan.
Report on Baseline Survey in Gujarat Vol. I   To provide baseline  Completed   Used in project evaluation.
(Household and Eligible Couple)         training for project
planning.
Report on Baseline Survey in Gujarat Vol. II  To provide baseline  Completed   Used in project evaluation.
(Services Providers)                   training for project
planning
Report on Baseline Survey in Gujarat Vol. III  To provide baseline  Completed  Used in project evaluation.
(Training Dais)                        training for project
planning
Report on Baseline Survey in Gujarat Vol.    To provide baseline  Completed    Used in project evaluation.
IV (Executive Summary)                 training for project
planning
Monitoring Communication Needs for      Examnine existing behavior  Completed  Used to prepare
Health and Family Welfare The                                                  communication strategies.
Communication Needs Assessment in the
USAID Assisted Areas Projects in Gujarat,
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra
and Punjab
Mid-term Evaluation                     To assess project       Completed      Recommendations of the MTR
performance                            implemented during remainder
of project
Endline Survey on Training Activities  To collect endline survey   Completed   Utilized to prepare ICR.
data upon completion of
project.
Endline Survey of Civil Works IPP VII  To collect endline survey   Completed   Utilized to prepare ICR.
Gujarat Report August 1998              data upon completion of
project.
Harayana
Report on Baseline Survey in Haryana Vol. I  To provide baseline  Completed    Used in project evaluation.
Households & Eligible Couples MODE      training for project
planning
Report on Baseline Survey in Haryana Vol.   To provide baseline  Completed     Used in project evaluation.
II Health Infrastructure MODE          training for project
planning
Report on Baseline Survey in Haryana Vol.   To provide baseline  Completed     Used in project evaluation.
III Trained Birth Attendants           training for project
planning



31
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Study                    Purpose as Defined at     Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Harayana
Report on Baseline Survey in Gujarat Vol.    To provide baseline  Completed   Used in project evaluation.
IV (Executive Summary)                 training for project
planning
Monitoring Communication Needs for     Examine existing behavior  Completed    Used to prepare
Health and Family Welfare. The                                                 communication strategies.
Communication Needs Assessment in the
USAID Assisted Areas Projects in Gujarat,
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra
and Punjab
Mid-term Evaluation of Training and Civil    To assess project  Completed      Recommendations of the MTR
Works Activities under World Bank Assisted  performance                        implemented during remainder
IPP-VII Project in Haryana August, 1996                                        of project.
Endline Survey India Population Project-VII  To collect endline survey   Completed  Utilized to prepare ICR.
Haryana                                 data upon completion of
project
Endline Survey of Civil Works Under IPP  To collect endline survey   Completed  Utilized to prepare ICR
VII in the State of Haryana             data upon completion of
project
National Component
Report of Role of National Institute of  End of project evaluation.  Completed    j Utilized in preparation of ICR.
Family Welfare, 1998                                                         I
Report of Social Marketing, Dept. of Family   End of project evaluation.   Completed    | Utilized in preparation of ICR.
Welfare, 1998                                                                I
Status Report - Involvement of Voluntary  End of project evaluation.  Completed    | Utilized in preparation of ICR.
organizations in Family Welfare Programme,
IPP-VII Project, 1998                                                        l



Table 8. Project Costs and Disbursement Performance by Expenditure Category
(in million US$)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Revised Estimate (US$M)           Actual Estimate (US$M)
Item                   Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign         Total    Local    Foreign          Total
Costs      Costs               Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
Civil works and related professional  30.55    6.25       36.8     28.69     3.91        32.6       29.13     3.97           33.1
fees
Equipment, furniture, books and    10.85       4.65       15.5     9.9       1.10        11.0       7.83      0.87            8.7
vehicles
Consultant's services and local and  30.8      -          30.8      14.2     -           14.2       14.2      -               14.2
overseas fellowships
Incremental salaries, consumable   9.09        1.01       10.1      10.88    0.82        11.7       12.55     0.95            13.5
materials and operation and
maintenance costs
Unallocated                        -           3.5        3.5
Total                              81.29       15.41      96.7     63.67     5.83        69.5       63.71     5.79            69.5
Table 8B: Project Financing
.______________  Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Revised Estimate (US$M)                Actual Estimate (US$M)
Source             Local      Foreign        Total                                           Local Costs    | Foreign       Total
Costs      Costs                                                                           Costs
IBRD/IDA           _                        | 96.7                  |            | 69.5     l                l               69.5
GOI                          |             |  78.9                  |            | 78.9     l                |               75.9
| TOTAL            |_______    |_______       175.6       __l_l 148.4                       l                l    .       l 145.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits - Non-applicable.



33
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text    Covenant  Status                    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Reference    Class
CREDIT    Article IV      1        C    The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate    Complied with.
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Project. The
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall have reasonably requested.
3.2         5        CP    The Borrower shall maintain the Administrative Cell   Complied with
established by it in its Ministry of Health and Family Welfare  partially.
for the purpose of coordination project activities between the
Center and Project States, in accordance with a key staffing
__________        _________           plan agreed to by the Borrower and Association.
3.3        10        C    The Borrower shall review and revise the job descriptions  Complied with.
and work routines of health workers and assistants.
3.4        10        C    The Borrower shall review the existing procedures for  Complied with.
providing grants to private voluntary organizations involved
in the family welfare program and by January '92 take
appropriate action to enable such organizations to participate
more effectively in the national family welfare program.
3.5        10        C    The Borrower shall, as part of its concurrent evaluation of the  Increased use of
National Family Welfare Program, review the impact method  temporary
specific incentives in the strategy to increase the use of  contraceptive
temporary methods of contraceptives amongst lower parity    method is part of
couples. The findings of this review shall be made available  the ongoing
to the Association for discussion during the Annual Review    development of the
the following year.                                  family welfare
____________    ________ __  _strategy.
2.1        10        C    The Project States shall each prepare and furnish to the Bank   Complied with.
Group for its review and comment, an annual IEC plan.
2.2        10        C    The Project States shall in conjunction with the Borrower,  Complied with.
adequately fund and maintain their respective CHCs, PHCs,
and sub-center facilities and equipment provided under the
project.
2.3         5        CP    The Project States shall each establish and staff according to   Partially complied
a key staffing plan agreed with the Bank Group (a) an  with.
Institute of Health and Family Welfare; (b) Human Resources
Development Cell; (c) District Training Center/Teams; and
_________           (d) Construction Cells.
2.4        10        CD    The Project States shall in conjunction with the Borrower  Under
identify blocks/districts for the operational research on  implementation
measurement and evaluation of the family welfare program  nationwide as part
and release those from present target-setting procedures.  of the
Reproductive and
Child Health
(RCH) Project.
2.5        10        CP    The Project States shall cause its HRDCs to (a) develop and    Plans underway for
institute a Personnel Management Information System; (b)    sustainable staffing
establish systems intended to maintain the agreed staffing  arrangements.
pattern with reference to key institutional personnel.
2.6        10       CD    The Project States shall in conjunction with the Borrower,  Under
prepare and furnish terms of reference for additional  implementation as
innovative schemes in support of the family welfare program   part of the RCH
to the Bank Group for review and comment.            Project.



34
Status:        C              Complied with
CD             Compliance after delay
NC             Not complied with
SOON           Compliance expected in reasonable short time
CP             Complied with partially
NYD            Not yet due
Covenant Class:
1      Accounts/Audit
2      Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3      Flow and utilization of project funds
4      Counterpart funding
5      Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6      Environmental covenants
7      Involuntary resettlement
8      Indigenous people
9      Monitoring, review and reporting
10     Implementation
11     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12     Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13     Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual/Statement (OD or
OP/BP) was noticed. With the introduction of LACI, more attention is being paid to financial
management.



Table 12A. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
1989      1990       1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999
Project Cycle      SW        SW         SW       SW       SW        SW       SW        SW       SW        SW       SW
Preparation to appraisal   18.2    38.4
Appraisal                      18.0
Negotiations                   6.1        9810                                  369
Supervision                               9.1       18.7     21.8     50.9     30.6       52.9     71.5     23.1
Completion                                                                                                            18.0
Table 12B. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US Dollars)
._________________   1989  1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     1999
Project Cycle       $         $          $        $        $         $        $       ,$         $         $        $
Preparation to appraisal   41.0    108.8
Appraisal                       40.3
Negotiations                    18.1
Supervision             __                23.5      41.4     57.9      112.8    92.6      94.4     123.2    69.9                        w
Completion             _                                                                                               28.4a
_/planned



36
Table 13. Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of Project  Month/Year  Number   Days in   'Specialization  'Performance Rating    Problems
Cycle                       Of       Field      Represented    I O.S3    Dev. obj.
Persons
Familiarization
Familiarization
Preparation         03/89
Preparation         07/89
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal           1/90         4          16
Supervision 1      9-10/90       5         12        ME, D, A, E      U         U       AF, SP, OS
Supervision 2       12/91        3          4       ME, CA, CTS       S         S           IP
Supervision 3       9/93         6          4       CA, CTS, ME       U         U       PR, OS, AF,
IP
Supervision 4      2-3/94        6         23       ME, CA, SIS       U         U        PR. IP. AF
Supervision 5     11-12/94       5          7       ME, CA, CTS       S         S           AF
Supervision 6       8/94         7         12       CA, CTS, ME       S         S         AF, IP
Supervision 7       11/95        4          8       CA, CTS, MS       U         U        IP, AF, IP,
__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _          O S
Supervision 8       6/96         6          14      MS, CTS, ME       S          S          AF
Supervision 9     10-11/96       5          17     MS, CA, C, ME      S          S          AF
MTR                 4/97         5          18       MS, CA, C,       S         U         IP, PM
I____________   ________  |____ _  SIS,  D
Supervision 10      11/97        4          18      MS, CA, C, D      S          S        IP, PM
ICR                 6/98         6          15       MS, D, SIS,      SS                  AF, PM
CTS, SS
A=Architect, C=Consultant, CA=Consultant Architect, CE=Consultant Educator, CTS=Consultant Training
Specialist, DEM=Demographer, ME=Medical Educator, MS=Management Specialist, SIS=Senior
lmplementation Specialist, SS=Social Sector Specialist
2 The earlier performance ratings were based on a numbered system
3 IOS=Implementation (overall status)
4 AF=Availability of finds, CL=Compliance with legal covenants, IP=Implementation progress, OS=Overall status,
PM=Project management performance, PR=Procurement progress SP=Studies progress



Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
Aide Memoire
June 1998
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    As part of the thematic supervision of the India Population Portfolio, the final IDA
Review Mission for the Seventh Population Project was held between June 8 to 22, 1998. The
key objectives of the Mission were to: (i) assess the status of Project implementation on the eve
of the imminent closing date of June 30, 1998; (ii) review the End Line Surveys (ELS); and (iii)
finalize the preparations for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in consultation with
the GOI-MOHFW. Special attention was devoted to: following up on the implementation
benchmarks agreed to during the November 1997 mission; intensifying efforts for
implementation completion during the remaining days; setting up arrangements for financial
closing and institutional sustainability beyond the Project period; and completing the
documentation for ELS and ICR. The Mission participated in a two-day workshop on ELS
arranged by the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) in its premises in
Delhi, which was attended by senior officials of MOHFW and all five Project States. Field visits
were undertaken by the Mission in Bihar, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), and Punjab,
jointly with representatives of MOHFW and NIHFW. Valuable dialogue was carried out with
the Project authorities as well as a number of former Project Directors and other senior officials
associated with Project implementation in preceding years. The Mission's consultant architect
had earlier visited Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana and J&K.
2.    The Mission comprised of Messrs./Mmes. Badrud Duza (Mission Leader), SASHP;
Tirtha Rana (Health Specialist), SACKA; Suneeta Singh (Consultant/Public Health Specialist);
M. C. Gupta (Consultant/Management and Budget); Rajiv Aggarwal (Consultant/Architect); and
Rashmi Sharma (Consultant/NGO and related components), SASHP. Dr. Indra Pathmanathan,
India Population Team Leader, led the initial discussions with the MOHFW and DEA on the
broad Population portfolio issues. Messrs. Mam Chand (Senior Procurement Engineer) and K.
Radhakrishnan (Financial Analyst) of NDO provided advice on procurement and disbursement
matters, respectively. The present Aide Memoire summarizes the conclusions of the Mission,
and will need to be confirmed by IDA management through a post-mission letter.
3.    The Mission conveys its deep appreciation to the Union and State Government officials
for valuable consultations on critical issues at this concluding stage of the Project. Special
thanks are due to Mr. K. S. Sugathan, Joint Secretary (MOHFW); Mr. A. K. Mehra, Joint
Director, Area Projects (MOHFW); and Dr. H. Helen, Director, NIHFW, for deliberation on
Project issues. The wrap-up meeting, held on June 22, was chaired by Mr. Sugathan, and
attended by representatives of all five Project States and concerned officials of MOHFW and
NIHFW.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
B. KEY IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES: GENERAL
4.    Overview of Performance. This has been the final supervision mission, the closing date
being June 30, 1998. The development objectives of the Project have been significantly
achieved in terms of: (i) vast expansion of the physical infrastructure for family welfare and
related service delivery at the outreach level; (ii) enhanced demand for services through IEC,
NGO and social marketing efforts; (iii) significant improvement in the quality of services
through the development of a wide network of training institutions for different levels of -
program functionaries, community leaders and opinion makers from the State to the District
level; and (iv) strengthened management and MIS. Project implementation has been completed
with reasonable satisfaction for the Centrally administered components of IEC, NGO, social
marketing, and NIHFW; would be attained more than originally planned for the States of
Gujarat, Haryana, and Punjab; is substantially over in Bihar; and is getting close to reasonably
satisfactory conclusion in Jammu and Kashmir, despite a late start and continuation under
formidable circumstances.
5.    The final disbursement is expected to exceed the IDA Credit of US$69.5 million
(exchange rate adjusted) by about US$5-7 million. The expenditure overflow would be adjusted
out of the RCH funds of US$11.4 million, as arranged in January 1998. The RCH funds might
not be fully utilized in view of: (i) slow progress in the implementation of additional activities
undertaken in Haryana and Punjab; (ii) persistent fund flow problem in Bihar, Janumu and
Kashmir, and Punjab, aggravating implementation problems during the last six months of the
Project; and (iii) exchange rate changes, resulting in higher proceeds in terms of Rupees
available to the Project. The Endline Surveys and related documentation in connection with
completion of the project are in progress and GOI and the Project States are preparing for a final
workshop on Project Completion around the end of September 1998.
6.    Outstanding Issues. Despite the constraints noted above, the pending issues identified
during the November 1997 mission have been largely resolved (see: Annex IA). New
benchmarks relating to implementation completion and Project closing and related
documentation were also agreed to during the current mission (see: Annex 1B).
7.    Project Closing. The Mission briefed the Government on the process relating to the
closing of the Project on June 30, 1998. It was clarified that subject to confirmation by IDA
management, up to October 31, 1998 (i.e., four months following Project closing), withdrawals
from the Project funds would be permitted for eligible expenditures to cover payments made, or
payments due for goods, work and services provided for approved activities carried out on or
before the closing date (June 30, 1998); and that advances made would not be treated as
expenditures incurred for the purpose of reimbursement from IDA. It was pointed out that the
stipulation on freezing expenditures as of June 30, 1998 would be applied to all Project expenses
including the State component (10 percent) of Project costs, the remaining 90 percent of which
are covered by GOI as grant to the States.
8.    Funding Shortfall, Fund Flow, and Expenditure Performance. Annex 2A reflects on
the funding resource and shortfall scenario; Annex 2B, the overall expenditure performance; and
Annex 2C, expenditure perfornance by year and components. The exchange rate adjusted



Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
Credit (net of cancellations) of US$69.5 million is now left with a balance of US$2.7 million.
Against this, claims eligible for reimbursement could be of the order of US$12.9 million.
However, fund flow problems could retard Project implementation, resulting in a possible
shortfall of US$5 to 7 million. This could be met from RCH Project funds as noted above.
9.    As of March 1998, the Project expended Rs.296.2 crore (88 percent) out of the total
Project cost of Rs.335.7 crore -- Project States, Rs.223.5 crore (81 percent of allocation); and
Centrally administered components, Rs.72.8 crore (over 100 percent of allocation). Subject to
availability of funds in all States, total Project expenditure by June 30, 1998 could be Rs.362.6
crore. In this context, the Mission noted the grossly insufficient release offunds from State
Departments of Finance to the Projects in Punjab, J&K and Bihar, severely constraining
Project implementation (Rs.18 crore in Punjab, Rs.15.8 crore in J&K and Rs.10 crore in Bihar,
pending release during the last fortnight of the Project), which needs immediate resolution.
10.  Infrastructure. The Mission reviewed the status of all civil works and confirmed the
final actions. As detailed in the update of civil works component in Annex 3, construction of the
original targets for various facilities is largely complete in all the States; and additional
construction in Gujarat and Haryana are nearing completion. While the construction is generally
of satisfactory quality, initial review identified many buildings with defects and missing utilities
that need further attention. Outstanding constructions and minor works are mostly in Bihar and
J&K, and in Punjab the SIHFW remains incomplete due to fund flow problems. It was agreed
that as part of the ICR documentation referred to below, by July 21, 1998: (i) Bihar, J&K, and
Punjab would provide complete information on the status of all remaining constructions; (ii)
all States, except Gujarat, wouldfinalize identification of defects and undertake rectification
in the completed works; and (iii) by July 31, 1998, MOHFW would confirm the approved cost
for additional activities undertaken in Haryana. Additional comments on the status of civil
works in the Project States are noted in the text on individual States and detailed in Annex 3 (A-
D).
11.   Procurement. It was agreed that the Project States would update the inventory of all
procurement done for civil works, equipment, vehicles, supplies, and consultants, indicating
the costs involved and the procurement methods followed, such as force accounts, national
shopping, and sole source. The States would also provide IDA with the final lists of
distribution of vehicles and major items of equipment to various facilities. These tasks are to
be completed by July 21, 1998, in conjunction with the documentation for the ICR.
12.   End-Line Survey (ELS). The Mission participated in the ELS workshop organized by
NIHFW on June 9 and 10, 1998. Project States would submit to NIHFW, any outstanding
documentation requests by June 30, 1998, enabling NIHFW to finalize the ELS report by July
31, 1998. Related consultant reports on the NIHFW and the centrally administered
components of IEC and NGO activities would also need to be completed by July 31, 1998.
(See: Annex 1B for detailed benchmarks and Annex 4B for Central components guidelines).
Observations emerging from the ELS workshop reflect the following early insights from the
Project implementation process: (i) delayed implementation as a result of problems of flow of
funds, high tum-over of staff (four States had five or more Project Directors in six years, some of
them holding additional charge of other positions), and slow decision making at the State level;



Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
(ii) lack of sufficient monitoring and follow-up from GOI; and (iii) problem of timely clearance
of procurement matters from IDA, partly related to inadequate familiarity of the Project Officials
with IDA procurement guidelines. Notwithstanding such difficulties, a good infrastructure has
been developed for quality training at the State, regional and district levels. Extensive
augmentation of physical infrastructure has also been supported by the Project towards
expansion of service delivery capacity. The challenge remains to ensure sustainability of these
efforts, and maintenance and utilization of these facilities beyond the Project period. The GOI
and the Project States will need to address these critical areas in their reports for the ICR,
benchmarks for which are indicated below.
13.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Mission briefed GOI and State
governments about the ICR to be prepared by IDA within six months from the date of closing of
the Project. The Report will assess the achievement of development objectives and glean
important lessons learnt during the process of implementation, including factors facilitating or
impeding timely and full implementation. The ICR will contain a brief assessment of the
implementation experience by GOI. Towards this end, it was agreed that MOHFW willforward
a ten page report on the Project by August 15, 1998. This will be based on short (ten-page)
reports by Project States to be submitted by July 21, 1998, ELS findings and other relevant
information. IDA expects to prepare the draft ICR by September 15; the revised draft by
October 15; and the final ICR by November 15, 1998. Benchmarks for ICR preparation are
noted in Annex lB and a suggested outline of key points to be covered is given in Annex 4A.
The Mission noted the MOHFW request to hold an ICR workshop so as to share and disseminate
lessons learnt in the implementation process. Subject to confirmation by IDA management, the
Mission agreed to follow up on the arrangements for the workshop to be held around the end
of September, 1998.
C. KEY IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES: STATE SPECIFIC
All States
14.   Rationalization of the training framework has been a key goal of the Project, with
SIHFWs (RIHFWs in J&K) as apex institutions of the training networks in the States. The
sustainability of accomplishments beyond the Project period remains a major concem. In this
respect, the States wouldfurnish by July 21, 1998 (as part of ICR documentation noted above),
a plan for sustainability of the structure and approach, staffing (with the necessary specialized
skill mix) and operational arrangements for training. The States would also make adequate
resources available for: (i) identification and rectification of defects and provision of utilities for
the physical infrastructure, (ii) maintenance of buildings and equipment; and (iii) staff salaries
and other training related expenses. It was agreed that the States would explore with the
MOHFW/NIHFW, support available to them through the RCH Project and other sources. The
States would also provide to IDA, audited statements of accounts for FY 1997-98 by December
31, 1998 andfor the relevant period ofFY1998-99 by March 31, 1998. Specific guidelines in
this respect would be confirmed by PDAT Unit of the Bank's New Delhi Office.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
Bihar
15.   Major activities envisaged under the Project are expected to be completed by the closing
date. Nonetheless, the Mission was concerned that the recurrent problem offundflow (Rs. 10
crore pending release by the State Departrnent of Finance) had seriously decelerated Project
implementation in recent months -- especially procurement of ANM kits, vehicles, and certain
training and operational activities -- and needs immediate resolution. The long awaited
confirmation of the construction status of 140 HSCs and 37 OTs, being executed through the
District Magistrates, is calledfor urgently so as to complete the documentation on civil works
and related expenditures. The Mission noted persistent weakness in expenditure reporting,
resulting in huge backlogs in reimbursement claims pending with GOI and IDA. It was agreed
that GOB would urgently meet the pending audit objections for FY1995-96 accounts and
expedite SOE reconciliation for FY 1997-98, with assistance from specialized consultants for
the task. While appreciating the appointment of eight core staff for SIHFW during the field
visit, the Mission urged GOB to expedite confirmation of the autonomous status of the
SIHFW, making it fully operational with the additional staff and resources. It was also
agreed that MOHFW would confirm to IDA by July 31, 1998, the final reallocation offunds
for Bihar, covering the total costs incurred for Project activities.
Gujarat
16.   The Mission appreciates the completion of the State's original Project goals about a year
ago as well the timely completion of new activities undertaken with the reallocation of Rs. 10
crore by MOHFW in February 1997. Gujarat has also proved to be the lead State in setting up a
strong field based training system, and has identified and initiated rectification of defects in
physical infrastructure constructed under the Project -- efforts that other States need to emulate.
The only major outstanding issue has been the SOE suspension since May 12, 1998 in
connection with the FY 1995-96 audit that needs to be resolved urgently.
Haryana
17.   Project implementation was virtually completed about a year ago and additional
construction activities are under way with new fumds reallocated by MOHFW in February 1997.
The Mission received a request from GOH for condoning requirements of prior review of
architectural designs and compliance to the cost escalation clause in the bidding document
relating to certain physical facilities being constructed with these additional funds. Subject to
confinnation by MOHFW on the approval of these undertakings, the Mission reviewed and
cleared the new designs and provided the waivers requested as a special case. It was agreed that
MOHFW would confirm the approvalfor these additional activities, along with the costs
involved, by July 31, 1998. It was also agreed that GOH would confirm by July 21, 1998, the
finalphysicalprogress on the new infrastructure construction currently in progress as well as
the final Project expenditures.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
Jammu and Kashmir
18.   Considerable progress in Project implementation was noted since the last mission.
However, the long-standing problem of fund flow makes the prospect of completion of the
ongoing civil works and the planned procurement of equipment and vehicles unlikely. An
amount of Rs. 15.76 crore was still being held by the State Department of Finance during the
Project's last fortnight, resulting in huge pending bills and impeding ongoing work. The
suspension of the SOE disbursement since May 12, 1998 due to noncompliance with the audit
requirement of FY 1996-97 is another major issue. The Mission is also concerned at the lack of
documentation on the exact status of the remaining 40 percent of the physical facilities that are
under construction by PWD and REW. The Project needs to have the procurement process
reviewed by PDAT in order to ensure compliance with IDA guidelines. It was noted that the full
complement of the staff for the RIHFWs at Jammu and Srinagar is not yet decided upon, and that
many vehicles procured out of the Project are not provided to most of the training institutions. In
particular, the Mission calls for immediate release of the funds; urgent steps for withdrawal of
SOE suspension; confirmation on the status of the physical construction by July 21, 1998;
urgent IDA review of the ongoing procurement process; and confirmation of staffing and
related arrangements for RIHFWs and other training institutions by July 21, 1998.
Punjab
19.   Except for the SIIFW, Punjab materially accomplished full Project implementation
about a year ago. The Mission noted that the completion of this remaining major task as well as
fresh activities taken up subsequent to additional allocation of fimds by MOHFW in February
1997 remain severely constrained by insufficient release of funds to the Project by the State
Department of Finance (Rs. 18 crore still pending). The Mission calls for confirmation on
immediate action on release offunds to facilitate completion of SIHFW construction and
allow pendingprocurement before June 30, 1998. It was also agreed that MOHFWwould
confirm to IDA by July 31, 1998 the amount offunds finally approvedfor new activities with
resources additionally allocated to the State.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 10
VI1 Family Welfare Training and System Development Population Project
Credit No. 2133 - IN
Borrower's Evaluation
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    Area projects are being implemented since 1972 with financial assistance from World
Bank and other donor agencies, with the objectives of reducing Maternal and Child Mortality
and morbidity and Birth rate. These objectives were sought to be achieved by improving the
quality and availability of Health and Family Welfare services through strengthening of the
service delivery infrastructure and improving the skill of the medical and para-medical personnel
through better training and programme management. India Population Project (IPP) -VI and
IPP-VII were the first projects which deviated from the earlier area project approach of
implementation in certain selected districts/urban areas and focussed on Human Resource
Development activities on State-wise basis.
2.   IPP-VII project was initially sanctioned for five years with effect from 02.11.1990 in five
States namely Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu &Kashmir and Punjab with the objectives of
strengthening the Human Resource Development Capacity of the Health & Family Welfare
System and to create cadres of adequately trained manpower and to strengthen the infrastructure
so as to bring overall improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of Family Welfare
Services. The pattern of assistance was a soft loan from the World Bank to Government of India
and Grants-in-aid to the State Governments by Government of India. The Project was extended
upto 30.06.1998 with permission to file claims on eligible expenditure incurred up 30.06.1998 by
331st October, 1998.
3.    The original committed project outlay at the time of approval of the project in November,
1990 was 67.1 SDR million which was reduced to 49.5 SDR million after canceling 17.6 SDR
million for structural adjustments in 1991. The original total outlay of the project sanctioned by
Government of India in November, 1990 was Rs.335.72 crores - Bihar Rs.88.18 crores, Gujarat
Rs.43.90 crores, Haryana Rs.42.42 crores, J&K Rs.51.54 crores and Punjab Rs.48.66 crores.
'NHFW' and 'Central Component' comprising IEC, Social marketing and NGOs' were
earmarked Rs.1.48 crores and Rs.59.54 crores respectively. After reviewing the physical and
financial performance of the Project States during the mid term review in 1996, the original
allocation of Bihar at Rs.88.18 crores was reduced by Rs.29.80 crores. This amount of Rs.29.80
crores was distributed to the better performing implementing States viz. Gujarat-Rs. 10.00
Crores, Haryana-Rs.9.9 crores and Punjab-Rs.9.9 crores. To adjust the expenditure overflow at
the end of the project, the World Bank allowed reimbursement from RCH funds to the tune of
US $ 11.4 million.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 10
4.    Main Goals and Objectives of the Project
GOAL
The major goal of the project was to support the National Family Welfare Programme by
assisting Government of India and participating States in achieving improved quality,
efficiency and effectiveness through Family Welfare Programme of appropriate Family
Planning services to men and women and MCH services to pregnant women, mother and
young children.
OBJECTIVES:-
To achieve these goals, the following main objectives were envisaged:-
i) Expanding the supply of Family Welfare Services
ii) Increasing the Demand for Family Welfare Services
-        Social marketing of contraceptives
Support to Private Voluntary Organizations (POVs)
Information, Education and communication (IEC)
iii) Improving the quality of Family Welfare Services
iv) Rationalization of the Training Infrastructure
v) Improving the Management and operation of Family Welfare Programme
5.    Financial Achievement
As on 3 1st October, 1998, the Project reported an expenditure of Rs.322.38 crores
(95.9%) against the total Project outlay of Rs.335.72 crores - Project States Rs.249.51 Crores
(90.7% of the total allocation of Rs.274.70 crores earmarked for States); AND CENTRALLY
SPONSORED COMPONENTS, Rs.72.05 crores (over 100 percent) and NIHW Rs.0.82 crores
(55.4% of the allocation of Rs.1.48 crores). Against the expenditure ofRs.322.38 crores, the
claim were filed for Rs.255.30 crores.
6.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Every implementing State constituted a Steering Committee under the chairmanship of
their Health & Family Welfare Secretary to monitor the progress of IPP-VII project and also to
clear the proposals and to issue the sanctions for budgetary items. These States also constituted
the Governing Body/Council under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary to review the progress
of activities of IPP-VII and to take policy decisions and to issue guidelines from time to time.
Secretary (FW) of these States also reviewed the project activities independently from time to
time.
In the Ministry of Health & F.W., the monitoring was done through monthly feedback
reports, review meetings taken by Joint Secretary from time to time and reviews taken by the
Ministry in collaboration with the IDA mission. NIHFW also monitored the Project activities
with particular emphasis on training through desk monitoring and field visits. The project was



Appendix B
Page 3 of 10
evaluated through End line Survey reports, & Central components evaluatory report submitted
by Consultant appointed by NIHFW and evaluatory reports on NIHFW by Consultants appointed
by GOI.
7.    Project Sustainability
All the five implementing States have ensured to sustain the technical staff in the
Training Institutions, maintenance and utilization of the buildings after completion of the project
by making provision of sufficient funds in States' Five Year/Annual Plan budgets.
8.    Achievements & Shortfalls:
i)    Inspite of slow start and weak and tardy performance in early years, the overall
objectives of the project were achieved by all the five implementing States with varying
degree of achievements. This has been possible due to timely interventions, intensified
monitoring, reappropriation and redistribution of funds, more flexibility and vigorous
efforts made by the States, MOHFW and the World Bank particularly in the second phase
of the implementation.
ii)    All the implementing States constituted/established (i) Administrative
Cells/Units; (ii) Governing Board/Council; (iii) Steering Committee; (iv) Personal
Management Information System (PMIS) and (v) Management Information & Evaluation
system (MIES).
iii)    Under civil works for upgrading of service delivery facilities, 2571 buildings of
sub-centers against the target of 2951, 75 ISM dispensaries against the target of 100, 285
PHCs upgraded against the target of 359 and 8 Logistic Stores against the target of 12
were completed. Most of the rest of the buildings are at final stages of completion. The
State-wise details are as under:-
UPGRADING OF SERVICE DELIVERY FACILITIES
Service     Bihar      Gujarat      Haryana      Jammu &  Punjab    Total
Delivery                                         Kashmir
P C            C    P P            C   P (         C   P  C
Sub-Centers    1000 750  600  684    451   443   500   382  400 400   2951  2571
ISM Dispensary  ---  --  ---  ---   --           100   75              100  75
Upgraded PHCs  144  81   3    3     50   47    85   57  100 100   359  285
Logistic Stores  ---  ---  ---  ---  12   8      ---   -    --         12   8
Total        1144 831  603  687    513   498   685   514  500 500   3445  3039
Note: P=Planned C=Completed
In addition to above, the other major civil works inter-alia included: (i) 10 residences for
DTOs - (at final stage of construction) in Haryana; (ii) 66 operation theaters in Bihar; (iii) 3 PP
units in Gujarat; (iv) 100 LHV quarters in Punjab; and (v) 73 operation theaters (57 completed



Appendix B
Page 4 of 10
and 16 at final stage of construction) & 2 SHTO workshops one each in Jammu & Kashmir
completed.
iv)    The Project established 4 SIHFW/RIHFW against the target of 6 (RIHFW in
Kashmir is near completion while SIHFW in Punjab is about half complete); 11 Regional
Training Centers against the target of 40, 90 DTT Centers against the target of 93; 63
ANMT facilities against the target of 71, 10 MPW (MIF) Training facilities against the
target of 12, 1 HA Training School, 1 H&FW Training School. The State-wide details
are as under. The other Training facilities established inter-alia included 55 PHC
Training Annex, 80 expansion of training facilities.
NUlMBER OF TRAINING FACILITIES ESTABLISHED
Training        Bihar      Gujarat      Haryana      Jammu &    Punjab        Total
Facility                                             Kashmir
P . P  C  P C                            C    P C   P C
SIHFW/RIHFW*    I      1  1      1      1   1        2    1        1          6   4
RTC M/F         14    11                                                      1 4 -  14
DTT Centers     39    39  16   16    17  15          9    8        12   12   93  90
ANMT facilities  22    21  32   32      2   2        15   8                   71  63
MPW (Male &      -        l     _       5   3                      7    7     12  10
Female) Training
Facilities
HA Training School   I_         I-                                 1 
H& FW Training                                                         I        --   --   - --   --
School
Other:
PHC Training Annex  15    15  -                                    40   40   55  55
Exp. Of Training            10   72     1   8                                 11  80
facilities   _      _
Total           91    87  59   121   26  29          26   17      62   61    26  315
4
Note: P=Planned C=Completed
In addition, the Project also constructed 66 staff quarters in SIHFW/DTT in Gujarat; 1
Hostel for RIHFWTC in Rohtak, (at the final stages of completion) 1 conference hall for Rohtak
training center (completed), 50 community education cum demonstration centers (47 completed
and 3 under construction) in Haryana.
The project considerably achieved in improving the staff competency by improving their
clinical and counseling skill of service delivery staff in all the five implementing States. This
was achieved by regular training in training institutions, upgrading the skills of trainers, revising
and upgrading training curriculum, teaching method by strategic planning and management of
Human Resources Development for Family Welfare programme. Against the target of 1.38
lakhs, 2.46 lakhs key personnel of different categories were trained. The State-wise details are
stated in the following table:-



Appendix B
Page 5 of 10
Category         Bihar         Gujarat       Harayana        Jahmiu &        Punjab          Total
P    C   P C   P  [C    P  C                                  P  IC   P   lC
Key Trainers           474    256    242    100    212                       1 30   162   486    1090
Medical Officers   4704    3884   2050   2034    1284   1234    1396   1176  9100   11220  18534   19548
Supervisors   2980    2051   11880  11469  2661   3364    110   105         3147   7019   20778   24008
MPW-Female    12776   10673  7950   7661    7798   6702    2482   3717       6600   15777  37606   44530
MPW-Male      6354    4776   5639   4896   2544   1549                      5900   11978  20437   23199
ISM practitioners             795    762    498    498    3969   1263                     5262   2523
Non-Health                           78358   10000  10444   9032   7075      15000  23500  34032   119377
Functionaries
Members of Rural                                                            1000   12310  1000    12310
Women's Groups
TOTAL         26814   21858  28570  105422  24885  24003   16989  13336    40877  81966  138135  246585
Note: P=Planned C=Completed
v)     NIHFW  assisted States in setting up of HMD cells with a strong MIES and PMIS,
development of SIHFW, faculty selection, administrative structures, development of
curriculum, preparation of annual plan for training, learning material besides conducting
courses, workshops and preparation of various types of training/curriculum materials.
NIHFW also monitored the project activities with broad emphasis on training through
desk monitoring and field visits. The Endline evaluation was conducted by NIHFW
through consultants.
vi)     The project substantially achieved its institutional development and thus
established foundation for reproductive and child health project.
vii)    The Project played a vital role in generating demand under Social Marketing of
Contraceptives and provided greater support to Voluntary Organizations and I.E.C. It
improved contraceptives prevalence by popularizing use of Condoms, Oral Pills and
ensured their easy availability at retail outlets. This project also achieved higher
utilization of MCH services and helped in increasing demand for FW services which was
one of the main objectives.
9.  IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
The infrastructure constructed under the project has improved accessibility of services
preferably in rural areas. The comprehensive infrastructure of Training Institutions have
improved the clinical and counseling skills which have further accelerated the inter-personal
communication to enhance the project impact among women groups in panchayat, youth groups
and Indian system of Medicines and private allopathic practitioners.
The project assisted the States to develop and organize properly their HRDC, PMIS and
MIES which were earlier not attained properly, to mobilize and coordinate the health
functionaries.



Appendix B
Page 6 of 10
The project also contributed to a great extent to help the States in strengthening their
community involvement and participation, stimulating greater demand for Family Welfare
Services through better utilization of private Voluntary Organizations and IEC. This resulted in
reducing Crude Birth Rate (CBR) and Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) in all the five Implementing
States. The details are as under:-
STATE           CBR                   IMR
1990        1997      1990       1997
BIHAR           32.9        31.7      75.0       71.0
HARYANA         31.9        28.3      69.0       68.0
GUJARAT         29.6        25.6      72.0       62.0
J&K             31.4        -         70.0       -
PUNJAB          27.6        23.4      61.0       51.0
10.   MAJOR FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
i)    The project had a slow start up and slow pace of implementation during the first
four years. Contributory factors inter-alia included (a) delays in land acquisition; (b)
delays in financial sanctions due to cumbersome State approval procedures; (c)
unfamiliarity with World Bank procedure regarding procurement, submission of claims,
timely audit; (d) frequent transfers of project director; (e) delay in appointing the critical
administrative and technical staff; (f) low priority by States to the project in the initial
phase; (g) lack of professional approach and shortage of skilled man-power; (h) delay in
construction work; (i) ban on creation of new posts by the State Governments etc.
ii)    District officers did not depute the adequate number of staff for training. In some
cases the staff trained under the project was transferred to departments not concerned
with the project activities.
iii)  In some places ANMs did not utilize the accommodation provided to them in the
sub-centers due to lack of basic amenities such as water, electricity and inconvenient
location. Personal problems and security reasons also restrained many of the ANMs in
utilizing such accommodation.
iv)   The coverage and quality of the training got adversely affected due to factors such
as (a) not deputing the adequate number of staff for training (b) less incentives,
honorarium given to trainee compared to other programs (c) shortage of teaching/
learning material (d) low priority given to training (e) talented persons not attracted due
to non-autonomous status to SIHFWs (f) weak co-ordination between Project Director
and Director SIBFW (g) less mobility in training programs due to non-availability of
vehicles etc. etc.



Appendix B
Page 7 of 10
v)    The mid-term review was conducted after 6 years of implementation which left
very little time with states to complete additional activities out of additional funds.
vi)   The other major constraints inter-alia included the following:-
(a)   In many cases the charge of the Project Director was given to another
official already holding another post due to which due attention could not be paid
in the implementation of the project.
(b)   In certain cases, training institutes were used for activities other than
training.
(c)   Very few research proposals undertaken by the States despite courses and
workshops on research methodology conducted by States.
(d)   Less attention paid to involvement of non-governmental sector in the
project implementation process.
(e)   Despite release of advance money by the GOI the states took a long time
in release of funds to the project authorities. This became a very dominant factor
in slow implementation of the project.
(f)    Late release of 10% state share by the State Finance Department.
(g)   Political conditions and militant activities in the valley of Kashmir
affected adversely the overall implementation in J&K particularly the civil works
in remote areas.
(h)   Provisions of vehicles on replacement basis resulted in non-availability of
vehicles for the institutions envisaged.
11.   LESSONS LEARNT
From IPP-VII project, a few lessons were learnt which could be utilized for bringing
improvements in the implementation of other on-going and future projects. Important ones are
as under:-
i)    In the beginning of the project itself, administrative machinery in the
Implementing States should be geared up and proper coordination developed among
various administrative wings so as to avoid delay in issuing necessary sanction orders for
the smooth flow of funds. States could consider constituting State level societies to
overcome this problem.
ii)    Proper care should be taken in the selection of sites for construction of sub-
centers with provisions of necessary accommodation having minimum basic amenities



Appendix B
Page 8 of 10
such as electricity, water, etc. so as to enable ANMs and other para-medical staff to stay
there.
iii)   There should be enough provision for engaging Experts/Consultants/Professionals
from outside on contract basis. This is so because many a times, the staff recruited on
deputation and on transfer basis from other Departments, are not the most suitable.
iv)   The World Bank should examine the possibilities for simplifying the procedures
for Civil Works, procurement of Equipment, Drugs, etc.
v)    District Officers should take advance action for deputing the adequate number of
staff(using PMIS) having requisite knowledge keeping in view their present and future
job requirements for various training programs under the project;
vi)   States should encourage inter-State visits, seminars and workshops relevant to the
projects so as to have the staff gain experience of the projects in other States/Areas;
vii)  The mid-term review should be conducted during the mid way so as to enable
States to complete new activities within the project period.
viii)  Personnel having aptitude to work in training institutions and trained manpower
should be preferred in training organizations. If possible there should be a separate cadre
for these people.
ix)   To avoid delays more financial powers should be delegated to Project Directors
and a Sub Committee to be formed for approving items upto a certain limit.
x)    Purchases/procurement should be allowed from State Government approved
agencies at DGS&D approved rates without calling for tender in order to avoid delays.
xi)   SIHFW should be given autonomous status so as to attract talented people having
the right perspective in training and to develop its functional linkages with RTC/DTC for
better planning and monitoring.
xii)   During project implementation, soft components like HRD through PMIS and
HMIS, monitoring system, involvement of private practitioners and practitioners of
ISM&H, utilization of IEC and NGOs which were essential for improvement in
managerial and operating aspects, generating the demand and improving the efficiency
and effectiveness of services received relatively less attention in the implementation of
project while expensive hardware components like civil work, procurement etc. were
given higher weightage
xiii)  Special arrangement/provision should be made at Accountant Generals level for
timely auditing of the Project expenditure so as to enable filing of Reimbursement claim
to GOI/World Bank in time.



Appendix B
Page 9 of 10
xiv)  The State Governments should identify (a) Agency for taking up the Project, (b)
Future strategy, (c) Resources, (d) Deployment of manpower for taking up of moveable
and immovable assets well in advance before the completion of project.
xv)   Purchasing of vehicle on replacement basis have not yielded the desired results.
The vehicles purchased under the project have reached to the places/officers where from
the old one were received. New vehicles were not made available to the
facilities/institutes for which they were envisaged. Vehicles were also not used for
mobilization of activities/staff and for referral cases for want of post of drivers in the
project. An alternative mechanism should be explored to ensure availability of vehicles
in institutions envisaged.
xvi)  Monitoring and evaluation should be done more frequently and should not be
confined to the state and district level, and for civil work and equipment. The monitoring
and evaluation should be comprehensive and more coherent and decentralized stressing
on the qualitative aspects along with the quantitative.
xvii) Vacancy should be filled up in time by creating the post and appointing persons as
per job requirement and not on transfer basis. This would help sustainability of the
project after the completion of the project.
12.   FUTURE PLANNING
It is quite often observed that poor planning lead to bad results. Therefore, to avoid the
problem of coordination and delays due to improper planning, such a comprehensive project with
multi objectives should be implemented in phased manner - (i) Preparatory Planning Phase and
(ii) Implementation Phase. Under preparatory phase, the pre-construction activities such as
appointment of administrative and technical staff and other specialists like Architects, Engineers,
procurement and medical specialists should be appointed. Besides this, the land acquisition, site
selection, establishment of MIES and PMIS and documentary work like sanctions, drawings,
maps etc. should be accomplished within a short period. In the Implementation phase, the
hardware components like construction, procurement and supply and training should be
completed. The final phase should focus on Institutional Operationalisation, rectifications,
evaluation, assessing impact of the project and ensuring sustainability after completion of the
project period.
i)    Expansion and increase of demand of Family Welfare Services can be improved
and accelerated if we are successful in making ANM occupy the residence in sub-centers.
This task can be achieved if sub-centers are constructed near the residential areas and
ANMs are appointed on contract basis and paid on their performance. User's
participatory involvement and participation of Panchayats in selection of sites for
building, sub-center is very essential.
ii)   Software components like training, IEC and NGOs which are very essential for
meeting the objectives of the project should be given more weightage.



Appendix B
Page 10 of 10
iii)   Alternative possibilities of release of fimds in the form of personal ledger account
PLA/DD in favor of Project Director as being done in case of DRDA's, District
panchayats and training institutes to ensure timely receipt of funds by the Project
authorities should be explored. In this connection, one could consider releasing of funds
through a society strictly linked with performance.
iv)   There should be provisions for new vehicles along with the post of drivers for
new institutes as against on replacement basis for improving mobility and expanding
services.
v)    Monitoring by Government of India through field visits should be an integral part
of the project for which there should a separate cell in the Ministry.
vi)   In the States there are set procedures for purchases in Government. Some
approved corporations and agencies are identified from where State Departments can
directly purchase without going through the procedure of inviting tender. There are
organizations like CSPO (Central Stores Purchase Organizations) and CMSO (Central
Medical Stores Organization) headed by senior officers of the rank of secretaries. They
oversee the purchase of all medicines for the State and vehicles, machineries and
equipment by inviting tenders, evaluation of bids and take decisions for the whole State
and enter into annual rate contracts for State offices. It is suggested that Project
authorities should be allowed to follow this procedure instead of separately following
IDA's instructions in matter of procurement.
vii)   The State Governments should intimate the project authorities about the resource,
strategies for running project in future, deployment staff on pennanent basis in the
institutions created and taking over of the project well before the completion of the
project.
viii)  The Bank's procedures should be simplified and workshops/seminars should be
conducted in the beginning of the project to make project officials conversant with these
procedures.
ix)   The States where the implementation was affected due to some unforeseen
reasons, provisions should be made available to complete important unfinished
activities/infrastructure from the other programs.
x)    The release of money should be in a phased manner and strictly linked with
performance instead of releasing money in advance.
M:/population/ipp7/icr/icr-febO 1-edited.doc



