FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 141a-KE
APPRAISAL OF THE
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KENYA
July 25, 1973
Regional Projects -Department
East8rn Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS i
Currency Unit  =  Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
K Sh 1         =  US$0.14
US$1.00        =  K Sh 7.14
K Sh 1,000     =  US$140
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)               -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kn2)  =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
= 0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EAHC    -    East African Harbours Corporation
EARC    -    East African Railways Corporation
ILO     -     International Labor Office
mow     -    Ministry of Works
MPC     -    Ministry of Power and Communications
NYS     -    National Youth Service
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
vpd     -    vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
FISCAL YFAR
July 1 - June 30
lJ At the time of loan negotiations in May 1973.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......         ......................    i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION .......................................               1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...............................               3
A.   Economic Setting ..............................               3
B.   The Transport System ..................       ........        3
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ....          .........    4
3.   HIGHWAYS         ................................                  6
A.   The Road Network ...............................              6
B.   Traffic Growth and Characteristics ............               6
C.   Administration ......        .........................        7
D.   Maintenance .......        ..........................         7
E.   Planning and Financing .....        .................         8
F.   Road User Charges ....... .......................             9
G.   Engineering .......        ..........................         9
H.   Construction .......        ...........................       9
4. THE PROJECT ..................   10
A.   Description ...................................              10
B.   Execution .....................................              14
C.   Cost Estimates ......         ..........................     16
D.  Financing and Disbursements                .       .          17
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ......         ..........................     18
A.   General .................... ...................             18
B.   The Nairobi-International Airport Road ........             18
C.   Roads Serving Agricultural Areas .          .............    19
D.   Mumias Sugar Roads ............ ..         ..............    20
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............              21
This report was prepared by Messrs. W.H. Cooke (Engineer), I.E. Smith
(Economist) and D.A. Ngangmuta (Economist), and Miss J. Murphy
(Editor).






TABLES:   1 -  Road Network
2 - Estimated Number of Motor Vehicles
3 - Central Government Revenues from Road Users
4 - Central Government Expenditures on Roads
5 - Highway Design Standards adopted by the MOW
6 - Details of Construction under Project
7 - Equipment for Construction of Access Tracks
8 - Project Cost Estimates
9 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX:    Estimation of Economic Benefits
Table A-1 - Traffic Forecasts
Table A-2 - Economic Benefits
MAPS:     1 -  Kenya:  Main Highway Network (IBRD-10408R)
2 - Kenya: Western Area (IBRD-10409R)
3 - Kenya: Central Area (IBRD-10410R)
4 - Kenya: Eastern Area (IBRD-10411)
5 - Kenya: Nairobi International Airport Road
(IBRD-10366)
6 - Kenya: Mumias Sugar Roads (IBRD-10367)






KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIFTH HIGHW4AY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.         Kenya's economic growth in recent years has placed a heavy demand
on the transport sector, particularly on the road network. Agriculture, which
accounts for a third of the gross domestic product, and tourism, which now
earns more foreign exchange than any single export commodity, require a re-
liable and efficient system of all weather roads. Substantial investment,
assisted by eight Bank Group loans and credits, has been directed toward the
improvement and extension of roads in the principal agricultural and tourist
areas, but some parts of the system are still inadequate for current and
foreseeable transport demand. In the proposed project the emphasis is placed
on the improvement of roads serving agricultural areas in accordance with the
Government's highway development policy expressed in the draft 1974/5-1978/9
Development Plan. These improvements should yield substantial reductions in
vehicle operating costs and encourage increased agricultural production in
areas where access is, at present, limited.
ii.        A major effort to improve the highway system began in 1959, with
the Government generally following a sound policy of stage construction,
designing roads which were adequate for traffic needs over the next few years
and which allowed for successive strengthening and improvement as traffic
volumes increased. For several years, this policy was frustrated by the lax
enforcement of weight restrictions which, with the progressive increase in
vehicle size, resulted in axle loadings in excess of road design standards
and the consequent failure of important sections of certain trunk roads.
The principal road from Mombasa through Nairobi to the Uganda border was a
notable example. Since 1969, the enforcement of road transport regulations
has improved, most of the trunk road system has been brought up to a satis-
factory standard, and measures have been adopted to achieve a rational dis-
tribution of traffic between road and rail. In addition, a Bank Group
assisted highway maintenance project is at present being implemented which
should arrest the deterioration of the highway system resulting from neglect
and inadequate maintenance in the past.
iii.       The present project includes approximately 14 km of trunk road
upgrading to dual carriageway standard between Nairobi and its International
Airport, improvement or construction of 315 km of roads serving rich agricul-
tural areas in the central and western regions of the country, and of 388 km
of distribution and access roads associated with the Mumias Sugar Scheme.
Consultants will be employed to supervise construction of the works. Some
of the project roads are continuations of rural road development programs
begun under earlier Bank Group projects.



- il -
iv.        The cost of the project is estimated at about US$44 milllon equiv-
alent. The Government has requested a loan from the Bank to finance the
foreign exchange component estimated at about US$29 million, or 66% of the
total cost, Estimated economic returns on the individual project items range
from 14% to 36% yielding an average return on the project as a whole of 20%.
v .        Major civil works under the project will be executed by contracts
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. The only exception is construction of 325 km of low-grade access
tracks and collection roads connected with the Mumias Sugar Scheme which,
because of their urgency and of the close relationship between their placement
and the layout of partipating farms, have been included in the contract with
the managing agents of the Sugar Scheme. The works have already begun, super-
vised by consultants, and will be financed retroactively, up to an amount of,
US$340,000, about half of which is for imported equipment procured locally.
vi.        Execution of earlier road projects has been satisfactory.  They
have brought a wide range of benefits to agriculture, tourism and the general
economy.
vii.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for a loan of US$29.0
million equivalent to the Government of Kenya.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The project will be the Bank Group's ninth lending operation in
Kenya for road development. Past projects concerned wholly or in part with
roads are the following:
Amount                          Approximate    Status
Year   Loan/Credit    (US$ million)       Purpose         Length (km) (% complete)
1960   Loan 256-KE         5.6      Agricultural develop-
ment including feeder
road construction        910         100%7
1964   Credit 70-KE        4.5      Trunk road engineering,
improvement and con-
struction                315         100%O
1965    Credit 77-KE        3.0      Tea road improvement  1,440           100%
.1967    Credit 104-KE      5.3      Sugar road engineering
and construction         820         100%
1968    Credit 120-KE      10.7      a) Trunk road recon-        )
struction            460)         100%
b) Feeder road engi-        )
neering              425)
1969    Loan 639-KE        23.5      a) Trunk and feeder road   )
reconstruction        605)
b) Sugar road construc-    )
tion                 355)          90%
c) Road improvement in      )
settlement areas      590)
d) Study of MOW organi-    )
zation                - )
1970   Credit 224-KE      12.6       Strengthening and im-
provement of highway
maintenance                           55%



-2-
1972    Credit 276-KE       22.0/    a) Trunk and feeder            )
road reconstruction 230)
b) Tea road construc-         )
tion                 1,000)
c) Road improvement in        )           15%
settlement areas       430)
d) Installation of two        )
weighing stations         )
Execution of work under these projects and the performance of the Ministry of
Works (MOW) as executing agency have been satisfactory.
1.02        The eight road projects financed by the Bank Group in Kenya over
the past decade have brought a wide range of benefits to agriculture, tourism
and the general economy.  Traffic growth has generally exceeded forecasts,
yielding benefits higher than those originally anticipated. The projects
included the upgrading of all classes of roads throughout the country, thus
the benefits of the Bank Group road operations have been widely dispersed
throughout the economy.  The agricultural sector has been.a prime beneficiary.
For example, Credit 77-KE for tea road improvement provided the infrastructure
that not only facilitated the execution of the smallholder tea scheme financed
under Credit 64-KE, but stimulated increased agricultural production of a
wide range of crops in areas that were previously mostly forest. Similarly,
Credit 104-KE provided the road network needed to move sugar cane to the
factory and the refined product to market. IDA Credit 276-KE, together with
assistance from Sweden, was also agriculturally oriented; 75% of the expendi-
ture is for roads serving general agricultural, tea and settlement areas.
1,03       The Government has now requested the Bank to help finance a
project consisting of the construction, reconstruction or improvement of
717 km of roads of varying standards. The agricultural sector will continue
to be the main beneficiary, with about 85% of the loan being directed to the
construction or improvement of roads serving areas of high agricultural po-
tential.  The inclusion of one 14 km section of the Nairobi-Mombasa trunk
road complements past investments in this important route and in the Nairobi
International Airport wqhich it serves, the subject of a 1972 Bank loan (826-KE)
of US$29 million. The engineering studies for the various roads were carried
out by the consultants John Burrow and Partners, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners,
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners, Howard Humphreys and Sons and the MOW.
The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$44 million equivalent;
the Bank loan will cover the foreign exchange component, estimated at about
US$29 million or 66% of total costs.
1.04        Other Bank loans benefiting transport in Kenya include several
made to the East African Community for railways and ports, services which
are owned jointly by the three countries, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. These
1!    An additional US$6.0 million (approximate) is being provided by the
Swedish Government.



- 3 -
include two loans (110-EA, 1955 and 428-EA, 1965) totalling US$62 million to
the former East African Common Services Authority, two loans (638-EA, 1969 and
865-EA, 1972) totalling US$61.5 million to the East African Harbours Corpora-
tion (EAHC) and one loan (674-EA, 1970) of US$42.4 million to the East African
Railways Corporation (EARC).
1.05       This report is based on data provided by the MOW Planning Unit in
support of the Government's loan application, the reports of their consultants,
and the findings of a mission comprising Messrs. W.H. Cooke (Engineer),
I.E. Smith (Economist) and D.A. Ngangmuta (Economist) which visited the
country in September 1972. The report was edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    Economic Setting
2.01       The Republic of Kenya (Map 1) covers an area of 583,000 km2 which
is about the same size as France. It lies on the equator, but variations
in altitude provide a wide range of climatic conditions often rendering
construction and road maintenance difficult. More than half the country, in
the north and east, is arid and sparsely populated with few transport links.
The most attractive areas for settlement are along the coast and in the
highlands in the southwest between Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria, where over
half the total population of twelve million lives in one-fifth of the country's
total area. This pattern of settlement is reflected in the transport network,
with the main rail line and trunk road system and a subsidiary system of
branch lines and secondary and minor roads serving these areas.
2.02       The economy is largely based-on agriculture, which provides about
32% of the gross domestic product, with subsistence farming contributing
nearly 60% of agricultural value added. Coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum, meat
and other agricultural products provide about three-quarters of total exports
to countries outside the East African Community. Tourism is of growing
importance, and since 1968, has earned more foreign exchange than any single
export commodity. Since independence in 1963, the number of tourists has
increased by more than 20% p.a., reaching 290,000 in 1971.
B.    The Transport System
2.03       Kenya is highly dependent on foreign trade.  The major port, Mombasa,
which is administered and operated by the EAHC, is used for the export of
primary products and for the import of essential consumer goods, fuel, equip-
ment and machinery. Mombasa also serves Uganda and Rwanda, and some parts
of northern Tanzania and eastern Zaire.
2.04       The heaviest concentration of inland transport facilities and traffic
is on the 1,000 km corridor from the port of Mombasa to Kenya's western border
with Uganda, passing through Nairobi and the populous southwestern area of



-4-
the country. The corridor is served by road, rail and air services. For im-
ports and exports through Mombasa, and indeed for other long distance bulk
movements, the railway is the most important carrier, providing the principal
outlet to the sea for both Kenya and Uganda as well as for Rwanda. The main
railway li-ne from Uganda to Mombasa, together with subsidiary lines feeding
into it, accounts for some 1,600 km of the total 5,650 km system of the EARC.
2.05       The country is served by a 47,000 km road network, detailed in
Chapter 3. While the network has been substantially upgraded over the last
decade, the continued growth of the economy, particularly in the agricultural
sector, will require increasing emphasis on the construction and improvement
of roads serving rural areas.
2.06       The East African Airways Corporation, which together with the EAHC
and EARC is owned jointly by the three countries which make up the East
African Community, operates international services to West Europe, West
Africa, the Middle and Far East, and to neighboring countries, as well as
internal services. Passenger traffic has increased by about I1% p.a. during
the past decade, but movements of both passengers and freight by air within
Kenya are still relatively insignificant. Twenty-two major airlines call at
Nairobi Airport, which is the principal international airport in East Africa;
it is being expanded to handle the rapidly growing traffic with Bank Group
assistance. The Government also plans to improve Mombasa airport to inter-
national standard.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2,07       Transport policy and coordination matters are complicated by the
fact that railways, harbors and airways are administered by separate Community
corporations as common services for the three governments, while highways
and the regulation of road transport remain the responsibility of individual
governments; there is no institution at the Community level for intermodal
coordination and planning. Within Kenya, the Ministry of Power and Communica-
tions (MPC) has the task of coordinating the plans and activities of the
national and Community transport entities, but effective coordination is
lacking. The MPC tends to confine its attention to 'Community' transport,
leaving 'national' transport i.e. highways to the MOW, which is responsible
for providing and maintaining the highway system but not for road transport
regulation which rests with MPC. Liaison between the two Ministries is poor.
The Government has recently expressed its intention to strengthen the role
of the MPC in matters of transport coordination within Kenya by recruiting
suitably qualified transport economists for the Ministry. This effort will
be supported by the Bank under the project (para. 4.16).
2,08       The Government also proposes to undertake a Road Transport Study
early in the next planning period to be executed jointly by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, the MOW and the MPC. It will provide data for and
analyze road transport policy within the broader context of national economic
planning, evaluate highway investment projects and propose other measures



- 5 -
for the economic efficiency of the road transport subsector. During nego-
tiations, the Government confirmed its intention to implement this study,
and agreement was reached on its scope and timing.
2.09       The difficulties of transport coordination have been most evident
in the area of road-rail competition. The development of the economy has
been heavily dependent on the railway and, from an early stage, a policy was
followed of encouraging agricultural production for export by means of a
differential rail tariff. The differential tariff was based on the value
rather than the transport cost of shipments, extending low rates to agri-
cultural produce and charging correspondingly higher rates for higher value
imported manufactures and materials. To protect this tariff structure
against the effects of road competition, strict quantitative and operational
restrictions were imposed on road transport. Nonetheless, improvements to
the highway system, the increasing efficiency of road transport and lax
enforcement of the regulations resulted in an increasing diversion of high
rated traffic from rail to road. Given the rigid rail tariff structure, a
pattern of distribution consequently emerged bearing little relationship to
comparative transport costs, and a continuing decline in the railway's
operating surplus focused the Community's attention on the problem.
2.10       The terms of the Third East African Railways Loan of 1970 provide
for the implementation by the EARC and the Kenya Government of several mea-
sures (identified under an earlier UNDP study) essential to efficient utiliza-
tion and development of East Africa's transport resources.  These are:
(a)  a revision of the existing rail tariff to relate it
more closely to the costs rather than the value
of rail service to shippers;
(b) the elimination, subsequent to the rail tariff
revisions, of regulations imposed on road transport
to protect the railway from road competition; and
(c) an assessment of the economic feasibility of selected
railway lines and services.
2.11       The rail tariff has been reviewed and a proposal for revising a
number of individual rates has been submitted to the Community for approval;
further revisions are expected to follow. The feasibility studies are being
carried out by consultants. The capacity of the main Mombasa-Nairobi railway
line is to be studied and the case for a pipeline to replace rail and road
transport of white oils over the same route has been examined by the Gov-
ernment and the Bank and has in principle been accepted.



-6-
3. IHIGHWAYS
A.    The Road Network (see Maps 2-4)
3.01        In terms of the MOW road classification, Kenya's 47,000 km highway
network comprised, in July 1972, over 23,000 km of trunk, primary and secondary
roads, 20,000 km of minor roads and 3,000 km of special purpose roads such
as those serving tourist, tea collection, and sugar areas (Table 1). This
classification in some cases reflects the projected economic role of the roads
rather than their present function, and many roads classified as trunk or
primary are low standard earth and gravel roads with small traffic volumes.
While the length of paved roads has tripled in the last decade, totalling
about 3,300 kmL in 1972, about 80% of the network still consists of earth
roads or tracks, and many of the gravel and earth roads serving key agricultu-
ral and tourist areas do not provide all weather service.
B.    Traffic Growth and Characteristics
3.02       Traffic varies from a few vehicles per day (vpd) on minor roads to
over 10,000 vpd on roads near to and radiating from Nairobi. On the network
as a whole, traffic grew at an estimated average annual rate of 5% throughout
the 1960's.  The heaviest growth has been sustained on the trunk roads which
account for about 70% of total vehicle kilometers but only about 12% of the
system in terms of length. Traffic data are collected through an official
census taken at 60 points established throughout the road system, and mechan-
ical traffic counts are taken regularly on the most important and 'neavily
trafficked roads. These have been supplemented by traffic data collected
for various studies and ad hoc counts for special purposes. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that adequate traffic data will continue to
be collected for sound planning purposes.
3.03       Over the past decade, the vehicle fleet has grown at an average
annual rate of about 5% (see Table 2). Vehicle fleet estimates cannot,
however, be regarded as wholly reliable (see Annex) and the following analysis
of fleet composition should be read with this in mind. In 1972, about 47% of
the 144,000 vehicles were estimated to be passenger cars and 33% pick-ups, vans
and buses. The number of trucks, which had remained fairly constant from 1960
to 1965, increased steadily over the 1966-1972 period and trucks now account
for about 12% of the vehicle fleet as compared with 10% in 1965, An increase
in the average size of trucks has taken place over the same period, with trucks
of 5 ton or more capacity accounting for more than 50% of the truck fleet in
1972, contrasting with less than 33% in 1961. Competitive road transport rates
attracted much bulk traffic, including petroleum, away from the railway; trucks
with capacities of 30 tons and more, and with axle loads of well over the
8,000 kg limit, became common by the late 1960's.  Trunk roads were inadequate
to support such heavy loads and, during a period of lax weight regulation en-
forcement, deteriorated rapidly, particularly the main Nairobi-Mombasa road.
Stricter enforcement of the traffic rules since 1969 is now bringing the



-7-
situation under control, and revisions to the rail tariff have won back
much of the bulk traffic to rail. A highway traffic law enforcement agency
has been established by the Kenya Police, and special highway patrols are
being equipped for service on the principal roads. The Bank Group is con-
tributing to the effectiveness of this agency through the provision of
automatic weighbridges on the Nairobi-Mombasa road, under the Fourth High-
way Project. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that vehicle
weight and dimension regulations will continue to be rigorously enforced.
C.    Administration
3.04       The MOW has responsibility for administration, construction and
maintenance of the highway system. It has several departments (Roads,
Materials, Structures, Electrical, Mechanical, etc.), all reporting to the
Engineer-in-Chief, who is the senior technical officer of the Ministry.
Formerly there was some overlapping of executive functions which militated
against efficiency but under a recent reorganization (para 3.05), the Chief
Engineer Roads, as head of the Roads Department, has been given executive
responsibility over all functions pertaining to highways, including the
maintenance and repair of equipment. Most senior and middle management posts
in the Roads Department headquarters are filled by Kenyan nationals. Two
expatriate advisors are provided under bilateral technical assistance. A
number of middle management positions, also filled by expatriates provided
under bilateral aid, will be filled by Kenyans within about five years
according to current projections. The Department employs consultants to
supplement its permanent staff.
D.    Maintenance
3,05       In 1968, the road network was found to be deteriorating, partly
because of overloading but largely because the organization for road
maintenance was no longer adequate. A study was undertaken as part of the
Third Highway Project (Loan 639-KE) which recommended reorganization of
the MOW, an extensive training program, and provision of new maintenance
equipment. Under the new organization which was adopted in 1970, the MIOW
has full responsibility for all public highways with the exception of some
minor local authority roads. It also maintains about 3,500 km of other roads
for special agencies. The maintenance of roads in the larger urban areas is
delegated by the MOW to the local authorities who receive supporting grants-
in-aid.
3.06       In response to the findings of the maintenance study, the Government
is undertaking an extensive highway maintenance project with the financial
assistance of the Bank Group (Credit 224-KE). Under the project, the staff
of the Roads Department has been strengthened, maintenance equipment and
workshops are being provided, and supervisors, equipment operators and
mechanics are being trained. Road maintenance is improving as a result.
The Government has confirmed its intention of keeping the national road
network adequately maintained.



E.    Planning and_Fnancing
3M07        The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, working closely with
the MOW, prepares broad investment plans for the highway sector at the
beginning of each Five Year Plan period.  The MOW, through its Planning Unit,
evaluates proposed projects and prepares the detailed investment program.
While in its engineering aspects the MOW's highway project preparation has
been satisfactory, economic evaluation has been weak, largely because the
Government has been unable to recruit suitably qualified experts for the MOW
Planning Unit. This deficiency is critical to Kenya as it is Government
policy for the MOW to undertake the necessary feasibility studies for all
highway investments including those to be financed from external sources.
The Government has been seeking bilateral aid for the financing of these
experts and, recently, the Canadian International Development Agency agreed
to provide two transport economists to the MEOW; thus this deficiency should
be largely remedied in the near future. The Government has agreed the
experts' terms of reference with the Bank and is proceeding with their re-
cruitment.
3.08        Road construction under the ongoing Second Development Plar
(1969/70-1973174) is expected to account for nearly 30% of total planned
public sector development expenditures financed by the Central Goverrment
during the period. As originally conceived, the Plan allocated K Sh 860
million for capital investment in roads, a sizeable increase over road
development expenditures during the previous five years (K Sh 380 million).
Because of increased construction costs and the need for higher construction
standards, in 1970 a number of projects were rephased, and some new ones
added. The revised plan involves about 25% more (at 1967 prices) than was
originally planned, although less than Twould in fact have been required to
complete the origirnal program. The Third Development Plan (1974/5-1978/9)
is under preparation.
3.09        A large proportion of the funds devoted to highways during the last
decade has been for the upgrading and maintenance of trunk roads which have
sustained the heaviest traffic growth. As the trunk road system is gradually
being brought up to a satisfactory standard, the major emphasis is shifting
to the improvement of roads serving rural areas.  The present project, which
will overlap the second and third plan periods, is indicative of the increased
emphasis being given by the Government to agricultural development and,
accordingly, to the improvement of access to areas of high agricultural
potential.
3.10        At the present time the Government is receiving or envisages road
financing from the following sources: IBRD/IDA, Italy, Federal Republic of
Germany, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Canada, Sweden, Norway, United States,
and the African Development Bank.  External aid, nearly two thirds of which
will have been provided by the Bank Group, will account for nearly half of
total highway investment during the current plan period.



-9-
F.    Road User Charges
3.11       Until 1970, revenues from road user charges (Table 3) exceeded
highway construction and maintenance expenditures (Table 4) and could,
therefore, be considered as meeting all highway costs and contributing to
the Government's general revenues. With the recent high rate of increase
in highway expenditures, however, the situation has changed and in 1972
highway expenditures exceeded revenues by 30%. Over the next few years,
revenues are expected to remain slightly below expenditures. The structure
of the current road user charging system appears to reflect satisfactorily
the relative costs imposed by vehicles on the highway system.
G.    Engineering
3.12       Highway design standards (Table 5) are sound and appropriate,
allowing for progressive stage construction as traffic develops. MOW policy
is to use its own staff wherever possible to design roads, and in the past,
the Ministry was able to carry out a substantial volume of work. At present,
however, due to the shortage of sufficiently experienced engineering staff,
particularly in the middle grades, most of the work is carried out by con-
sultants, of which there are a number of international firms operating from
Nairobi. The Government has formulated a long term plan to produce more
graduate engineers and as they become available, the in-house design work
will be increased to provide more professional training opportunities to
Kenyan staff. It is current policy of the MOW to second pupil engineers to
consultants engaged in supervision of contracts to gain field experience in
construction.
H.    Construction
3.13       Highway construction is carried out, for the most part, by contract.
The contracting industry in Kenya has grown considerably in recent years, and
major works have been awarded both to large local firms and to foreign firms
with branches in Kenya. Smaller works, notably isolated bridge construction
and gravelling contracts, have generally been awarded to smaller local
contractors. Contract work is on a unit price basis, major contracts being
awarded after international competitive bidding, while small contracts are
awarded after local competitive bidding. Qualification and bidding proce-
dures of the MOW, its handling of contracts and its dealings with contractors
are satisfactory.
3,14       For some work, the MOW utilizes its own construction units, recently
also employing labor from the National Youth Service (NYS) which was created
to provide training and employment for school leavers. Formerly these units
lacked realistic costing and produced poorer workmanship than that normally
required of contractors, but they have improved with experience and their
performance is now satisfactory. They are currently engaged on the construc-
tion of the road to Ethiopia north of Isiolo, and some settlement roads under
Loan 639-KE.



- 10 -
3.15       The NYS is only one of several schemes introduced in Kenya to
alleviate seasonal employment or unemployment through labor intensive road
construction of certain classes of roads. For example, the MOW sometimes
3pecifies a high labor component in contracts for projects it feels can
appropriatelv be carried out utilizing hand labor. Poor performance and
high financial costs in the past have militated against large-scale labor
intensive work on high standard roads so that this method of execution is
now confined by the MOW to gravelling and minor improvements to low-standard
rural roads. Within the Ministry of Agriculture, three Special Rural
Development Areas have been established as part of its settlement scheme and,
on an experimental basis, several rural penetration roads are being rehabil-
itated on a labor intensive basis. The International Labor Office (ILO) has
recently completed a study (1972) financed by the UNDP aimed at defining an
overall strategy of increased employment and productivity in Kenya. The
report is now being studied by the Government. In the meantime, an expert
from the ILO has been seconded to the MOW to work out a scheme for improving
rural feeder and penetration roads on a labor intensive basis.
4. THE PROJECT
A.    Description
4.01       The project comprises the following:
(a)  improvement of the Nairobi-International Airport road
(14 km) to dual carriageway standard;
(b)  construction or improvement of seven roads (totalling 315 kIn)
serving rich agricultural areas;
(c)  construction or improvement of 388 km of roads of varying
standards required for the Mumias Sugar Development Scheme;
and
(d)  technical assistance for investment planning and
coordination.
The Nairobi-International Airport Road (Table 6: Item 1, and Map 5)
4.02       The Nairobi-International Airport road (14 km) is the most heavily
trafficked section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road. It extends from the London
Road crossing at the edge of the central area of the city, skirts an indus-
trial area and, after branching to the Nairobi International Airport (Embakasi),
continues south toward Mombasa. The adjoining section to the south is being
improved under Credit 276-KE. The existing road consists of a single car-
riageway 6.50 mn in width and the pavement is showing signs of extreme distress;
it will last about another two years and thus urgently needs reconstruction.



- 11 -
4.03       A dual, two-lane carriageway will be constructed from the London
Road crossing to the air terminal access roads being constructed as part of
the Nairobi Airport Project (Loan 826-KE) which this project complements.
A one kilometer length section of single, two-lane carriageway will link
the airport turnoff and the Mombasa road. The route length of the project
road will be 14.0 km with a total length in terms of single, two-lane
carriageways of 28.5 km.
4.04       Construction will be to Class I/Al standard with 7 m wide, two-lane
carriageways. The pavement is designed for a 5,440 kg (12,000 lb) wheel load
and will consist of a 75 mm premix carpet on a 130 mm crusher run stone
roadbase and cement stabilized subbase. In addition to one railway overpass,
the project includes construction of a single-carriageway overpass to carry
airport traffic over the Mombasa road and a minor road underpass. Construction
is expected to take 24 months and will be coordinated with construction of the
new airport terminal under Loan 826-KE to attain the same completion dates.
4.05       The design of the new road fits the plans of the Nairobi City Council
for the future growth of the city and consequent traffic patterns. A major
portion of the project road will form part of a future ring road around the
city, which will improve access to the developing industrial area and to the
airport freight terminal, thus enabling heavy trucks to avoid the city center.
Its design allows addition at some future date of a third lane to each car-
riageway and possible grade separation if justified. The city planning,
traffic, and engineering studies have been carried out by the consultants,
Sir Colin Buchanan and Partners, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, and John
Burrow and Partners; the final engineering was carried out by John Burrow
and Partners.
Roads Serving Agricultural Areas (Table 6: Items 2-8, Maps 2 and 3)
4.06       Seven roads included in the project are important trunk and primary
roads which serve rich agricultural areas in the central and western areas
of the country. Most are presently unimproved earth or gravel roads of
limited reliability. Despite this, traffic has been growing quite rapidly
and their upgrading to either paved or gravel standard is now warranted.
4.07       The Thuchi-Nkubu road (51 km) forms the final link in the Mount
Kenya circuit, 300 km long, most of which has been constructed or improved
with Bank Group assistance over the past 12 years. The section to be
improved passes along the eastern slope of Mount Kenya and is narrow and
tortuous, impassable after the frequent heavy rains and often obstructed
by rock falls. The road will be realigned and the overall distance reduced
41%, from 86 km to 51 km. The design standard is for a Type II/A2 bitumen
road having a 6 m wide carriageway with 2 m shoulders. On the steepest
sections, the maximum allowable design gradient will be increased from 7%
to 10% and climbing lanes provided, a solution which the consultants found
more economic than maintaining a 7% gradient throughout.



- 12 -
4.08       The Thika-Gacharage (21 km) and Nyeri-Kiriaini (30 km) roads
traverse the foothills of the east side of the Aberdare Mountains from north
to south. High ridges and deep valleys east to west have inhibited con-
struction of north-south connections in the past, necessitating lengthy
detours. The two road sections form part of proposed 100 km north-south
link between Thika and Nyeri with the remaining portion to be completed
during the next plan period. At present the roads are unimproved earth or
gravel liable to closure after every rain storm. They will be constructed
to Type II/A2 bitumen standard. While the terrain is hilly, the route does
not present any engineering difficulties and there are no major bridges.
4.09       The Nyeri-Thompson's Falls road (95 km) traverses the rolling
foothills to the north of the Aberdare Mountains, serving a rich agricultural
area, a number of tourist lodges and an airstrip. The existing road is un-
improved gravel. Part will be realigned (and shortened by 12 km) to serve
a large agricultural settlement scheme. The more heavily trafficked end
sections (totalling 44 km) will be constructed to Type II/A2 bitumen stand-
ard having a 6.0 m pavement width; the 51 km center section will be construct-
ed to Type II gravel standard.
4.10       The Broderick Falls-Kiminini road (42 km) was improved to a low
class gravel standard with Bank Group financing twelve years ago. Expected
traffic volumes now justify paving. The road climbs the Nandi Escarpment for
3 km north of Broderick Falls, thereafter passing through open rolling terrain.
Tn the new design the number of bends on the escarpment has been reduced from
9 to 3 and the steepest gradient from 9% to 6%. The road will be constructed
to Type II/A2 bitumen standard, There are a number of major bridges along
the route.
4.11       The Kisii-Mogonga road (27 km) traverses the heart of the Kisii
Highlands and is characterized by steep hills exceeding 8% grade and sharp
curves less than 100 m radius. Due to heavy rains the road is closed to
all but light vehicles for one-third of the year. The realignment of the
road will reduce the distance by 16% (from 32 km to 27 km) and the maximum
gradient will be reduced to 6%. The more heavily trafficked section near
Kisii (about 19 km) will be built to Type II/A2 bitumen standard, and the
remaining 8 km will be built to Type II gravel standard.
4.12       The existing Kisiani-Bondo road (49 km) has come into being over the
years by local improvements to an unengineered track. It undulates through
a high rainfall agricultural area close to Lake Victoria, characterized by
belts of red and brown clayey soils with sections of black cotton soil in
the low areas. The present road has an earth surface and is closed to all
but light vehicles after rain. It will be constructed to a Type II gravel
standard, parts of it on a new alignment.



- 13 -
Mumias Sugar Roads (Table 6: Item 9, and Map 6)
4.13       Based on sound agronomic knowledge after seven years of studies
by sugar experts and favorable results in a pilot scheme, the Government
decided to proceed with the Mumias Sugar Development Scheme, most of which
is being financed by Government and private sources. The factory has been
virtually completed, the nucleus estate put under crops and many outgrowers'
plots sold, developments which are regarded as adequate confirmation of the
Government's intention to complete the operation.
4.14       The Scheme covers an area of about 530 km  which is particularly
well suited to sugar development. The general topography is a gently rolling
series of ridges and valleys. In each valley there is a stream with permanent
water and the River Nzoia flows across the area from northeast to southwest.
Rainfall is well distributed throughout the year, making irrigation unneces-
sary. Climate and soil conditions are sufficiently favorable to enable the
factory to operate throughout most of the year. Numerous roads and tracks of
varying standards are required to provide access to the outgrowers' plots, to
collect the sugar cane and carry it to the factory, and to transport the re-
fined sugar to the railway at Bungoma. Under the project the Scheme's basic
road requirements will be met; these include the following:
(i)  Construction of field access tracks                240 km
(ii)  Construction of sugar collection roads               85 km
(iii) Improvement of selected primary and
secondary roads                                     26. km
(iv)  Paving of the Mumias-Bungoma road                    37 km
388 km
4.15       The access tracks will link the sugar plots located on relatively
high ground to the collection roads which will be constructed along the
ridges. The access tracks will consist of a 4 m wide cleared strip, with
a gravel surface added in areas where clay soils predominate. The collection
roads will be constructed to Type III gravel standard. Unimproved primary
and secondary roads required to carry traffic (averaging 100 vpd) from the
collection roads to the factory will be improved to Type II gravel standard.
Three primary routes serving Mumias have already been reconstructed under
Loan 639-KE to Class I gravel standard and all primary route bridges have
been rebuilt. One of these roads, Mumias to Bungoma, which will initially
carry about 250 vpd, most of it sugar traffic to the railway at Bungoma, will
be upgraded to Type II/A2 bitumen standard.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance
4.16       As noted earlier (para. 2.07), effective transport coordination in
Kenya is presently lacking, but the Government intends to strengthen the
transport coordinating role of the MPC to correct this deficiency. Under
the project, four senior transport economists will assist the Government for
a period of three years. During negotiations, the Government agreed to employ
suitably qualified experts and their terms of reference were agreed.
B.    Execution
4.17       The MOW will be responsible for the execution of construction under
the project. Except as otherwise agreed, consultants acceptable to the Bank
will be employed under the project to supervise all construction work. De-
tailed engineering for all project roads was carried out by consultants, ex-
cept the Thika-Gacharage, the Nyeri-Kiriaini and the Kisiani-Bondo roads which
were engineered by the MOW.
4.18       Because of the urgent need to begin planting sugar immediately if
the 1975 operational deadline for the new sugar factory is to be met, the
Government began construction of the low grade access tracks and collection
roads required for the Mumias Sugar Scheme early in 1973 and has requested
retroactive financing for work completed prior to signature of the proposed
loan (para 4.25). For this construction, the Government engaged, under a
negotiated contract, the managing agents 1/ for the Sugar Project, who have
considerable experience in feeder road construction as well as sugar planting
and processing. The small amount (US$194,000) of construction equipment
required for the work (Table 7) has been procured locally in accordance with
normal Government procedures for the purchase of individual items not exceeding
US$50,000. After completion of the roads the equipment will be turned over to
the equipment pool of the MOW which will be responsible for maintenance of the
sugar roads. The construction works are being supervised by consultants, Sir
Alexander Gibb and Partners. This method of execution and the procurement
procedures adopted are considered acceptable since (i) the managing agents,
being responsible for the layout of plots and sugar planting, are the most
suitable choice for construction of the tracks whose location is intimately
tied to the ownership patterns and layout of participating farms; and (ii)
the local purchase of this small amount of equipment (accounting for less
than 0.5% of total project cost) allows the works to get underway without
delay.
4.19       Construction of all roads except the access tracks and sugar col-
lection roads will be by unit price contract, awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Past experience
in Kenya indicates that fairly large contracts attract the lowest terms. Con-
1/    Bookers Agricultural and Technical Services Ltd.



- 15 -
tracts will probably be let on the basis of individual roads resulting in
contract amounts ranging between US$1.2-8.1 million, which should be sufficient
to attract international competitive bidding. While competition is likely
to be greatest among contractors already working in Kenya, the size of the
program and of individual contract may well attract contractors not yet
active in East Africa. The arrangements for the award of contracts and their
size were agreed with the Government during negotiations. The Government
has a construction program of small projects, mainly regravelling, minor
improvements, small bridges, and surfacing of municipal streets, which keep
the smaller local contracting firms fully employed. Project works are pro-
grammed to dovetail with construction being carried out under Credit 276-KE,
thereby providing continuity of employment for the contracting industry.
The project is scheduled to be completed by late 1976.
4.20       All existing roads have generous right-of-way allowances and no
problems are envisaged in the acquisition of additional land where required.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that adequate rights-of-way
are available to permit construction to start on schedule.



- 16 -
C.    Cost Estimates
4.21       The estimated cost of the project, shown in detail in Table 8,
is sunmarized below (in 1973 prices):
- K Sh million ----   ---- US$ million ----           %
Item                      Local  f         Total   Local       e      Total   F
A. Road Construction
Nairobi Airport
road              10.22   18.99   29.21       1.43    2.66    4.09    65%
Roads serving
agricultural
areas             65.27  121.20  186.47    9.14   16.98   26.12    65%
Sugar roads          7.76   14.40   22.16    1.09    2.01    3.10    65%
Construction
supervision        2.85   11.42   14.27    0.40    1.60    2.00    80%
86.10  166.01  252.11   12.36   23i25   35.31
B. Technical Assistance
Investment
Planning and
Coordination       0.21     1.91    2.12    0.03    0M27    0.30    90%
Subtotal         86.31  167.92  254.23   12.09   23e52   35.61
C. Contingencies
Physical  10%        8.63   16.79   25.42    1.21    2.35    3.56
Price      12%      10.36   20.15   30.51       1.45    2.82    4.27
18.99   36.94   55.93    2.66    5.17    7.83
Total Project Cost:   105.30  204.86  310.16   14.75   28.69   43,44    66%
Say,                                           15.0    29.0    44.0
4.22       The costs of construction works have been estimated by applying
unit prices, based on recent contract rates for similar works (mainly those
awarded under Loan 639-KE and Credit 276-KE), to schedules of quantities
derived from detailed engineering, adjusted to allow for current (mid 1973)
prices, The cost of supervision has been estimated on a man-month basis and
amounts to about 12% for gravel roads and 6% for bitumen roads. A physical
contingency of 10% has been included to cover possible increases in physical
quantities and engineering services. A contingency allowance of 12% has



- 17 -
been provided to cover price escalation, estimated at 7% p.a.; contracts
normally make provision for fluctuations of prices of main materials and
labor. The project cost estimates were reviewed and agreed with the Govern-
ment during loan negotiations.
4.23       On the basis of consultants' detailed analyses, and assuming that
the majority of contracts will be won by foreign firms, the foreign component
for construction is estimated at about 65%. This is slightly lower than
that under previous projects. Fuel, equipment, bitumen, cement, management
overheads and profit are the principal foreign exchange items. The foreign
component of the cost of consultants services is estimated at 80%, and the
of technical assistance at 90%.
D.    Financing and Disbursements
4.24       The Bank loan of US$29.0 million will cover the estimated foreign
costs of the project, or 66% of the total cost. The Government will meet the
local project costs estimated at US$15 million equivalent. On the basis of
the Bank Group lending experience in Kenya, no difficulty with respect to
local cost financing is foreseen.
4.25       It is proposed that up to US$340,000 equivalent be eligible for
financing, retroactive to January 1, 1973, in respect of the construction of
the low-grade access tracks and sugar collection roads, in view of the urgency
to commence the work and the comparatively small amount (less than 1% of the
project total).
4.26       Disbursements from the loan account will be made on the following
basis:
(a) 65% of the costs of construction work under the project
which represents the estimated foreign exchange component
of these works;
(b) 90% of the total expenditures on equipment and spare
parts which represents the estimated foreign exchange
component;
(c) 80% of the total expenditures for consultants? services
which represents the approximate foreign exchange component;
and
(d) 100% of the foreign expenditures on technical assistance.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 9. Any funds remain-
ing in the loan account upon completion of the project should be cancelled.



- 18 -
5.  ECONOlMIC EVALUATION
A.    General
5.01       The project, with its emphasis on the improvement of roads in rural
areas, reflects the redirection of the Government's highway development policy
from the upgrading of trunk roads linking major population centers to the
improvement of access to areas of high agricultural potential.  It will,
therefore, be consistent with the general theme of the draft 1974/75-1978/79
Development Plan which will be initiated during the project. The economic
justification, which rests heavily on potential savings in vehicle operating
costs applied to traffic forecasts derived largely from past traffic trends in
the localities concerned, may, 1n some cases, underestimate the generated traf-
fic and, consequently, the benefits of the investments to the local population.
Induced agricultural production does, however, feature to some extent in all
but the Nairobi Airport road evaluation. Traffic forecasts are based mainly on
the Governmenit's official "60 point census" (para. 3.02) desiggned to analyze
the composition of traffic at strategica11y situated nodes on the road network
and on automatic counts taken at 50 points throughout the system.  Benefits
include the estimated value of time savings to vehicle occupants, but all the
proposed improvements remain above or close to the margin of economic viability
even after exclusion of this item. The attached Annex discusses the bases for
the estimates of economic benefits in more detail.
5.02       The weighted average of the respective econaomic returns for the
project roads, excluding the lumias sugar roads, is 20x.  The economic return
on the sugar roads cannot be extracted in any rational sense from the return
on the sugar project in its entirety, which the consultants estimate at 13%.
All evaluations show a satisfactory first year return. The inclusion in the
project of technical assistance in the form of four transport economists to
be attached to the MPC would result in improved transport coordination yield-
ing significant but ulnquantifiable benefits.
B.    The Nairobi-internationl                d
5.03       The Nairobi-International Airport road is not only the major access
road to East Africa's most important international airport, but also the
busiest section of the Nairobi-Mombasa trunk route and of the international
trunk road to Tanzania via Namanga. The present alignment and standard is
inadequate for forecast traffic volumes, derived from the detailed Nairobi
Airport Access Study completed in 1972 by the British consultants, Sir Colin
Buchanan and Partners.  Traffic is currently 10,000 vpd between Nairobi and
the airport turnoff and, even on conservative estimates, is expected to grow
to 18,000 vpd by 1980 and 23,000 vpd in 1985, of which about 8,000 and 9,000
vpd respectively would be airport traffic. The combined airport and through
traffic includes 15% heavy commercial vehicles. The improvement of the road
will benefit both through traffic and airport traffic, with the realignment
resulting in a significant distance reduction for airport traffic.  To allow



- 19 -
for possible urban highway developments after 1980 which could have an effect
on the airport road, it is conservatively estimated that the benefits of the
investment will remain constant after that date. The associated benefits in
terms of vehicle operating cost reductions will yield an estimated economic
return of more than 20%. The return including benefits from time savings
would be 36% (giving a benefit/cost ratio in excess of 3:1 after discount-
ing at 12%, equivalent to the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Kenya).
C.    Roads Serving Agricultural Areas
5.04       The bituminization of the Thuchi-Nkubu road, with current daily
traffic volumes ranging between 150 and 300 vehicles, will provide all weather
access to an area of considerable agricultural and tourist importance. The
route traverses an intensively farmed flank of Mount Kenya and evacuation of
crops is, at present, frequently frustrated by the poor condition of the
existing road, particularly during the rainy season when sections become
impassable. Traffic is expected to grow at about 15% p.a., doubling in five
years. Benefits on the basis of vehicle operating savings to normal and
diverted traffic resulting from realignment and upgrading, and of conserva-
tively estimated increases in agricultural production, are estimated to yield
an economic return of 22%.
5.05       The heavily trafficked Thika-Gacharage road, with an average
traffic volume of about 350 vpd, and the Nyeri-Kiriaini road, with current
traffic volumes approaching 200 vpd, traverse a densely populated agricul-
tural area where tea, coffee and dairy products predominate. Highway im-
provements in this area of the Aberdare foothills have featured in several
earlier Bank Group projects and, in almost all cases, have had a marked in-
ducing effect on agricultural output. Traffic is expected to grow at a
rate of between 8% to 12% annually over the next few years. Benefits through
improvement in the form of vehicle operating cost reductions, all-weather
access to markets and avoided maintenance costs would give an estimated
economic return of about 36% on the Thika-Gacharage section and 23% on the
Nyeri-Kiriaini section.
5.06       On the Nyeri-Thompson's Falls road, upgrading the heavily trafficked
end sections (about 200 vpd) to bitumen standard will permit substantial
savings in vehicle operating costs. A new alignment and improved gravel
standards for the middle section (about 100 vpd) will result in further
operating cost reductions and encourage agricultural production in an area
where all-weather access is, at present, limited. A settlement scheme pro-
posed for the area served by the road will benefit substantially from the
realignment which will guarantee all weather access to markets in the
Thompson's Falls and Nyeri areas. The existing alignment will be retained
in service for local traffic but its maintenance costs should fall as a result
on the reduced traffic volume. The estimated economic return is 21%.



- 20 -
5.07       The Broderick Falls-Kiminini section, with current traffic volumes
exceeding 200 vpd, forms the greater part of the existing gravel road between
the major towns of Broderick Falls and Kitale. Traffic volumes should
register a sharp increase with the opening of the paper mill (in which IFC
has an investment) currently under construction and the associated population
increase at Broderick Falls. Benefits through improvement, principally in the
form of vehicle operating cost savings but with some induced agricultural
production, are estimated to yield an economic return of 16%. The upgrading
of this section will complete the bituminization of the link between the
major centers of Kisumu and Kitale.
5.08       The Kisii-Mogonga road provides the principal access route to
Kisii township for the surrounding farming area. It skirts the fertile
and intensively farmed Kisii Highlands and is of considerable importance
to tea and coffee traffic. It is heavily trafficked, with traffic volumes
ranging from 500 to 150 vpd and growing at about 9% p.a. It is expensive
to maintain and is often closed to heavy vehicles in wet weather. Upgrading
and realignment will permit substantial savings in vehicle operating costs
and maintenance costs and stimulate agricultural output by providing more
dependable access to markets. The improvement will have a tourist potential
in linking the Narok and Kavirondo Gulf areas, particularly if suitable ac-
commodation is provided in Nyanza Province. The estimated economic return
is 14%.
5.09       The Kisiani-Bondo road, carrying 250 to 150 vpd, comprises the more
heavily trafficked section of the road linking Kisiani, near Kisumu, with
Lake Victoria at Usenge. The westerly section of this link giving access to
the lake does not justify upgrading at this stage. The improvement will re-
duce vehicle operating costs and journey times and the provision of year round
access to the surrounding agricultural area should encourage increased pro-
duction. It will also facilitate development of the proposed Yala Swamp
Settlement Scheme. The estimated economic return, net of future benefits
associated with the settlement scheme, is 14%.
D.    Mumias Sugar Roads
5.10       The Mumias Sugar Scheme comprises a complex of access tracks, col-
lection roads and a number of existing primary and secondary roads essential
to the servicing of the sugar factory nearing completion on the Nzoia River
near Mumias and the surrounding plantation and outgrowers' plots. While
Kenya is expected to remain a net importer of sugar, the program will save
needed foreign exchange as well as directly benefiting some 6,000 outgrowers.
Initial production is planned at 50,000 tons of sugar per annum to be ex-
panded ultimately to 80,000 tons. The nucleus estate is being expanded to
3,200 hectares and local farmers within an 13 km radius of Mumias will plant
another 7,300 hectares. As no cash crop exists in the area, there should be
considerable demand to grow cane.  Given the nature of the operation, individual
economic returns cannot be estimated for each road, but the improvement of the



- 21 -
complex as a whole is clearly justifiable as an integral part of the Sugar
Scheme, the economic viability of which has been established under a separate
study. 1/ The improvement of the existing primary and secondary roads, par-
ticularly the bituminization of the important Mumias-Bungoma road, would
yield further unquantified benefits in reducing operating costs to normal
local traffic.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       Following are the principal matters discussed and agreed between
the Government and the Bank during loan negotiations:
(a) the implementation, at an early date, of a Road
Transport Study to provide data for and to analyze,
road transport policy (para. 2.08);
(b) the employment, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, of four transport economists to assist
the Government in investment planning and coordination
(para. 4.16); and
(c) the employment of consultants to supervise construction
under the project (para. 4.17).
6.02       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$29.0 million equivalent
to the Government of Kenya.
1/ Bookers Agricultural and Technical Services Ltd., "Mumias Sugar Scheme,"
July 1970.
July 25, 1973






TABLE 1
KENYA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJ"ZT
1/
Road Network
A. Length of Roads according to Type (1960-1972)
Improved Gravel       Unimproved
Year     Paved Roads        and Earth Roads2/        Roads       Total
1960        1,021              14,934               25,607     41,562
1961        1,201               15,120              25,509      41,830
1962        1,489               15,059              25,126      41,674
1963       1,790                15,159              2h,992     41,941
1964        1,811               15,143              24,992     41,946
1965        2,062               14,892              24,992      41,946
1966        2,151              15,031               24,992      2,174
1967        2,220              14,726               24,992     41,938
1968        2,460               14.,221             24,992     41,673
1979        2,489               14,179              24,992     41,660
1976        3,096               5,00031             36,07731   44,173
1971        3,101               5,6661/             36,8317-    44,932
1972        3,340(7%)           4,560 (10%)         38,868 (83%)46,768
Source: Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, "Statistical Abstract"
B. Length of Roads according to New Classification (1972)
Class of Road                  Length
Classified
A - International Trunk Roads           2,965
B - National Trunk Roads                2,514
C - Primary Roads                       7,747
D - Secondary Roads                     9,945
E - Minor Roads                        20,108
43,279
Temporarily Classified                            762
Special Purpose
A - National Parks                      1 ,538
B - Sugar Roads                         1,098
2,636
Township                                         105
Source: Ministry of Works, "Road Classification - July 1972"
1/ Including municipal and special purpose roads.
2/ Only gravel roads included after 1970 reclassification.
37 Estimated.
v__n -  ) r'   -1 n7



TABLE 2
KENYA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
E3timated -Number of  tbtor Vehicles
Fiscal      Passenger    Pick-ups, Vans                    Other Motor
Year         Cars           and Buses        Trucks        Vehicles        Total
1960         40.0             24.7            10.2           4.0            78.9
1961         42.4             25.9            10.3           4.3            82.9
1962         45.2             27.6            10.3           4.6            87.7
1963         48.0             29.4            10.3           5.1            92.8
1964         50.5             31.8            10.2           5.7            98.2
1965         53.7             34.9            10.2           6.2           105.0
1966         55.7             36.7            11.2           7.0           110.6
1967         57.6             38.6            12.3           7.8           116.3
1968         59.6             40.3            13.3           8.6           121D8
1969         61.6             42.2            14.3           9,3           127.4
1970         63.5             44.0            15.4          10.1           133.0
1971         65.5             45.8            16.4          10.9           138,6
1972         67.5             47.6            17.4          11.7           144.2
Average Annual
Growth Rate:
1960 to 1965   6.1%             7.2%            0.1%           9.2%           5.9%
1965 to 1972   3.3%             4.5%            7.9%           9.5%           4,6%
1/  Excludes motorcycles and trailers.
Source: 1960-65 estimated by the U.K. Road Research Laboratory on the
basis of new vehicle registrations and vehicle scrappage rates;
1966-72 Central Bureau of Statistics
July 25, 1973



TABLE 3
KEN~YA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Central Government Revenues from Road Users
Gasoline and
Fiscal                    Diesel Fuel             Other
Year      Licenses     Taxes and Duties      Import Duties     Total
1960       17,254           47,342              24,002         88,598
1961       17,084           60,778              15,068         92,930
1962       18,034           80,396              19,412        117,842
1963       14,748           89,822              33,210        137,780
1964       13,354           95,096              31,680        140,130
1965       18,474          101,32?              41,280        161,076
1966       23,030          116,334              55,884        195,248
1967       25,682          133,720              65,402        224,804
1968       27,624          143,942              65,546        237,112
1969       25,352          160,518              79,696        265j566
1970       29,062          178,672              94,850        302,584
1971       40,622          208,172             117,286        366,080
19721'     52,270          229,570              85,576        367,416
P Provisional
Source:  Statist-cal Abstract, 1972
July 25, 1973



TABLE 4
KMYA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Cen_tral Government Ependitures on Roads
(K Sh '000)
Fiscal                                                   A iitrioli               oa
Year          Const rction          Maintenance         Adminis_ration/        Total
19559             11,020               17,080               12,580            40,680
1960             30,260                13,8320              13,660            62.,740
1961             42,540                19,740               14,140            76,420
1962             44,220                23,500               13,040            80,760
1963             47,980                263,820              14,460            89,260
1964              15,980               22,620               12,980            51,580
1965             33,230                23,425                6,800            63,455
1966              70,570               33,320                6,915           110,805
-1967             80,495               35,555                5,775           121,825
1968              90,875               35,410               9,900           136,185
1969            122,485                43,405               13,435          179,325
1970            183,500                67,065               15,015           265,580
1971            282,680                80.,240              17.,035          379,955
1972            350,965               106,380               18,205           475,550
1973V           366,880                88,400                n.a.
1/  C-ross total for all IW  activities (1959-64); net total
allocated to Roads and Aerodromes (1965-1972).
2/ Estimated.
Source: Ministry of Works, May 1973
Juiy 25, ii: <



TOBLE 5
-KENYA
FIFIH HIGHWA!. PADJECT
Highway Design Standards Adopted by the M
1. GEOMErRIC
Design Speed                     kmAh   30   40    50        60      80     100
Minimum Horizontal
Radius                          ml    35   70   125      175      350     600
Maximm Gradient                   S      12   10     8.5      7.5     6.o     5.0
Minimum Sight Stopping
Distance                        m      -    -     60       80     110     150
Minimum Passing Sight
Distance (Reduced)              m      -    -    200     250      300     400
2. CROSS SECTION
Type                                       I         II         III
Width of Road Reserve             m       80        60         40
Width of Pavement (Bitumen)       m        7.00      6.oo       5.50
Width of Each Shaalder (B)        m        2.50      2.00       1.25
Width of Surfacing (Gravel)       m        5.50      5.50       5.50
Width of Each Shoulder (G)        m        4.25      2.75       1.75
2/
3. PAVYIMNT
Type of Cross Section                           I                 II          III
Heavy Vehicle Per Day (hvpd)              450 150- 150   450  150- 150   50
+   450   max.   +   450   max. max.
MOW Design CBR Curve                      Al  A2    A3    Al   A2    A3    B
Bituminous Surface Thickness      mm       75   55    20    75   55    20   20
Gravel Surface  hvpd                                 0-150                   0-50
MOW Design CBR Curve                                   A                      B
Gravel Thickness (Minimum)        mm                   150
Approximate Equivalent Wheel Loads:
450 + hvpa                                 5,454 kg k12,000 lbs)
1v0 - 4j5 hvpd                            4,J>Y  kg (  ,000 lbs)
O - 150 hvpd                             3,200 kg ( 7,000 Ibs)
L. STHJCTURES
(i) Loadirg Criterion
Trunk roads: BS 153 HA loading
(checked for 20 or 25 units HB loading on certain
scheduled roads)
Other roads: 2/3 of BS 153 HA loading
(ii)  Width Between Curbs
For double lane bridges:
Type I cross section           .t00 meters
Type TI & III cross section  6.00
For single lane bridges         L.50
2/ Ad hoc standards may be adopted for special projects or where ncrmal
standards would involve uneconomic costs.
2 Stage construction is normal procedure.
21 Based on UK Rcad Research Laboratory design charts.
Source:  MOW Road resign Manual, November 1970
July 25, 1973



KENYA
FInR HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Construction U.deriP ec
1/                      2/
LENGTH                                               NEW              UNIT COST                 DETAILED
ITEM                RXISTING ROAD                                                       TERRAIN   STANDARD            K.ih/s       S/k                                                 EMARKS_   ___
'000        '0
1       Nairobi - Mombasa Road                              6 a wide bitumen          flat        Bit  I          2,086/          292Y'     John Burrow and            Rtconatruction and strengthening
(London Road - Nairobi Airport) 14                  (failed)                              (dual)/AI      l,02l6          143W      Partners                   to dual carriageWay standard and
14                                                                                                                   Partial tealii0vle.t
2       Thuchi-Nknbu                              51        Unimproved earth and    moun-         Bit II/A2       1,132          158        Sir Alexander Gibb         Constru.t ion of paved road on
gravel                    tainous                                              and Partners               new shortened alignment
3       Thika-Gacharage                          21         Unimproved earth          hilly       Bit II/A2         440           61       'fOW                        Reconstr-ction and Inproveaent
on existing alignment
4       Nyeri-Kiriaini                            30         Unimproved gravel         hilly       Bit II/A2        600           84        MOW                        Reconutttion   and ieproveesent
on existing alignment
5       Nyeri-ThCoApBnO's Falls            44               Gravel                    rolling    Bit II/A2          IS91          68        Scott Wilson Kirk-         Reconetroction and improvement
patrick and Partners    -  on existing alignment
Gravel II        320           44                                  -  on new slignment
6       Broderick falls-Kiminiol                  42         Improved gravel          hilly/      Bit I1/A2         68            90        Ioward HNsmphreys          Lmproveusot of gravel-eoad- built
rolling                                              and Sons (EA)               moder 256-KE
7       Kisii-Mogonga                      19               Unimproved earth          hilly       Bit tI/A2        d20           1111       Sir  Alexander Gibb        Re-on-tr-ction,  iLpr6vidhat
8    27         and gravel                            Gravel II        380           53         and Partners              and paltial realigmeet
8       Kiriani - Bondo                                            "                  rolling    Gravel II          360           50         IW                       Raconatruction, inprovool and
314~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i AeadrGb  partial. realilGnment
9       Munias Sugar Roads:                                                                                                                 Sir Alertnder  Gibb
and Partners
a)  Access Tracks                       240         none                      rolling    4 Ia eacth
(unsurfaced)       8.5         1.2                                 UN existing roads
b)  Collection Roads                     85         Some existing gravel    rolling    Gravel III           26           4                                    Inprovemeut of existing tracks
roads and earth tracks                                                                                    and construction of new gravel
roads
c)  Primary and Secondary Roads          26         Unimproved gravel         rolling    Gravel II         320          45                                    Grevelliog of existing  -oads
and earth
d)  Mumias-BRung-ma                      37         En:giueered gravel        ralling     Bit II/A2        260          36                                    Pavirg ousit rig einr.g   erd grarcl
road constructed under 639-KE
388
1/ See Table 5 for standards.
2/ At 1973 prices excluding contingencies.
3/  Route length 14 km.                                                                                                                                                                                      M
4/ Single carriageway length is 28.5 km.
Source    Ministry of Works, September 1972 with  ilssion amnodments, June 1973.
J-ay 25, 1973



TABLE 7
YA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Construction of Access Tracks
Unit      Total
Construction Equipment                      Quantity           Price      Price
(K Sh)     TK Sh)
Description
t.   Bulldozer (D6 type)                              1          342,000     342,000
2.   Grader (D12 type)                                2          220,000     440O,000
3.   Tracks - tipping (7 ton)                         3           63,500      190,500
4.  Front end loader                                  1          177,000      177,000
5.  Roller - vi.brating                               1           58,000       58,ooo
6.   Land Rover (SWB) type vehicle
(or equivalent)                      2           35,500       71,OOO
7.   Tractors (agricultural type)                     2          Varies        96,000
8.   Trailer Unit                                     1            8,200        8,200
TOTAL                1,382,700
Say                 US$1 94,000*
* Of which the foreign component represents about 90%
Source: Ministry of' Works, May 1973
July 25, 1973



LJGT0         - -   -K Sh Iu0O - - - -   -                 S-  - - - -S   -               5 OF
A
1. Nairobi - 1I,&2asa Road
(Land,  aoad - Nairobi Airport)                   14        10,222        18,985    29,207        1,432       2,659     4,091              11%
Ii4
2. Thuchi - Nkubu                                     51        20,207        37,527    57 734        2,830       5,256      8,o86
3. Tib-Gac:herage                                     21         3,234         6,006     9,24s0         453         841      1,294
4. Nyori - Xiriaini                                   30          6,300       11,700    18,000          882       1,639      2,521
5.  Nyeri - Tbc:Tsm'a Falls                           95         13,300       24,700    38,000        1,863       3,459      5,322
6. Broderick Fz ails - Klimini                        42         9,534        17,706    27,240        1,335       2,480      3,815
7.  Kiait  - MogonKga                                 27         6,517        12,103    18,620          913       1,695      2,608
8. Lisiani - Btndo                                    La                     JI4J           8       6       S- ZW I71
315     65,266      121,208   1 6,474        9,1141      16,976    26,117              73%
9. iMia,, Sugar Rcadn:
a.  Accesos troks                                240           714         1,326     2,O40          100         186       286
b. Collaction Roads                               85           763         1,1417    2,180          107         198       305
c. Prirwry exA secndary reads                     26         2,912         5,408     8,320          1408        757      1,165
d. Inai,ds - Dungom Road                        _Iz       9      A          Q 6                   JI.          .&Z8.     1 .&Z
388      7,756       14,404    22,1?0        1,086        2,017     3,103               9%
Projact Supervision                                              41           1LJi   ].IMQ            JlQ         L-522    1342                  6%
c            a         
Investi,nt Plnining and Coordination                              *     llj .,22.    g9,21                         -2   J:222L                   1%
Subtotal                 86,310       167,922   254,232       12,089      23,518    35,607             100%
D           MUTRlIMMirI1_
Physical     10%                                                  8,631       16,792    25,423        1,209       2,352      3,561
Price        12%                                                 123;j        20.1J1    x     _       I,          2.822
18,988       36,943    55,931        2,659       5,174      7,833
TOTAL PRlOJECT COST     105,298       204,865   310,163       14,7148     28,692    43,440
SAY                                                             15.0        29.0      144.0
3/ In June 1973 Prices
Source: Ministry of WJorks with l4iasion smendments
July 25, 1973



TABLE 9
KENYA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                            at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                 _
December 31, 1973                                   -
March 31, 1974                                     300
June 30, 1974                                   1,880
1974/75
September 30, 1974                              2,800
December 31, 1974                               4,500
March 31, 1975                                  6,400
June 30, 1975                                   8,500
1975/76
September 30, 1975                             10,800
December 31, 1975                              13,300
March 31, 1976                                  16,100
June 30, 1976                                  18,800
1976/77
September 30, 1976                             22,000
December 31, 1976                              24,900
March 31, 1977                                 26,900
June 30, 1977                                  27,70o
1977/78
September 30, 1977                             28,600
December 31, 1977                               29,000
Source:  Ministry of Works, September 1972 and Mission Estimates,May 1973.
July 25, 1973






ANNEX
Page 1
*KENYA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimatior. of Economic Benefits
The economic evaluations of the roads proposed for inclusion in
the Fifth Highway Project were carried out by the Planning Unit of the
Ministry of Works. Benefits were evaluated on an annual basis up to 1996.
The methods adopted for the identification-and quantification of benefits
are as follows.
1.        Traffic Forecasts.  Forecasts of normal traffic growth were based
on statistics yielded by the official 60 point census, 50 point automatic
count and supplementary manual counts. Normal traffic growth was estimated
for individual sections of each road by reference to past growth trends
modified to take account of the economic potential of the area served by
each road 3;ection as indicated by population and output forecasts. There
is, unfortunately, no totally dependable series of statistics indicating
past growth trends. An independent study has shown that official statistics
consistently under-estimated the number of passenger vehicles up to 1965.
The Bank estimates for the 1960-65 period have been based on the revised
figures. The Government believes that this discrepancy in the official es-
timates has now been largely eliminated and Bank estimates for the 1966-72
period have been derived by rnterpolation from the revised 1965 figures to
the official 1972 figures. An element of underestimation in this category
may, however, persist. Revised estimates also indicate that the number of
trucks in operation, formerly thought _to be_constant throughout the 1960's,
registered a steady increase after 1965.  Generated traffic has been fore-
cast independently for each road section as a function of the estimated
economic activity in the area served.  Total traffic forecasts for each
section are given in Table A-1 attached. More detailed breakdowns by
vehicle types and normal and generated traffic are given in the "Highways
V Loan Application" Supplement of October 1972.
2.        Vehicle Operating Cost Reductions.  Vehicle operating costs on
each road with and without the proposed improvement were derived from detailed
estimates nade in previous highway studies carried out in East Africa. The
estimates for each vehicle type adopted by the Ministry of Works for the
eval uation falls between the high and low limits in the earlier studies. The
exact method 'by which the MOW estimate is derived is not explained but sub-
sequent analysis by the IEBRD indicates that the overall benefits would not
be significantly affected even if the least favorable of the earlier estimates
were substituted. The cost estimates are differentiated to reflect the varying
operating conditions on different classes of roads. Each of the road sections
in the project has been assigned to the appropriate class with and without the



A\NWEX
Page 2
improvement In accordance with the estimated effect of the interaction of such
-ractors as average gradient, drainage, gravel quality, horizontal alignment,
width9 etc. The estimated operating cost savings for each section are applied
In ful. to normal traffic, and halved for generated traffic. The SW vehicle
operating cost estimates in terms of cents per mile are given below. A more
detailed description o2 the respective vehicle types and the methods of rating
roads can be found in _he i'Highways V Loan Application" of September 1972.
Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates (US cents per mile)
Car   LRht San  Ledium Truck   Heavy Truck   Bus
Class 3itumen (50 mph)    7.7        8.1         f7a1             33.6        9.6
Class Gravel 4 (45 mph)   9.5       10.2         21.0             39.2       23.7
Class Gravel 3 (40 mph';  N0.9      11.6         2471             44.4       26.9
Class Gravel 2 (35 mph)  12.2       13.0         27.3             49.7       30.0
Class Gravel I (3C mph), 13.7       14.4         30.4             55.0       33.2
Class Gravel 3 (25 mph)  15.0       15.8         33.6             60.2       36.4
3.        Vehicle Occt_ants' Time Savinzs,  The value of estimated time savings
to vehicle occupants (excepting those of commercial vehicle drivers, already
allowed for under the vehicle operating cost estimates) attributable to the
proposed improvements, were quantified by reference to data given in "The
Value of Time Savinges from Road Improvements:  A Study in Kenya".  (Road
Research Laboratory Report LR 372. 1971).
4.        Avoided Maintenance,  Estimated benefits from avoided maintenance
represent the maintenance costs that would appropriately have been incurred on
the original road section if the improvernent were not carried out, but would
be rendered unnecessary in the event of improvement.  In cases where, through
proposed major realignment, the original section would be retained in service
after improvement, no benefit has been estimated, although reduced traffic
flow on the original route wuld probably yield further maintenance cost
savings. Estimated mailntenance costs for the new sections are included with
the capital cost estimates.
5.        Agricultural Benefits.  The quantification of induced agricultural
production is considered, in most cases, to be highly conservative. The es-
timates given in Table A-2 attached represent the value of clearly identifiable
potential increases and appear, on the basis of past experience on similar roads
in Kenya, to underesti:riate substantially the probable development effects of
improvement.  This applies particu'larly to the Thuchi-Nikubu, Thika-Gacharage,
Nyeri-Kiriaini and Kis`i-Nogonga roads.
July 25, 1973



Table A-1
Page 1
FIFTIL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts
(average vpd)
Nairobi - International Airport
London Road-              Old Airport Road-             New Airport Road-
Old Airport Road            New Airoort Road            R4ombasa Road _Junction
1975                        10,700                        15,710                       6,400
1980                        16,o40                        26,930                       9,500
Thuchi- Nkubu
Thuchi-Chuka               Chuka-Muthambe                Muthambe-lwo ii                Ieo i-Nkubu
1974                            128                          136                         337                          207
1975                            147                           157                        388                          239
1976                            164                           175                        439                          266
1977                            183                           196                        491                          299
1978                            209                           224                        561                          342
1979                            236                          252                         632                          385
1980                            266                           283                        711                          434
1985                           404                           433                       1,o65                          659
1990                           595                           636                       1,568                          967
1995                            874                           935                      2,306                        1,,421
Thika - Gacharage
Thika-                E. 513 Junction                   Kandara-
E. 513 Junction                 -Xandara                     Gacharaee
1974                           566                           389                         456
1975                           662                           453                         532
1976                            748                           511                        601
1977                            863                          586                         695
1978                            982                          669                         792
1979                         1,115                            761                        899
1980                         1,261                           861                       1,018
1985                         1,999                         1,369                       1,608
1990                          3,075                        2,io6                       2,472
1995                        14,747                         3,252                       3,719
Nveri - Kiriaini
Nyeri-                D. 432 Junction                   Othaya-                  S. 549 Junction
D. 432 Junction                 -Othava                  E. 549 Junction                  -Kiriaini
1974                            464                           244                        2142                          55
1975                            541                           283                        282                           65
1976                            625                          326                         326                           76
1977                            710                           371                        1370                          85
1978                            808                           421                        420                           99
1979                           919                           478                         477                          111
1980                          1,034                           539                        536                          125
1985                          1,634                           855                        851                          195
1990                         2,511                          1,313                      1,310                          299
1995                          3,880                         2,027                      2,023                          461
July 25, 1973
(continued)



INNEX
Table A-1
Tra"F ic Forecasts (cont'd)                                       Page 2
(average vpd)
lhoscsc 'ns Falls - Nyeri
Thompson's Falls-             B5 Junction                    Mweiga
85 Junction                  -Y.weiga                     -Nveri
1974                            202                            64                        1,050
1975                            236                             76                       1,225
1976                            264                             85                       1,372
1977                            296                             96                       1,537
1978                            345                            109                       1,749
1979                            386                            124                       1,969
1980                            437                            141                       2,217
1985                            673                            215                       3,487
1990                          1,014                           332                        5,366
1995                          1,597                            512                       8,293
Broderick Falls - Kirnini
Broderick Falls                 Misikhu-                   Kamakowia-                   C. 44 Junction
-4isikhu                   KamC. 4w4 Junc tion                                         -iinini
1974                            473                          220                          267                           266
1975                            546                          261                          308                           304
1976                            627                          293                         345                            340
1977                            738                          335                          393                           367
1978                            856                          379                         )4i1                           437
1979                            957                          425                          498                           492
1980                          1,o69                          475                          557                           553
1985                          1,501                          717                          847                           834
1990                          2,206                        1,055                       1,246                          1,227
1995                          3,245                        1,551                       1,831                          1,802
Kisii - Mogona
Kisii-                     Iturmbe-                    Ogembo-
Itumbe                     Oseibo        M       o       songa
1974                            636                          146                           82
1975                            741                          171                           96
1976                            838                          19-                          108
1977                            961                          222                          123
1978                          1,093                          250                          141
1979                          1,242                          285                          161
1980                          1,406                          323                          182
1985                          2,230                          514                          288
1990                          3,431                          792                         443
1995                          5,278                        1,219                         68)4
Kisiani - Bondo
Kisiani-                     giambewa                     Ndori
Kambewa                      -Ndori                      -Bondo
1974                            260                          192                          165
1975                            295                          218                          187
1976                            336                          248                          214
1977                            388                          286                          246
1978                            436                          322                          277
1979                            486                          359                          309
1980                            552                          407                          350
1985                            871                           643                        553
1990                          1,266                          950                          817
1995                          1,876                        1,385                       1,191
Source:  Ministry of Works, May 1973
July 25, 1973



'0                                    0  0    0     0     0     0     0     0     0    0     0     0                           0 0      0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    _     00                             0     0     0    0     0  0     0     0    0     9                              0     0    0     ~       C    o   O   o    O     O   O
CO   0 0   0 4    8   ~  ~    8  ~    8       ~        g   ~     0                           0 ~0.0 0                     N00        0 0     0    0                           0  0     0          0     0     4     0    0     4      40                                                                                    N    0 ~ 0   0
N~~~~0                                                    '_      0    0                                 00           _       00                                     0     0           0    0    0     4    1                                00       0     0     0     0    0     0     0     0     00                             0
C =                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~0  0          0        0   0000  0                                        000               0000              000               00 00  00S0     0NNNNNNN                 NNNN2OOg@q           o@  000  0000 0 00
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =
0          0B;                                                                                                                                                                                              '1 6     f
0   C   X  a                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                      w.~~~~~~10 
_o               o    O     o    O      O     O     O      O     O    j _4 04N0 00N0_0N0 00N4 0 0 f                                                                  0                 4 0       $ 0      0 0     0    0         0 4    0_                                 0 0 0      0 0     0o               0 r4N010                       O
0 0      .  O     O     O      O  O     O     O     O     O     ]                             0  0    0     0     0     0    0       0  0     0    j                             0  0    0     4  4     0      0  0    0    0  2     A                              0    0    0 0 0 0  0 0  4     0^    0 0 0    0>>   >   0   3 0 0 1



Tagble A-2
Page 2
Icoocic ss eicfls (coo t)
(K8h 000)
Capita! acrd        VehicLe Operati.g       Vehicle Occnpoceo        Avoided        Agri-olt-ro1        Total
6lioceecoce Costs        Cost saYnsloc            lits 1091000         2laesemeoeu        oseilcot        Oroefito
0974e                  420                       -                         -                  -
1975                 5,C8(                       -                         -                  ---
19/6                 L,943                       _                        -
1977                12,560                       -                        _                   -_
1978                 2,466                     3,160                    1,360                 -               480            5,020
1979                   240                     3,60C                    .,550                 -               S20            5,640
19/O                   24C                     4,060                   1,720                  -                A40           6,320
1981                   560                     4,520                   1,9260-                                               7,000
1982                   240                     4,900                   2,030                  -                              7.560
1983                   240                     5,369                   2 2dO                  -               62C            8,260
19S4                 1,320                     2,622                   2,460                  -                               8,80
1903                   24C                     6,26G                   7,0                                    640            9720
1906                   240                     6,320                   2,940                  -               660           10,520
197                   560                     7,560                   3,220                  -               66             ,460
1/3c                   240                     3,24D                   it 500                 -                 0           I 7
1989                   240                       960                   3,320                  -                             13,60
199                  1,32                      9,760                   C,160                  -               600
1991                   24                     10.6b                     .54                   -                 0           15,60
299                    240                    1,600                     ,920                  -               680200
1992                   562                    12,660                   5,360                  -               660           16,220
190                    243                    13,920                   5,800                  -                 O02
loSS                   2490                  01,C8                     6,420                  -               68            2,200
1996                                          0)a5720  140            67/5                                                 24,10
food                40,994                   159,480                  67,020                               12,020          229,390
Disce.ce-d  21    21,380                                                                                                    21,280 (FYR - 177.2
Ocodneick F611o -FireOinOn
1974                 2,580                                                -
1975                 5,94
1976                02,840                                                 -                  --
1977                 1,980                       -                        -                   -
1020                    80                     2,480                     560                 60                e             3,260
1979                    80                     2,760                      740               320                60            3,8
19C                     60                    32,0s0                     800                 60                s0            4,000
1690                    00                     3,320                     880                 69                80            4.340
1932                    80                     3,50C                     960                310                BO            4,940
1980                   820                     2,900                                                           so040  _  80  s,020
19880                    0                    4,180                    1, 20                 66                00            1,440
196S                    SO                     9,520                   1,200                320                30            6,120
1986                    80                     4,900                   1,300                 62                82 6,0
1987                    /0                     2,230                   1,400                 60                80            6,820
1988                    80                     9,680                   2,520                320                60            7,600
1989                   82D                     5,10                    I,40                   -                              7,900
1990                    6o                     6,660                   1,760                 60                ao            8,560
1990                    6O                     7,180                   1,900                323                so            9,480
1992                    60 so760                                       2,060                 60                SO            3,960
963                    60                     8,420                   2.240                 60                80           l0,O00
1600                    06                     9.060                   2,4/C                920                 O           1.860
1995                  8no                      9,800                   0 600                                   S               400
1996                    60                   10.540                    2 800                 60                804
Total               27,000                   100,260                  29,020              2,520                            142,300
ojocoacced  907,   0019,120                                                                                                 23,530 00YR - 14.)
tiedi - Mo0./neo
1974                   660                       -                         -                  -
1975                 3,820                                                 -                  .                 ,
1976                 7,60                        - 6-
1927                 3,040                       _                                            _
1978                   780                     1,095                                                          5207 !,40
1979                   100                     1,240                      040                2605                            i980
0962                   100                     1,400                     :80                 20               58G            2,180
196.                   3/0                     1,500                     040                 S0               600            2,460
1902                   100                     1,720                     220                 20               620            2,580
1983                   3100                    2,80                      240                 20               660            2,080
7193845               3100                     2,240                     010                 20               680            3,240
1986                   130                     2,442                     320                 20               700            3,4S0
1987                   380                     2'660                     360                 60               72080
1988                   100                     2,900                     380                 20               740            4,040
1989                   I00                     3,160                     400                 20               74             4320
1990                   2S0                     3,440                     440                 60               740            4,700
1991                   100                     9,760                     480                 22               740            0,OO0
1692                   100                     4,008C                    5                   2                74380
1993                   380                     4,460                     600                 6C               740            5 860
1994                   I00                     4 8ac                      640                20               74o            6,280
1995                   100                    59320                      ?5C                 20               740            6,780
1996                   3S60                   5.820                     760                 60              0740            7.3o
Tto-l               19.420                    56,120                   7,3S0                500            12,980           77,080
D0soouate/ (1o)    13,080                                                                                                  13,420 (FYR - 12%)
Kioio.i   B en./a
1974                   600                       -                        -
1975                 1,300                       _                         -
1976                 7,S60                       -                        -
1977                 1,300                                                 -
1978                   160                     120                                                            120            '.700
1929                   106                     1,220                     5?.                 24               130            1 099,
1900                   0i9                     9,330                     56'O                20               12              ,009
1981                   160                     2,960                     55r0                20               120             3*0
1962                   150                     i720                       200                20               120              034
5983                   440                     138/0                     sell                20                              200
1996                   060                     2,020                     /6                  2C                               040
1986                   16D                     2,162                      2                  20               060              420
3190267                16/                     2,200                   2,162                                                   96X 20
1900                   16C                    7740                     1 2./                 24                               /08
1969                   1,40                   .60                       12                  24                140               De00
1990                   44C/                    3,221:                  2,                    20        0                     4.7
1990                   0,                      ,  46C <40                                    20               L4n            0 290f
1950                   44t0                    3,729                   12,2,:S              2G                14             S 460
1993                   160                    ' >20                    I ,                   2044                             ,n
19994                  Inf O                  4                                                                                90056i2C10    
19.5                   400                    cOl-,42                                        2I0              140            6 80
1906                  060                                              2                     20             410                3 03
1cc                 1400                      3o1,22 -                21,20"I380                                              365
I9e9oind 14.    1 ,2/0                                                                                                        440 3'0   - 117)
2.12  25,  C9 9



SUDAN  I                                                     ~~~~~KENYA
/                                                                     FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
/                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN Hi GHWAY N ETWOR K
4' %V-                                        Zk e
Lake     K   K-EtHIOPIAW                         
r  Rudolf_
UGANDA                                                     Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rsabit
KITALES MAO[
ondoo          Ki
Mi  ~B Y%   KISI           SokSot'                                  .EML
~Mogonga .    - 
TANZANIA
, -nl ~  ~    , 
~~ 55s~~~~4k ~~~  ~~se~~~r'~~ee~~~s.                                        I ~~AF RICA
S  ~~~~'S5S5~~~~~~~ 'N2NNN~~~~~~~~~ -~~~~ S  -  -  S~~~KE 'Y
55 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~              - 555S,5N   -~N'5T NS                                                             IIJ5\ 0






BRD-10409R
/                             ~~~~~~~~~~JULY 1973
( ~        ~         g              K,'ALE                                        (/                   lo Lodwgr  /
U G A N D A                                      5 nnl   XHo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIAessr3    
UGANDA                                                             ~
~~~~~C48~~~~~~~~~~9
Lk,
"I                                                               51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Koproon K g m ul S  Mo   benk /B4
$> X 2>\)) e 1u f t_ \ T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Th monso, Folls
-~~ Secowndy  roadgs                 'V   S S
Clrmer ~an~r  Grokp tJeb,rrarse  p iS,                                                                                                    =
'trro)XT= \, Asstoce2 _rojec'To Nroad
I Higbrvoay  aowg EnorbCe centers                                                                                                              I                      I
0  OrIfer rogoN qow
\   14                 g                   N>gngu>            C             <      j            t                                   \~~~~~~~~34B, ,.
Internorioncll rounkroo<.   v = =                                                 xD        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IP.1
Z A K E                   r                    ESTER   ARE
7  Prtrfeary rroods             )        \                                                                   (                 )y Ku,
+, i z  tte  Rollways                                                          X                                                    9                          |~~~~9 -d
iFI FTH  H tGHWAtY PROJ ECT                                        \~~K~~h-hH I
gETR  AE                              
F$  ?'1''1 . '1t, t', .1' 1 Rq 
Iner.iQo trn ro{,j,l 
R2 ._ 






IBRD-1041OR
juL6 1973
(S rIgol                                         \                          KENYA                                To Lo-, & M-
W "i                                        FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ci 0   torCENTRAL AREA
\151     
<    icks /a/o vosbrv  )<<\  V        aoroge(> \<R~~~~~~~~si                           B6 Iu
Ugy >KIlsbeR   Kpndor;g,Ro    J   ) wr56( Ktse
s   r3 ectioo  r roads                      NgA           p       r                           -gc5ahr                  _     ;K      U
h grissoy           Mogcd.AhlRer                                              \Kb                   ~      O        ~                9
-   mornTernanke cetrsu  iacd <                                 J<                                                                     .
Pro0ea  5      tS      241 0 7                                                            A/ T
Ic   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pro ecl roeds / t+/ d u ua vDNutgvnl~~~~ 74                     3               EMB
(3)  H ghway   imcgod,  ,>, \   f   Kolodc                  X    9rCte~~~~~~~~KE 
h-         H          M 11 
,-g P-                     --      - \6  SW K-.g
l  :  t   i   I         ro Asu9k9   \                                    4            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~., H
,    ,    ,    .    ,           .   '    '         's                          l~~~~~~~~~~~~T K
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                                    T. .. ':. ' 






IBRD-10411
APR I F973
99                     R9                 &69                  e' 0'- -.
A(7
0(    9~~c 
41t' 
!                                   ot    > t.
.7~~~i
X / 3 u - -- - s o  z -~
H~~~~~
C  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
b/ ^ ByK .E     .Xf                 2     &        ~    .    t.   .      6.  
.1 ': ""j......         ,. .;.                                                                                
/  ' ;.,3 E< . . >; - | ' *f                                                            0      0'  '" -3






ETIOPIA
CITY    OF   NAI ROB I
_/o  i      K E N Y A         t5
AREA OF MAP 
N  NAIROBI
TANZANIA         ~       Oe,
><             .          C                  X                 >      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORT TERMINAL \
Project Road                                              v/<                    
-   Existing Roads                                                 do\x\                   .
-   Former Bank Group                                                             \ \       \
Financed Projects                                                             \, \\
**  -   Planned Future Road Network                                 +             \42o>;'Wd
Rai lways O\S
KILOMETERS                                                                   v\                     ,O ?            
o         1                   2
RIDI
] | ~~~MILES                                                                                                                                                         -  a
NP P S






KENYA
0                                                       ~~~~~~~FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MUMIAS SUGAR ROADS
***Bo-ndary of Sugar Shetee
\  ,.'O    /                                          -      Poin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,ting Roads
_____Rouds Coostrooed to Gravel I Standard
Under Loon 639-KE
0                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS
-to be 6.,It to Gr-on III St..derd
-to be iproed to Groel II Stundatd
. .....   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~~~*-to be nrproved to Bitvi-  fl/A2 Stond.td
0
0
o      1      2      3      4
KILOM'ETERS
o 0                              3
MILES
~)  KENYA              I
IvIl                                                                                                                                         B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *AEA O~MAI
T. K,.-                                                            .11A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N      u.,v     
We~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAdvudvfii,                                                            ~ 



