CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1242 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Riul Mare-Retezat Hydropower Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA DE INVESTITII
Dated April 28, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA DE INVESTITII (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as approved
by Decree No. 314 of 1971 of the Council of State of Romania, and
Decree No. 125 of 1970 concerning the organization and operations
of the Borrower, ratified by Law No. 22 of 1970 of Romania, as
amended by Decree No. 314 of 1971 of the Council of State of
Romania, as amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(d) "TCR" means Trustul de Constructii Hidroenergetice,
established by Decision No. 837/1960 of the Council of Ministers
of Romania;
(e) "TEnM" means Trustul Energo Montaj, established by Deci-
sion No. 838/1965 of the Council of Ministers of Romania;
(f) "TEN" means Trustul Electro Montaj, established by Deci-
sion No. 1679/1953 of the Council of Ministers of Romania;
(g) "ROMENERGO" means the Foreign Trade Enterprise for Power
Equipment, established by Decision No. 28/1971 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania;
(h) "ISPH" means the Design Institute for Hydroelectric
Studies and Projects, established by Decision No. 191/1963 of the
Council of Ministers of Romania; and
(i) "HATZEG Enterprise" means the power generating enterprise
at Hatzeg, established by Decree No. 67 of 1976 of the Council of
State of Romania.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. Such goods and ser-
vices shall be selected in accordance with procedures agreed
upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and the
carrying out of works or services (other than consultants' ser-
vices) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not with-
drawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial, ecological, environmental
and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the Proj-
ect, including the procurement of the goods and services required
therefor;
(b) ISPH shall, where required in cooperation with other
design institutes of Romania, provide the general engineering
services required for the Project;
(c) ROMENERGO and where required other procurement agencies
of Romania shall in accordance with the technical advice received
from ISPH or other authorized design institutes of Romania procure
the goods and services required for the Project and to be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and
(d) HATZEG Enterprise shall:
(i) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with
ISPH or other authorized design institutes of
Romania for the supply of the general engineer-
ing services required for the Project, and with


﻿-7-
the appropriate industrial construction trusts
of Romania as required for the civil works and
erection iucluded in the Project;
(ii) in accordance with the technical assistance
received from ISPH or other authorized design
institutes of Romania procure the goods and
services required for the Project other than
those referred to in the proceding paragraph
(c); and
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordina-
tion of the implementation of the Project and
for the coordination of the Project-related
activities of the other agencies of Romania.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants Concerning
HATZEG Enterprise
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary for
HATZEG Enterprise:
(a) to operate the facilities established under the Project
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors;
(b) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of HATZEG Enterprise;
(c) to submit the accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
of HATZEG Enterprise for each fiscal year to an independent audit
conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania;
(d) at all times to manage its affairs, plan its future ex-
pansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate engineering, financial and administrative practices and
under experienced and competent management, assisted by qualified
staff in adequate numbers;
(e) to be granted all such rights and interests in land and
all such other rights and powers as are necessary in the manage-
ment or operation of the assets managed or operated by HATZEG
Enterprise;


﻿-9-
(f) at all times to operate and maintain the installations,
equipment and other property managed or operated by HATZEG Enter-
prise, including all structures and earthworks constructed under
the Project, and, as and when required, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative and engineering practices;
(g) without limiting the generality of the preceding para-
graph, to cause the Gura Apelor dam, the Gura Apelor reservoir
banks, and the waterways and earthworks constructed under the
Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with appro-
priate engineering practices, in order to determine whether there
are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the condition
of such structures or earthworks, or in the quality or adequacy
of maintenance or methods of operation of such structures or
earthworks which may endanger the safety of such structures or
earthworks;
(h) except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, not to transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the assets
managed or operated by HATZEG Enterprise, except in the normal
course of the business of HATZEG Enterprise; and
(i) that in any year after 1981 the sum of the annual bene-
fits of HATZEG Enterprise and the annual provision for deprecia-
tion of HATZEG Enterprise shall be at least sufficient to cover
the sum of the equivalent in Lei of the payments of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan which the Borrower
shall make to the Bank that same year; for the purposes of this
paragraph (i), the term "Lei" means Lei in currency of Romania,


﻿- 10 -
and the term "annual benefits" means the difference between gross
revenues and operating and administrative expenses (including ad-
equate provison for maintenance and depreciation) accountable to
any one fiscal year.
The Borrower shall to the extent that it is authorized under
the laws of Romania ensure that HATZEG Enterprise will conduct
its operations in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this Section.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative and financial standards and practices and in accordance
with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropri-
ate accounting practices its operations in respect of HATZEG
Enterprise.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower rep-
resents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on any
of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as secu-
rity for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create
the lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and in the creation of such lien express provision will
be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the
lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carry-
ing out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take
such measures as shall be necessary according to the State Plan
of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the pur-
poses of the Project.
A


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the
request of either party exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the progress of the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, the performance of their respective obli-
gations under the Loan Agreement, the compliance by HATZEG Enter-
prise with the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan,
and the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to ex-
change views with representatives of HATZEG Enterprise with re-
gard to the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, the
resources and expenditures of HATZEG Enterprise and the compli-
ance by HATZEG Enterprise with the requirements set forth in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from HATZEG Enterprise and
the other agencies concerned of Romania, and furnish to the Bank,
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and the material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;


﻿- 14 -
(c)  the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
manufactured from materials or components financed out of such
proceeds, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and
(ii) shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five calendar days
after each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the progress
of the Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the plants, installations, sites, works, buildings
and equipment of HATZEG Enterprise, the factories, installations,
sites and works in Romania where goods required for the Project
are manufactured from materials or components financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the other facilities and construction
sites included in the Project, the records and documents of
HATZEG Enterprise and the other records and documents relating
to the Project;
(e) the Borrower shall for each fiscal year of HATZEG
Enterprise: (i) obtain from HATZEG Enterprise and furnish to
the Bank not later than three months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
of HATZEG Enterprise for such year audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement, and (B) the
report of such audit by the auditors referred to in said Section


﻿- 15 -
4.01(c) of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
HATZEG Enterprise and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request;
(f) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than four months after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower) for such fiscal year
submitted to an independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
and the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the before-mentioned financial state-
ments of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request;
(g) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such financial
and economic information as shall be agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower to enable the Bank to evaluate the benefits of the
Project to the Romanian economy and the position of HATZEG En-
terprise in the Romanian power sector, and shall afford a rea-
sonable opportunity for accredited representatives of the Bank
to exchange views on such information with representatives of
the Romanian power sector; and


﻿- 16 -
(h) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time fur-
nish to each other such additional information as the other party
shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, the operations, resources
and expenditures of HATZEG Enterprise, the benefits derived from
the Project and the general status of *he Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either party of its obligations under the
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date June 30, 1976, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banca de Investitii
Str. Doamnei No. 4
Buchares t, Romania
Telex No:
011288 BINVR
011289 BINVR


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /a/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By /s/ Corneliu Bogdan
Authorized Representative


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Power station              7,000,000         100% of foreign
components and                               expenditures and
related equip-                               100% of local
ment                                         expenditures
ex-factory
(2) Materials and              25,000,000         100% of foreign
supplies                                     expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Civil works                12,000,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures and
100% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(4) Unallocated                 6,000,000
TOTAL      50,000,000
01


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods and services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
t)liance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures incurred
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that


﻿- 22 -
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.


﻿-23-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following.
Part A.   1.   Construction of a clay-cored rock fill dam,
complete with all necessary water control
and safety equipment, about 173 m high, ac-
cross the Riul-Mare valley at the foot of
Mount Retezat, to form the Gura Apelor res-
ervoir.
2.   Construction of an underground power plant
of 335 MW at Retezat, about 18 km from the
dam, and an above-ground 14 MW powerhouse
at Clopotiva.
3.   Construction of a high pressure tunnel, com-
plete with all necessary water control and
safety equipment, from the Gura Apelor res-
ervoir to the Retezat power plant.
4.   Construction of a water collection system,
complete with all necessary water control
and safety equipment, consisting of 25
secondary intakes and a 34 km long tunnel
to bring water from adjacent streams to the
reservoir and the high pressure tunnel.


﻿-24-
5.   Construction of a headpond, complete with all
necessary water control and safety equipment,
for the Ostrovul-Mic power station to reregu-
late the water flows emanating from the
Retezat-Clopotiva power complex.
Part B.   Interconnection of the Retezat and Clopotiva power
stations by 110-kV transmission lines, and inter-
connection of the Retezat power plant and the exist-
ing power system at Barul Mare by 220-kV transmission
lines.
Part C.   Construction of new, and upgrading of existing, access
roads to the installations described in Part A of the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1981                                      855,000
April 1, 1982                                        890,000
October 1, 1982                                      930,000
April 1, 1983                                        970,000
October 1, 1983                                    1,010,000
April 1, 1984                                      1,055,000
October 1, 1984                                    1,095,000
April 1, 1985                                      1,145,000
October 1, 1985                                    1,195,000
April 1, 1986                                      1,245,000
October 1, 1986                                    1,295,000
April 1, 1987                                      1,350,000
October 1, 1987                                    1,410,000
April 1, 1988                                      1,470,000
October 1, 1988                                    1,530,000
April 1, 1989                                      1,595,000
October 1, 1989                                    1,665,000
April 1, 1990                                      1,735,000
October 1, 1990                                    1,810,000
April 1, 1991                                      1,885,000
October 1, 1991                                    1,965,000
April 1, 1992                                      2,050,000
October 1, 1992                                    2,135,000
April 1, 1993                                      2,225,000
October 1, 1993                                    2,320,000
April 1, 1994                                      2,420,000
October 1, 1994                                    2,525,000
April 1, 1995                                      2,630,000
October 1, 1995                                    2,740,000
April 1, 1996                                      2,855,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-26-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                          7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿-27-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Contracts shall be awarded under procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Identical or similar items to be procured for
the Project shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for
the purpose of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items
shall be subject to the concurrence of the Bank. Unless the Bank.
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, there shall be no prequali-
fication of suppliers.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods or the ex-
factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation and comparison of bids; and (iii)
the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.


﻿- 28 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Romania equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured
outside Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on


﻿-29 -
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated
bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ROMENERGO shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the


﻿- 30 -
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a des-
cription of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been opened, ROMENERGO
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respec-
tive amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, ROMENERGO shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and
the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform ROMENERGO and state the reasons for
such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not with-
out the Bank's concurrence materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-31 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
ROMENERGO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of sukh
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ROMENERGO
and state the reasons for such determination.


