Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  08/25/2010 
Report No.:  AC5560
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Chad 
Project ID:  P000527 
Project Name:  Education Sector Reform Project 
Task Team Leader:  Patrick Philippe Ramanantoanina 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 29, 2002 
Estimated Board Date: March 18, 2003 
Managing Unit:  AFTED 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Primary education (50%);Central government administration (25%);Other social 
services (15%);Secondary education (5%);Vocational training (5%) 
Theme:  Education for all (29%);Rural services and infrastructure (29%);Gender 
(14%);HIV/AIDS (14%);Decentralization (14%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
42.35 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
20.88 
 
African Development Bank 
5.46 
 Local 
Communities 
4.15 
 
EC: European Commission 
1.74 
 
FRANCE: French Agency for Development 
12.97 
 
GERMANY: German Technical Assistance Corporation (GTZ) 
2.90 
 
Islamic Development Bank 
13.80 
 UN 
Children's 
Fund 
3.28
65.18 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The  objectives for the restructured project are to (i) improve access and equity in 
primary education and (ii) increase capacity in strategic management and curriculum 
development   
 
3. Project Description 
The components of the restructured project are described below  
 
Component 1: Improving access and equity to education  
 
Page  2
The objective for Component 1 is to increase access for primary education and reduce 
gender and regional disparities by improving the capacity of the existing primary 
education schools and promoting enrollments for girls and children in vulnerable areas. 
In terms of education infrastructure, the project aims at building latrines under 
community approach and wells for primary schools and the provision of furniture to 
classrooms in public primary education and to few new public senior secondary schools. 
For secondary education the project will provide equipment for computer centers, 
sciences laboratories and libraries in new public senior secondary schools.  
 
Finally in terms of improving education equity, the project will finance activities aiming 
at (i) increasing girls' enrollment, (ii) improving teachers' qualification and (iii) 
supporting health and nutrition at school level.  
 
Component 2: Enhancing institutional capacity  
 
Component 2 aims at strengthening some key capacities at the Ministry and local levels 
related to the management of the education sector and the project. It entails (i) the support 
to local school committees, with the piloting of the provision of School Grants in targeted 
primary schools, (ii) the support to the National Curriculum Center, including the 
completion of the construction of the new building, (iii) the strengthening of the 
Education Management Information System (EMIS) and the project management and (iv) 
the strengthening of national capacity for sector analysis and education policy 
development.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be located in in the following regions:  
 
Salamat, Guéra, Kanem, Du Lac, Tandjilé, Mandoul, Batha (East and West), Mayo-
Kebbi (East and West), City of N'Djamena   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Lucienne M. M'Baipor (AFTCS) 
Mr Emeran Serge M. Menang Evouna (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Globally the project is not expected to create any potential large scale impacts able to 
affect the project category as the civil works will only consist of building latrines and 
wells inside school areas. Only existing school lands will be used to build latrines and 
wells, so the project will not support land acquisition. The completion of the construction 
of the National Curriculum Center will not need land acquisition, only local construction 
phase impacts are expected and will be mitigated accordingly.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No indirect and long term impacts are anticipated.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
While the Government has experience dealing with WB safeguards issue, the Ministry of 
Education is not familiar with these policies. For that purpose, capacity building on 
safeguards instruments will be provided to the main stakeholders: the PIU staff, Schools 
Parents Associations and services providers. The Ministry of Environment will also work 
closely with the PIU to ensure the good use of the ESMF measures.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The main stakeholders are:  
 
#
Students  
 
#
All schools Directors and teachers  
 
#
Local NGOs  
 
#
Schools Parents Associations  
 
#
Ministry of education  
 
#
Ministry of Environment  
 
#
Ministry of Social Affairs  
 
#
Services providers in charge to build latrines and wells  
 
A
participative approach was used in the development of the ESMF. Consultation was 
made with key stakeholders in concerned regions, from May to June 2010 at the central, 
regional, district, commune and school levels for education and at the regional and 
commune levels for water and environment. Disclosure of the ESMF was done with the 
publication in the Chadian Newspapers such as Le Progrès N° 2938 July 7, 2010 and in 
other Newspapers such as l'Observateur and le Temps.  
 
Page  4
The environmental and social screening process will use a participative approach by 
consulting the key stakeholders. The final version of the ESMF after approval of the 
Ministry of Environment will be disclosed in respective school board.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/23/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
07/07/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/23/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
Page  5
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Patrick Philippe Ramanantoanina 
08/19/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Emeran Serge M. Menang Evouna 
08/09/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Lucienne M. M'Baipor 
07/21/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Ms Alexandra C. Bezeredi 
08/19/2010 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Christopher J. Thomas 
08/19/2010 
Comments:  This project is transferred to the Sector Management Unit for safeguards 
responsibilities. The ISDS has been reviewed and cleared by the Regional Safeguards Advisor 
Alexandra Bezeredi on 08/13/2010 
