Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H448-BJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 5, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H448-BJ 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 5, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
(a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to twenty million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,100,000) (variously,
 “Grant” and 
“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances  
B.P. 302 
Cotonou 
Republic of Benin 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFINANCES 
5009 MINFINOR 
(229) 21 30 18 51 
Cotonou 
 
5289 CAA 
 
(229) 21 31 53 56 
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Cotonou, Benin, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
By:
 
/s/ 
Soulé 
Mana 
Lawani 
     
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: 
/s/ 
Joseph 
Baah-Dwomoh 
     
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program 
include the following:
 
1. 
To improve the regulatory framework and policy environment for private 
investment and infrastructure under terms satisfactory to the Association 
(a) 
(i) Simplification of the administrative procedures and implementation of tax 
measures so as to facilitate the establishment of a company; (ii) simplification of 
the customs procedures on import and export of goods; (iii) facilitation of the 
conversions
 of living permits (“
permis d’habitations
”) into ownership property 
deeds; (iv) institution of single tax identification for individuals and legal 
entities; (v) adoption of a decree with regards to the development policy in the 
microfinance sector.  
(b) 
Adoption of implementing regulations for the Rural Electrification Fund. 
(c) 
Establishment of a new public-private mixed corporation with the ginning assets 
of SONAPRA and in partnership with a private operator that owns at least thirty 
three percent (33%) of the shares of this new corporation. 
2. 
To pursue progress towards the Millennium Development Goals by improving 
access to basic services and ensuring greater efficiency of public expenditures on human 
capital formation. 
(a) 
Management through local public-private partnership (PPP) arrangements, of at 
least fifteen percent (15%) of the village water supply systems, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
Implementation of the health strategic plan, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, through: (i) the development of at least three community based 
health insurance schemes; (ii) the extension of the benefit of the Fund for the 
Poor in ten (10) additional sanitary zones; and (iii) the provision of gratuity for 
some aspects of health care for women. 
(c) 
Recruitment to fill one thousand three hundred (1,300) new contractual positions 
in primary schools for the school year 2007-2008, in a decentralized manner 
under terms satisfactory to the Association.  
Page  7
6
3. 
To promote better governance through public financial management reforms 
(a) 
Submission of the draft 2009 Budget Law to the National Assembly in line with 
revised MTEF and PRSP priorities. 
(b) 
Implementation of the 2008 budget programs for Priority Sectors. 
(c) 
Conduct of training, under terms satisfactory to the Association, in procurement 
for staff of the Priority Sector ministries. 
(d) 
Submission of the 2003 and 2004 draft central budget audit reports (
Lois de 
Règlement
)
to the Supreme Court. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
20,100,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,100,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
Page  8
7
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
Page  10
9
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
2. 
“Fund for the Poor” means the Beneficiary’s Fund established according to 
Inter-
ministerial Decree 
2005-743/MFE/MSP/CAB/SB dated June 13, 2005. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Millennium Development Goals” means the goals endorsed at the September 2000 
United Nations Millennium General Assembly in New York. 
5. 
“MTEF” means the Recipient’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework for 2008-2011 
dated September 2007. 
6. 
“PRSP” means the Recipient’s 2007-2009 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, dated 
February 26, 2007, as revised as of April 2007. 
7. 
“Priority Sectors” means the following sectors: education, health, road infrastructure, 
water and energy, agriculture and environment, as outlined in the PRSP. 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Page  11
10
letter dated December 12, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient
’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
9. 
“Rural Electrification Fund” means the Recipient’s fund established pursuant to the law 
No. 2006-16 dated March 27, 2007. 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
11. 
“SONAPRA” means the Recipient’s National Cotton Company (
Société Nationale pour 
la Promotion Agricole
)
established pursuant to Decree 91-161 of July 22, 1991 with 
regard to the endorsement of the statute of SONAPRA.  
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  12
11
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  13
12
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
