Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4245 
Operation Name 
Fifth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC-5) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Health (15%); Primary 
education (15%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(15%); Water supply (15%) 
Project ID 
P107498 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF BENIN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 20, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 5, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 23, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
With a per capita income of US$570 (Atlas method, 2007), Benin ranks in the lower income group of 
countries.  The economy heavily relies on the agricultural sector, in particular cotton and transit trade 
with Nigeria. The agricultural sector accounts for about 32 percent of GDP and provides nearly 70 
percent of the country’s workforce while cotton is the major primary export commodity with about 40 
percent of total exports over 2006-07. 
 
The Poverty Reduction Support Credits for Benin are designed to support implementation of the 
Government’s poverty reduction strategy, Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction (SCRP).  This 
second PRSC series aims to improve the regulatory framework and policy environment for private 
investment, including support for completion of cotton sector and infrastructure reforms, as well as to 
support progress toward the MDGs by improving access to basic services and ensuring greater 
efficiency of public expenditures on human capital, and toward better governance, notably through 
public financial management reforms.  This PRSC series is an integral part of the Bank Group’s Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2009-2012 for Benin. The proposed credit builds on the foundation of the 
progress achieved during the previous PRSCs.   
 
Several reasons underpin the choice of policies to be supported by the new PRSC series in Benin.  The 
focus on improving the policy environment for private investment reflects the findings of the Investment 
Climate Assessment and the 2009 Doing Business Report.  These reports highlighted specific 
weaknesses related to the business climate and heightened the authorities’ awareness of the main 
impediments to private sector growth and the need to address them.  In addition, the recent Diagnostic 
Trade Study and Country Economic Memorandum provide additional insights on reforms needed to 
raise Benin’s competitiveness, reduce economic vulnerability and diversify the economy and exports. 
The continued focus on social services reflects Benin’s goals on progress toward the MDGs and the 
need to increase poverty reduction efforts by strengthening the effectiveness and equity of service 
delivery through results-based management and institutional capacity building. The continued focus on 
governance will help improve transparency, accountability and efficiency in budget processes, enable 
decentralized structures to generate resources commensurate with their mandate and enhance medium-
term planning visibility for sectoral program budgets. 
 
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overall objective of the second PRSC 
series is to support implementation of Benin’s Strategy for 
Growth and Poverty Reduction adopted in April 2007 by the Government.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The second PRSC series for Benin, launched in 2007 with PRSC-4, aims to help improve the regulatory 
framework and the policy environment for private sector development, including the completion of the 
reforms in the cotton sector and infrastructure, as well as to support progress toward the MDGs by 
improving service delivery and ensuring greater efficiency of public expenditures and public sector 
governance. Specifically, PRSC-5 would support the private sector development agenda in improving 
the business climate and raising the competitiveness and diversification of productive sectors, 
complemented by components in infrastructure services. As in PRSC-4, the proposed operation would 
support policy reforms, strategic planning and program budgets in the water, health and education 
sectors, and promote progress toward reaching the MDGs.  PRSC-5 would also continue to support 
budget system reforms and public sector governance as a means of reinforcing program budgets, 
fiduciary standards, and results-oriented expenditure management.  This will respond to requests from 
the private sector for greater stability in the regulatory framework, from the Benin public for higher 
quality social services, and from Government for support in building the capacity to master reforms 
designed to increase efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources.  PRSC-5 is 
complemented by more specific investment credits in the areas of competitiveness and growth, energy, 
rural development, decentralized public sector management, environment and forestry.
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The activities supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have significant negative 
environmental impacts. The potential environmental and social effects associated with the proposed 
PRSC-5 are mainly related to the rural development (including cotton), energy, health and education 
sectors. The new series of PRSCs continues to draw on extensive Environment Assessments undertaken 
during the preparation of PRSC 1-3 which took into account the environmental and social analysis 
conducted for other Bank operations as well as the capacity of national and local public sector agencies 
to manage the environmental and social issues facing Benin.  Furthermore, support for Benin’s 
environmental compliance is provided by the environmental management activities in several IDA 
investment projects in the sectors of energy, forestry, cotton/agriculture, and malaria.   
The Ministry of Environment and Natural Protection (MENP), recently separated from the Agriculture 
Ministry, and the Benin Environmental Agency (ABE) share the responsibility and objectives in the 
areas of environmental management and impact assessments.  To this end, small environmental units 
within key line ministries have been established and trained in identifying and implementing measures 
for mitigating any adverse environmental or social impacts of public investment programs. The degree 
of activity of these units varies across sectors.  The Agriculture Ministry still retains important 
environment functions, and the units within the Transport Ministry and Water Directorate have been 
reinforced.  Units in certain other ministries are hindered by lack of training and resources. ABE has 
overall responsibility for ensuring that Environmental Assessments are carried out for all projects in 
accordance with national standards. Sector and regional focal points send monthly reports to ABE who 
elaborates an annual report, which is sent to both sector and regional focal points and shared on line. The 
Annual Progress Reports on the SCRP also monitors progress and provides statistical results on the 
programs to fight environmental degradation.   
Page  3
The reforms in the rural water sector aim at increasing water supply access and equity and improving 
sustainability of the existing facilities (including the piloting of PPP arrangement in small towns).  The 
Ministry of Energy and Water Resources had adopted appropriate measures to deal with the potential 
environment and social issues associated with the planned investments.  It was agreed that these 
measures, including carrying out of mandatory full EIA for small dams, control of wastewater and mud 
around wells, and compliance with the requirements pertaining to the minimum distance between wells 
and latrines, will continue to be enforced by the existing functional EIA unit of the ministry. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source:  
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
$25m 
 Total 
$25m 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Nancy Claire Benjamin 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0189 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: nbenjamin@worldbank.org 
 
