Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 054515 
 
Project Agreement 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
BULGARIA ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated April 11, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 054515 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 2005, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and the Bulgaria Energy Efficiency Fund (BEEF). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between Bulgaria (the Recipient) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to 
the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million Dollars 
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, provided that BEEF agrees to undertake such obligations as are set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and BEEF, the proceeds of the grant provided for under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement will be made available to BEEF on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS BEEF, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) BEEF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical and environmental standards, with due regard to the reduction of greenhouse 
gases through promoting energy efficiency pursuant to the provision of the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as BEEF and the Bank shall otherwise agree, BEEF shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
and the Operations Manual. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
BEEF shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. BEEF shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. BEEF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, BEEF 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) BEEF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank and the Recipient with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the grant. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b)  
BEEF shall promptly inform the Bank and the Recipient of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by 
BEEF of its obligations under this Agreement and/or under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.06. No later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, BEEF shall 
hire independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of BEEF 
 
Section 3.01. BEEF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices with 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. BEEF shall consult with the Bank prior to making any appointment 
to its Management Board. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) BEEF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) BEEF 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses by Project component 
and  disbursement category and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii)    
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon BEEF’s progress reporting obligations 
in this Agreement, BEEF shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring 
Report in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BEEF shall achieve 
financial self-sufficiency by 2010. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
the term “financial self-sufficiency” means total operating  
revenues fully covering total operating expenses; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
the term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and the Fund Manager’s 
fees; and   
 
(iii) 
the term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of BEEF 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates; 
 
(i) 
the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, or 
 
(ii) 
the date five years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b)  
If the Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before 
that date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify 
BEEF of this event.  
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party
’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The 
addresses so specified are: 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For  Bulgaria Energy Efficiency Fund: 
 
5
Veslets Street  
1040 Sofia 
Republic of Bulgaria 
 
Facsimile: 
 
359-2-980-6855 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BEEF may be 
taken or executed by the Executive Director of BEEF or such other person or persons as 
the Chairman of the Management Board shall designate in writing, and BEEF shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/  Oscar de Bruyn Kops 
Authorized Representative 
 
BULGARIA ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUND 
 
By   /s/  Lyulin Radulov 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Implementation Program  
 
Section I.
Overall
1. BEEF 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b)   
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about July 31, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
 
(c)  
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d) 
review, and agree with the Recipient and the Bank, not later than 
September 30, 2009, on the long-term plans for the future operation of BEEF, including 
the use of the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds held at the time of BEEF’s closure. 
 
2. 
BEEF shall maintain a Fund Manager, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, whereby the Fund Manager shall be responsible for:  
 
(a) 
identification and appraisal of Sub-projects eligible for Sub-loan 
financing and Partial Credit Guarantees under the GEF Trust Fund Grant and overall 
management of investments, including monitoring of performance by Beneficiaries; 
 
(b) 
 reviewing proposed Sub-projects to ensure that they meet the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operations Manual; and 
 
(c) 
submitting eligible Sub-projects to BEEF’s Management Board for  
approval. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
3. BEEF 
shall: 
 
(a) 
by no later than October 31 of each year, commencing on 
 
October 31, 2005, until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, a 
draft annual budget of BEEF and adopt the agreed budget prior to December 31 of that 
respective year; 
 
(b) 
not later than December 31 of each year during Project execution, 
commencing on December 31, 2005, furnish to the Bank and the Recipient the Fund 
Manager’s annual business plan and incorporate the Bank’s recommendations prior to 
submitting it to its Management Board for approval; and  
 
(c) 
 review with the Bank all proposals considered by BEEF for Sub-loan 
financing and Partial Credit Guarantees and receive the approval of the Bank prior to its 
entering into any financing agreement during its first year of operation.  
 
Section II
.
Implementation of Part A of the Project
1. 
BEEF shall establish a Guarantee Account for the Partial Credit Guarantee 
Facility in a Commercial Bank and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
BEEF shall manage and use the proceeds of the Guarantee Account in a manner 
consistent with the purposes and objectives of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual, including using the proceeds 
of the Guarantee Account exclusively for making payments in connection with calls on 
guarantees provided to the Commercial Banks issued pursuant to the respective 
Guarantee Agreement. 
 
3. 
BEEF shall act prudently and reasonably in exercising its management 
obligations in respect of the Guarantee Account, including prudently investing the 
proceeds of the Guarantee Account, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall 
deposit income deriving from subrogation recoveries directly into said Guarantee 
Account. 
 
4. 
BEEF shall refund to the Bank any withdrawals or payments from the Guarantee 
Account, including any investment income generated therefrom, at the option of the 
Bank, if: 
 
(a) 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the investment income generated therefrom) 
was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Bank shall have determined, at any time, that the Recipient or BEEF 
shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the 
investment income generated therefrom) were made: (i) in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (ii) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(d) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the 
investment income generated therefrom) were made under a contract in respect of which 
the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or BEEF during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Recipient or BEEF having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation; or 
 
(e) 
the Operations Manual has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project or the attainment of its objectives. 
 
5. 
BEEF shall carry out the following with respect to expenditures funded with 
withdrawals from the Guarantee Account:   
 
(a) 
maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;  
 
(b) 
retain for at least one year after the Project Closing Date, all records 
evidencing such expenditures;  
 
(c) 
enable the Recipient and the Bank to examine such records; and  
 
(d) 
ensure that the audit reports contain a separate opinion by the auditors as 
to whether the records and accounts submitted for the relevant audit, together with the 
procedures and controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
6. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Guarantee 
Account has been duly opened, the amount from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
allocated to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall be deposited into the Guarantee Account. 
 
7. 
BEEF shall execute Guarantee Agreements, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Bank, with Commercial Banks for individual guarantee commitments not to exceed 
the equivalent of $500,000 or such other amount as may be agreed upon by the Bank 
from time to time (the Guarantee Liability Limit). 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
8. 
BEEF shall, during its first year of operation, obtain prior to entering into a 
Guarantee Agreement the Bank’s approval thereof. 
 
9. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Guarantee Account will not be required to cover further guarantee 
commitments to Commercial Banks, BEEF shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount and request a reallocation of such amount. 
 
(b) 
BEEF may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Guarantee Account. 
 
(c) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
paragraph shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
BEEF shall make withdrawals from the Guarantee Account only for payments 
made in accordance with a call on a guarantee issued to a Commercial Bank in 
accordance with a Guarantee Agreement, as a result of a default on a loan by a 
Beneficiary, for which the provider of said loan is unable to secure satisfaction of said 
loan in accordance with the relevant Guarantee Agreement. 
 
11. BEEF 
shall:  
 
(a)   
within thirty (30) days of a guarantee call payment, provide to the 
Recipient and the Bank, a written report indicating the reasons for the default, its 
recovery plan, and its assessment of the probability of recovery of the amounts in default; 
and thereafter implement the recovery plan as so approved by BEEF’s Management 
Board and, if any amounts are determined by BEEF to be irrecoverable, obtain the 
approval of the Recipient and the Bank to write off such amounts; and  
 
(b)   
remit payment into the Guarantee Account if a guarantee call payment is 
deemed by the Recipient or by the Bank to be unwarranted, for the amount of said 
payment. 
 
Section III
.
Implementation of Part B of the Project
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, BEEF shall:  
 
(a) 
after approval by the Management Board of eligible Sub-projects, enter 
into an agreement (the Sub-loan Agreement) with a Beneficiary, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Operations Manual; 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under any Sub-loan 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Sub-loan, and except as the Bank and the Recipient 
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Sub-loan 
Agreement or provision thereof; and 
 
(c) 
enter into commercial co-financing agreements acceptable to the Bank, 
with foreign and local banks, multilateral agencies and private foreign capital, provided, 
however, that during its first year of operation, BEEF shall obtain the prior approval of 
the Bank before entering into any such agreement.  
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. To the extent 
practicable, contracts for goods, works, and supply and installation shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding.
 
2. Commercial 
Practices
.
Goods and works, including supply and installation, for 
Sub-projects under Part A of the Project and those estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
Page  16
-
15
-
equivalent per contract under Part B of the Project, may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operations Manual.  
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.   
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
