Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 054515 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated April 11, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 054515 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the third replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 2002-0005 of December 19, 2002, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (Resolution No. 2002-0005);  
 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 2002-0005, which may include funds carried over from the second 
replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2;  
 
(E) 
 the Project will be carried out by the Bulgaria Energy Efficiency Fund 
(BEEF) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will 
make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available to BEEF, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
BEEF (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank 
dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set 
forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (14), (15), 
(16), (18) and (21); 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01; 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i), (k), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p); 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
 
(x) 
Article XI; and  
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(j) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
 
(vii) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:   
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of 
the Project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BEEF” means the Bulgaria Energy Efficiency Fund established on 
November 17, 2004 pursuant to the Recipient’s Energy Efficiency Act, dated March 5, 
2004; 
 
(b) 
“Beneficiaries” and “Beneficiary” mean collectively the individual 
energy end users and individually the individual energy end user meeting the Eligibility 
Criteria (hereinafter defined) for assistance under the Project; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
“Commercial Bank” means a commercial bank duly established and 
operating in the Republic of Bulgaria which is eligible, in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Operations Manual, to receive partial credit guarantees from the Partial Credit 
Guarantee program for loans provided to Beneficiaries; 
 
(d) 
“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria for sub-loan financing and partial 
credit guarantees with proceeds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant, adopted by BEEF 
(hereinafter defined) and included in the Operations Manual (hereinafter defined), for 
selection of Beneficiaries under the Project; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Fund Manager” means the firm which will conduct the daily operations 
of BEEF and carry out the functions of executive director as defined in the Recipient’s 
Energy Efficiency Act;
 
(g) 
“Guarantee Agreement” means an agreement, the content and terms and 
conditions of which are set forth in the Operations Manual and which includes, without 
limitation, definitions of a guarantee holder, covered risks, default and other applicable 
terms, entered or to be entered into between BEEF and a Commercial Bank pursuant to 
Section II, paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Guarantee Liability Limit” means a limit of a guarantee commitment 
under the respective Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Guarantee Account” means the account to be opened by BEEF for the 
purpose of receiving funds under Part A of the Project; 
 
(j) 
“MEER” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy and Energy 
Resources, or any successor thereto;  
 
(k) 
 “Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by BEEF with 
respect to the implementation of the Project, setting forth rules and regulations for 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and 
 
(l) 
“Partial Credit Guarantee” means any guarantee provided under Part A 
of the Project; 
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means BEEF’s Procurement Plan, dated 
 
December 29, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) months period or longer of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) 
months periods or longer of Project implementation; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(n) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement;  
 
(o) 
“Sub-loan Agreements” means an agreement, the content and terms and 
conditions of which are set forth in the Operations Manual, to be entered into between 
BEEF and the Beneficiary with respect to Part B of the Project; and 
 
(p)  
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and BEEF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the 
Recipient on account of Sub-loans made under Part B of the Project to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund account is requested; (ii) expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services under Parts  C of the Project; and (iii) the funding of a Partial Credit Guarantee  
program under Part A of the Project required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
Section 2.03. The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Euros two special deposit accounts (Special Account MEER and Special 
Account BEEF). Special Account MEER shall be maintained in the Recipient’s National 
Bank. Special Account BEEF shall be maintained in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, provided, 
however, that the Special Account MEER shall only be utilized up to the time BEEF has 
become operational and has met the requirements set forth in paragraph 3 (b) of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end shall: (i) until BEEF 
has become operational, carry out Part C.1 of the Project through MEER; and (ii) without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause BEEF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all 
the obligations of BEEF therein set forth and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance, and shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including provision of facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable BEEF to perform such obligations. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to BEEF as a grant, under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, to be entered into 
between the Recipient and BEEF under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.   
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause BEEF to update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with the guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the 
Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, 
for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Conditions 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, and cause BEEF to maintain, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect their operations and financial conditions and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause BEEF to: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements), including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall cause BEEF to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient shall cause BEEF to: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including, statements of income and related 
statements in respect of the Guarantee Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii)    
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon t
he
Recipient’s Project progress 
reporting obligations set out in this Agreement, the Recipient shall, and shall cause 
BEEF, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately 
funds provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of such funds. 
 
(b) 
The first such financial management report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
financial management report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 4.03. The Rec
ipient shall transfer MEER’s accounting software, capable 
of producing Financial Monitoring Reports in the format required by the Bank, to BEEF 
following the Fund Manager’s appointment.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(a) 
the Operations Manual or BEEF’s statute shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior concurrence of the Bank, and 
such amendment, suspension, abrogation, repeal or waiver affects materially and 
adversely the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived by the Recipient or BEEF, 
respectively, without the prior concurrence of the Bank, and such amendment, 
suspension, abrogation, repeal or waiver affects materially and adversely the ability of the 
Recipient or BEEF to perform any of its respective obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:  
 
(a) 
the Fund Manager has been appointed under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly 
executed by the Recipient and BEEF. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has 
been duly executed by the Recipient and BEEF, and is legally binding upon the Recipient 
and BEEF, in accordance with its terms and that the Project Agreement has been duly 
executed by BEEF and is legally binding upon BEEF in accordance with its terms.  
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder, expected to be within six months after the Closing Date. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Energy and Energy Resources of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources 
 
8
Triaditza Street 
 
1040
Sofia 
 
Republic of Bulgaria 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(359) 2 980 6730 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
By  /s/  Miroslav Sevlievski 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/  Oscar de Bruyn Kops 
 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund 
  
 
Grant Allocated 
% of Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans under Part B  
4,000,000 
100%   
 
of the Project 
 
(2)  Partial Credit Guarantees 
4,500,000 
100%  
 
under Part A of the Project 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
95% for foreign  
 
and training 
 
consultants and 
 
85%
for local  
 
(a)  Fund Management Services 
890,000 
consultants 
 
(b)  Others 
440,000 
 
(4)  Incremental Operating Costs 
170,000 
85% of expenditures 
 
incurred prior to 
 
December 31, 2005; 
 
80%
of expenditures  
 
incurred prior to  
 
December 31, 2006; 
 
75%
of expenditures 
 
incurred prior to 
 
December 31, 2007; 
 
50%
of expenditures  
 
incurred prior to 
 
December 31, 2008; 
 
and 25% of  
 
expenditures prior 
 
to December 31, 2009 
 TOTAL 
10,000,000
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Fund Management Services” means the fees to be paid to the 
Fund Manager pursuant to the contract to be entered into between BEEF and the Fund 
Manager for the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental costs of 
BEEF incurred on account of Project implementation, including its Management Board’s 
costs, communication, translation, travel, rent, utilities, printing, publication, office 
supplies, minor equipment, maintenance and such other expenditures as may be agreed 
upon by the Bank. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments under Categories (1) and (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule until the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank 
that: (i) BEEF has in place financial management arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; 
and (ii) the Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank has been adopted by BEEF. 
 
4.  
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-loans;  
(b) Incremental Operating Costs; and (c) services for consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent, and services for individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
The Recipient, through MEER, shall refund, and/or cause BEEF to refund, when 
applicable, to the Bank, the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds disbursed by the Bank, and the 
investment income generated by the respective Guarantee Agreement from funds disbursed 
under Part A of the Project, in whole or in part, at the Bank’s option, if: 
 
(a) 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the investment income generated therefrom) 
was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Bank shall have determined, at any time, that the Recipient or BEEF 
shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations under Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the 
investment income generated therefrom) were made: (i) in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (ii) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or 
Page  15
-
14
-
(d) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or from the 
investment income generated therefrom) were made under a contract in respect of which 
the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or BEEF during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Recipient or BEEF having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
6. 
Refunds to the Bank of GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds made pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.  Except for such portions thereof for which a refund to the Bank is required 
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Recipient may, after the Closing Date of this 
Project, keep in perpetuity Grant proceeds disbursed to it but only for the purposes of:  
(i) continuing the Partial Credit Guarantee program as set forth in this Agreement, if the 
Project objectives under Part A of the Project have been achieved; or (ii) continuing 
BEEF’s activities as set forth in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, if the Project 
objectives under Part B have been achieved; or (iii) if the Project objectives under Parts 
A
and B have not been achieved, using such funds in accordance with a plan acceptable 
to the Bank and consistent with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emission on 
the territory of the Recipient.  
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the demand for and supply of energy 
efficiency projects and services in the Republic of Bulgaria. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Partial Credit Guarantee
Establishment and operation of a Partial Credit Guarantee program, including 
issuing partial credit guarantees to financial institutions in support of energy efficiency 
Sub-projects and to improve loan terms for Sub-project sponsors. 
 
Part B
:
Investment-Financing
Provision of Sub-loans on a commercial basis to creditworthy Beneficiaries for 
the implementation of Sub-projects. 
 
Part C
:
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance: 
 
1. 
in support of the initial operation of BEEF; and 
 
2. 
in support of the continuous operation of BEEF and capacity building activities 
for initial Sub-projects development, and marketing and dissemination of information, 
including training, workshops and seminars. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Accounts 
 
A. 
Special Account MEER
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (3) (a) and (b) and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation shall be made as 
follows: 
 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall cause MEER 
to furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient, through MEER, shall promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Page  18
-
17
-
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient, through MEER, shall promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 5 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
B.   
Special Account BEEF
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (3) (a) and (b), and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall cause 
BEEF to furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
Page  19
-
18
-
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
cause BEEF to furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
cause BEEF to furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the BEEF out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall cause BEEF, to furnish, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Page  20
-
19
-
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient, through MEER, shall promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient, through MEER, shall promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
