Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB273 
Project Name 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P084831 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[x] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[x] S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 2, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
TBD 
Date of Board Approval 
August 31, 2004 (planned) 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
High Energy Intensity
.
Among the economies in transition, Bulgaria stands out with its 
extremely high energy intensity per unit of GDP.  This is due in part to specific circumstances of 
the country, including over-stimulated electricity demand for such uses as home-heating and 
underdeveloped market for low pressure natural gas.  Mirroring the high energy intensity, the 
environmental impact of Bulgar
ia’s economy is excessively high.  In terms of emissions of the 
global pollutant CO
2
per unit of GDP, Bulgaria is surpassed only by Russia and Ukraine among 
the transition economies.   
 
Underdeveloped Commercial Bank Lending
.
Commercial bank intermediation relative to the 
size of the Bulgarian economy is low, partly as a lingering consequence of the collapse of the 
banking system during the severe economic crisis of 1996-97.  Commercial banks are generally 
not familiar with commercial and technical issues involved in energy efficiency (EE) projects 
and perceive the risks and transaction costs of EE projects as too high.  The combination of 
inadequate bank liquidity and excessively risk-averse bank behavior resulted in the virtual lack 
of commercial market for EE financing.  This is the chief reason why the overwhelming majority 
of EE investments (amounting to about US$400 million) included in the National Energy Saving 
Action Plan (2001-03) have remained unrealized despite potentially high returns on these 
investments.  It is estimated that implementation of these measures would have resulted in 
energy savings amounting to 7.6% of total final energy consumption and an annual CO
2
reduction of 3 million tons. 
 
Barriers to Implementation of EE Investments: Financing and Project Development Gaps.  
The abundance of opportunities for profitable investment in EE, which forms the basis of the 
National Energy Saving Action Plan, is in sharp contrast with the limited number of successful 
projects and the low volume of investments actually undertaken.  The shortage of readily 
available and affordable debt financing is considered a key barrier to the uptake of EE projects.  
Another major constraint is the weak capacity to develop high quality bankable EE projects.  The 
Page  2
2
institutional combination of financial and technical skills needed for the development of a sound 
EE loan portfolio is largely missing in Bulgaria.  A proven track record of commercially 
profitable EE projects is required to convince lenders that a number of risks are only perceived 
and can be managed, and that the initial costs of getting into this specialized business are worth 
incurring or can be successfully mitigated. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of the proposed project is to support a large increase in EE investment in Bulgaria 
through development of a self-sustaining, market-based financing mechanism, the Bulgaria EE 
Fund (BEEF).  The project is focused on the development and implementation of financially 
profitable EE projects, which can provide sustainable and increasing reductions in greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions without relying on public subsidy. 
 
The project will achieve this objective by mitigating the perceived high risk and high transaction 
costs of initial EE investments and overcoming the current barriers to investment through the 
creation of a self-sustaining EE Fund for the development and financing of commercially viable 
EE projects.  The Fund will directly support the implementation of a growing number of EE 
projects on fully commercial terms, demonstrating means to overcome current barriers and make 
profits on such projects.  It would also foster, through both demonstration effects and explicit 
partnership, expanded investment by other market participants, such as commercial banks and 
energy service companies (ESCOs).  Without the intervention of the proposed project to 
overcome the financing barriers on a sustainable basis, it is likely that little progress would be 
made in EE investment in Bulgaria in the years ahead, just as has occurred in the past decade.  
 
3. 
Rationale for GEF Involvement 
 
The sector issues noted above, in particular the extreme energy inefficiency and strong financing 
barriers to EE, along with the Government’s credible commitment to address them, provides a 
compelling case for a GEF-supported contingent finance investment operation in Bulgaria for 
building a sustained market-based capacity to develop and finance EE projects under BEEF. 
 
Demonstrated project ownership/country drivenness
.
The Bulgarian Ministry of Energy and 
Energy Resources (MEER) expressed an interest in obtaining GEF support for the establishment 
of BEEF.  This initiative stemmed from the close cooperation between MEER and the World 
Bank under the 
Energy-Environment
 
Review
 (completed in 2001), the Technical Assistance 
project “National Energy Efficiency Study and Action Plan”, and the recently adopted EE Law,  
which calls for the establishment of a revolving EE Fund to catalyze sustainable financing for EE 
projects.  The proposed project is consistent with the Government’s Environmental Strategy and 
Action Plan (approved in 2001) in which the large potential for EE is identified as a key target 
area for the reduction of GHG emissions.  The Ministry of Environment and Water (MEW) 
strongly supports the.  Formal endorsement of the project concept was received from the GEF 
Focal Point at MEW on March 20, 2003.  
 
Because of the pivotal importance of the EE agenda, the World Bank’s Country Assistance 
Strategy (dated May 2002) included a GEF EE project for FY05.   
Page  3
3
The project is proposed to the GEF under Operational Program No. 5 (OP-5): Removal of 
Barriers to Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation.  The specific strategic priorities 
supported by project in the context of the GEF Business Plan for FY04-06 are: transformation of 
markets for high-volume, commercial, low-GHG products or processes and increased access to 
local sources of financing.  The project focuses on mobilizing the resources of local commercial 
banks and other private financiers by removing actual and perceived barriers to EE investments. 
The bulk of GEF funds under the project would be used in a contingent financing modality to 
leverage commercial financing for EE.     
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed project supports the establishment and operation of BEEF in a public-private 
partnership.  BEEF would combine both technical project development capacity and financial 
structuring capacity into one entity, thereby addressing the current weak capacity to develop 
bankable EE projects.  It  will be designed to be flexible, offering financial products demanded 
by the evolving EE finance market.  The Fund will consist of three components: 
 
·
Partial Credit Guarantees: to share in the credit risk of EE finance transactions.  
·
Loan Financing: to co-finance bankable EE projects on a commercial lending basis. 
·
Technical Assistance: to initially finance on a grant basis a portion of EE project 
development, set-up and operational costs of the Fund. 
Designed as a demand-driven facility, BEEF would make available both loans and partial credit 
guarantees for EE projects.  The Fund Manager is expected to make rational choices about the 
appropriate financing tool based on specific project circumstances and overall project portfolio 
management considerations. 
 
5. 
Cost and Financing (US$ million, Indicative Amounts) 
 
Indicative Costs and Financing Plan 
 
Costs 
Financing Plan 
Amount GEF 
 
GOB 
Bi- and 
Multilateral 
Donors (to 
be 
confirmed)* 
Leveraged
Equity 
Financing 
by Sub-
project 
Borrowers 
Lever-
aged 
Commer-
cial Co-
financing 
Component
Category 
(US$M) 
%
of 
Total 
(US$M) 
%
of 
GEF 
Finan
-cing 
(US$M) (US$M) 
(US$M) (US$M) 
Barrier 
Removal 
31.12 62  4.50  45  1.00 
2.80 
4.06 
 
18.76 
1. Partial 
Risk 
Guarantee  
 
Page  4
4
Barrier 
R
emoval 
16.34 34  4.00  40  0.50 
2.70 
1.78 
7.35 
2.  Loan 
Financing  
 
3.  
T
echnical 
Assistance 
Barrier 
R
emoval 
and 
Capacity 
Building 
2.05 
4 
1.50 
15 
 0.30 
0.25 
0.00  
0.00  
Total Project Costs
49.51 100 10.00 100  1.80 
5.75 
5.84 
26.12 
Total Financing 
Required
49.51**  
100 
 
10.00 
 
100 
1.80  
5.75  
5.84  
26.12  
*
Not all of these resources are expected to be available at project start when the portfolio is relatively small.  
Some co-financing will be mobilized in years 1-3 in line with the build-
up of BEEF’s portfolio.  
**   Includes leveraged co-financing (US$5.84 million in own equity by subproject sponsors and US$26.12 by 
commercial financiers). 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project beneficiary would be BEEF to be established as an independent legal entity.  BEEF 
will be managed by a BEEF is governed by a Board of Directors (Board), which determines, in 
association with key donors, BEEF’s general strategy and policies, decides by majority vote on 
the proposals for project financing/guarantees, appoints the Fund Manager, approves BEEF’s 
annual operational budget, and oversees all BEEF operations.  The Board consists of seven 
members from the public and private sectors as follows: (i) two representatives appointed by the 
Minister of MEER (one from the Energy Efficiency Agency); (ii) a representative appointed by  
MEW; and (iii) four representatives of the private sector with good reputation and professional 
training.  The private sector members will be selected from a wide spectrum of stakeholders  
(including NGOs) in a special meeting to be convened by the Chair of the Board.  The Chairman 
of the Board would be selected by the members on a rotating basis with a mandate of one year.  
 
The Board will hire, under a performance contract, a professional Fund Manager (FM) who will 
be in charge of administering daily activities of BEEF, identifying, evaluating, developing and 
financially structuring projects to be submitted to the Board.  The FM will ensure a sound project 
portfolio in terms sectors and risks.  The FM is to be selected competitively following World 
Bank procurement rules.   
 
The project is designed to have considerable stakeholder involvement, including NGOs, 
municipalities, private sector and relevant public agencies.  During project preparation, most of 
these stakeholders were consulted to seek their views on the objectives and design of BEEF and 
to generate larger public interest in the facility.  In June 2002, the project concept was presented 
to the NGO community in a special workshop.  Further outreach actions, including an investors’ 
workshop, are envisaged during further stages of project preparation and implementation.  
Broad-based participation and public involvement are incorporated in the project design.   
 
Page  5
5
GEF financing of some US$10 million is sought to provide the bulk of the seed capital for BEEF 
(US$8.5 million) and to fund the TA component (US$1.5 million).  On May 19, 2004, the GEF 
Council approved the project as designed for work program inclusion. 
 
As BEEF seeks to make profit, investment financing and partial credit guarantees would be 
provided on commercial terms.  BEEF is designed to attract a substantial amount of commercial 
co-financing, in addition to a minimum of 10% contribution to project costs by the borrowers.  
Contributions from other financiers is being actively sought t
o
increase the Fund’s capitalization 
to a size considered large enough to achieve a sustained market impact.  In accordance with the 
indicative project financing plan (see table above), a total of US$5.50 million in donor support is 
being sought in contributions to BEEF’s seed capital.  Additionally, small TA (US$0.25 million 
equivalent) is expected from EU/PHARE to support capacity building and training activities to 
be defined in detail.  The financing partnerships will be structured as parallel financing, with 
each donor concluding a separate contribution agreement with the responsible agency of the 
GOB for BEEF, MEER, which will be in charge of coordinating the partnership arrangements.  
The nature of these agreements is expected to vary from donor to donor.  For example, the 
Government of Austria, through the Ministry of Finance, has expressed a strong interest in 
contributing US$1.8 million equivalent to BEEF’s seed capital.  The GOB committed to allocate 
US1.8 million equivalent in own contribution to the seed capital.  
 
BEEF resources are expected to be highly leveraged, meaning that the actual investment 
implemented will be a multiple of the initial capitalization.  BEEF will provide very high 
leverage (nearly five times over the first five years and 19 times over 15 years) for GEF funds 
via (i) direct involvement of commercial banks in profitable EE projects under co-financing and 
partial credit guarantee arrangements; (ii) building capacity for EE in the financial and energy 
services sectors; and (iii) the economy-wide demonstration value of financially viable EE 
projects.   
A
Grant Agreement would be signed between the World Bank and the GOB.  MEER would sign 
a
subsidiary Grant Agreement and Project Agreement with BEEF, giving full rights to the latter 
to use the grant proceeds in accordance with grant and implementation agreements with the 
Bank.   
It is expected that the GEF funds will be disbursed over a period of four years and then BEEF 
will administer the funds for about 11 years, after which the private financial sector can fully 
take over financing for EE on a sustainable basis.  The project exit strategy for GEF will be 
agreed upon in year 4 of project implementation.  One possibility is to withdraw or sell the GEF 
“shares” in the BEEF once a set of criteria indicating satisfactory outcome have been met, and 
for those funds to be used by the GOB for mutually agreed GHG mitigation projects that are in 
line with the GEF global objectives. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
BEEF is expected to yield sustainable results and achievement of a nationwide market impact by 
(i) building capacity for EE in the financial sector and energy services industries; (ii) establishing 
and demonstrating the financial profitability of investment in the EE sector; and (iii) directly 
mobilizing substantial commercial financing for EE projects.  The concept of BEEF is based on 
Page  6
6
the principles of commercially viable operation.  After the initial GEF capitalization of the Fund 
is expensed, its further operation will be supported through repayments by the borrowers.  
 
The overarching objective of BEEF is to build a sustained market-based capacity to develop and 
finance EE projects on commercial terms.  Therefore, the long-term success of BEEF will be 
measured by the existence of a competitive self-sustained market for developing and funding EE 
projects after the BEEF guarantee and loan facilities are no longer available to support new 
transactions.  BEEF will have fulfilled its role of introducing FIs to a relatively untapped finance 
market and helping both ESCOs and FIs to develop their capacity to exploit that potential.       
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The World Bank has been involved in the energy sector in Bulgaria through several activities, 
and the design of this project will benefit from the knowledge gained through these activities.  
 
The Bulgaria District Heating (DH) Project is the most recent and the most closely related 
project, which entered the implementation phase in June 2003. 
 
Other Bank-supported operations and activities: 
 
·
Energy and Environment Review (November 2001).  This sector work 
highlighted the importance of addressing issues related to the DH sector, 
especially in the context of energy conservation leading to environmental 
benefits. 
·
DH Strategy (August 2000).  The Bank assisted in the preparation of the strategy 
which is a comprehensive program of the GOB to revive the DH sector involving 
policy and institutional changes. 
·
Sofia City Development Strategy (2001 and 2002).  Through this analytical work, 
the Bank was able to better understand the operations of the municipal enterprises 
and was able to receive feedback from the  public about DH services. 
·
Water Companies Modernization and Restructuring Project (closing date: 
December 31, 2002).
 
Through the DH component of the loan, the Bank’s 
assistance was provided to more than 15 DH companies throughout the country.  
About 6,000 heat-exchanger substations in the country, representing about 25% of 
the total stock, were rehabilitated leading to better demand side management and 
energy savings.   
 
Other (non-Bank) operations and activities: 
 
UNDP-implemented EE Program
.
The UNDP has championed the EE agenda in Bulgaria 
through the Gabrovo pilot project and subsequent development of a network of demonstration 
zones for energy efficient municipalities.  The company EnEffect
 
was established as a UNDP 
project implementation unit funded from a small GEF grant.  EnEffect has developed a number 
Page  7
7
of business plans for bankable EE projects, focusing on street lighting and schools.  At present, 
the UNDP is planning a follow-on proposal (UNDP/GEF Public-Private Partnerships for EE 
Project) to further strengthen local capacity to develop and finance the bankable projects 
originally identified.  In this context, UNDP-GEF has indicated that it would welcome the 
opportunity created by BEEF to finance these projects.  In addition, UNDP-GEF would engage 
with the Bank in discussions regarding the TA component of the proposed project, especially 
concerning capacity building.      
 
The SAVE II Study.  
The “
Study on the Implementation of a Widespread Energy Saving 
Program in Bulgaria
”
(completed in 2001) provided an in-depth review of Bulgaria’s energy 
conservation opportunities.  The Study identified a vast potential for energy saving and contained 
a
long-term program, including more than 80 EE measures in various end-use sectors with 
combined energy savings of 1.7 mtoe/year.  The most promising low-cost energy saving projects 
were included in the three-year (2001-03) 
National Energy Saving Action Plan
.
However, very 
few of these projects have materialized due to lack of financing.   
 
USAID Municipal EE Program.
 
This USAID project provides partial credit guarantees in 
favor of the United Bulgarian Bank (UBB) for small-scale municipal EE projects.  About two 
dozen projects have been funded to date with an average payback time of three years.  Although 
the Program has been successful in demonstrating the possibility of commercial EE financing in 
Bulgaria, it has failed to reach a critical mass for sustainability through developing or catalyzing 
a
large number of additional projects at the national level.  The non-revolving nature of the 
partial credit guarantee facility has been a shortcoming.  Another design problem is the virtual 
monopoly position of UBB in financing projects under the Program, which has kept its interest 
rate and collateral requirements at a high level.  A more efficient approach is to work with 
multiple banks, forcing them to actively compete for bankable EE projects and offer the best 
possible financing terms to project sponsors.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
No significant negative environmental impacts will be caused by the project, which is 
specifically designed to mitigate GHG emissions through energy savings.  Only those projects 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
8
are eligible for BEEF support for which at least half of the financial benefits come from 
measurable energy savings.  Environmental benefits associated with these savings will be 
systematically monitored and reported by BEEF.  Likely subproject candidates are: street 
lighting improvements, installation of heat exchangers and automatic temperature control and 
metering in DH systems, improved thermal insulation of buildings, replacement of network 
pipes, fuel switching, power factor correction, reconstruction of boilers, economizers, steam 
traps and fuel switching.  Typically, the subprojects are expected to be relatively small.  With 
investment costs generally not higher than US$1 million, none of them will have any adverse 
large-scale, significant and/or irreversible environmental impacts. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Project Concept Note 
–
June 9, 2003 
Proposal for project preparation grant (US$300,000) – approved by GEF on July 24, 2003 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (appraisal stage) – approved on June 1, 2004  
Project Appraisal Document (draft) – June 2, 2004 
Draft Legal Agreements – May 14, 2004  
 
11. Contact Information 
 
Contacts: Istvan Dobozi 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Tel: (202) 473-2147 
Fax: (202) 614-1582 
Email: 
Idobozi@worldbank.org
.
For more information, contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Tel:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
