        Bulgarian Energy Efficiency Fund:

         Appendices to Operations Manual




November 2004

TABLE OF CONTENTS

APPENDIX 1 - INITIAL PROJECT PROPOSAL...................................................................................... 3


APPENDIX 2 ­ ANNEXES 1 AND 2 OF THE EPA.................................................................................. 15


APPENDIX 3 ­ THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONSENT PROCESS ........................................................ 22


APPENDIX 4 ­ ENVIRONMENTAL SUMMARY SHEET..................................................................... 27


APPENDIX 5 - INITIAL APPRAISAL FORM.......................................................................................... 30


APPENDIX 6 ­ GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY.................... 35


APPENDIX 7 - DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................................................... 59


APPENDIX 8 - PROJECT APPRAISAL REPORT .................................................................................. 88


APPENDIX 9 - TERM SHEET.................................................................................................................. 100


APPENDIX 10 - ACCEPTANCE LETTER ............................................................................................. 105


APPENDIX 11 - GENERAL FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT............................................................... 107


APPENDIX 12 - PROJECT REALIZATION REPORT......................................................................... 122


APPENDIX 13 - REPORT FORM ON PERFORMANCE STATUS OF LOAN AGREEMENTS..... 134



APPENDIX 14 ­ PROCUREMENT PLAN AND TIMETABLE ........................................................... 140


APPENDIX 15 ­ WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL POLICIES ON ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT............................................................................................................................................. 143




                                                                                                                                                         2

BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




    APPENDIX 1 - INITIAL PROJECT
                                      PROPOSAL




                                                  3

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




           INITIAL PROJECT PROPOSAL

 1 Project Developer

1.1 Name of the Project Developer




1.2 Contact details

    Address:




    Tel:                                 Fax:                     E-mail:


    Contact Person:


    Tel:                                 E-mail:



1.3 Legal status of Project Developer (mark appropriate box):

    [ ] Public Company                             [ ] NGO


    [ ] Private Company                            [ ] Other (specify):




1.4 Project Developer's major activity




                                                                             4

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




1.5 Sector (please tick relevant box(es) and specify):

    [ ] Building


    Specify:


    [ ] Industry


    Specify:


    [ ] Other


    Specify:




 2 Project partners

2.1 Name and contact details

    Name:


    Address:




    Tel:                                           Fax:


    Rationale for involvement:




                                                           5

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




 3 Project Description

3.1 Brief technical description of the project




3.2 Project implementation partners




3.3 Location of the project




3.4 Amount of finance required
    Amount (BGN / US$):

    Total project costs:

    Amount of finance required as percentage of         %
    project costs:




3.5 Other sources of finance (as percentage of total project costs)
    Project Developer's own resources:                  %

    Financial institution:                              %

    Other (please specify):                             %



                                                                       6

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




3.6 Lifetime of the project (specify in years)




3.7 Expected implementation time




3.8 Proposed start of implementation




 4 Improvements/Target results of the project

4.1 Expected energy savings per year

    Expected energy savings per year               As percentage of current energy consumption


    GJ                                             %


    kWh                                            %


    BGN                                            %




4.2 Average energy price of the Project Developer in the last year

    BGN/GJ                                         BGN/kWh




                                                                                            7

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




4.3 Summary of project economics (BGN)

     Year                                         0  1     2      3    4     5      Total


     Project investment


     Energy savings


     Other benefits (incremental revenue)


     Additional reduction in operating and

     maintenance costs


     Additional increase in operating and

     maintenance costs




 5 Environmental Questionnaire

5.1 Regulations/ Notifications required for the Project from public authorities (please
    specify responsible authority)




5.2 Rationale for not contacting regulation authorities (if applicable)




                                                                                         8

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




5.3 Project type specified in accordance with the current legislation (defined by the
    respective authority, please refer to Appendix 2)




5.4 Information submitted under the Environmental Protection Act (please refer to
    Appendix 3)




5.5 Conclusion of the Bulgarian Competent Environmental Authority




5.6 Enclosures:
       1. Signed declaration on information reliability;

       2. Signed declaration on consent to provide information to co-financing partners.

       3. Guidelines to IPP Completion

       4. Correspondence with Environmental Authorities (to be provided by the Project
           Developer);

       5. A copy of the response from the Competent Environmental Authority regarding
           Environmental Impact Assessment (to be provided by the Project Developer);


                                                                                         9

BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




   Declaration on information reliability




Hereby we declare and guarantee that all information provided in this form and any other

documents enclosed herewith is true and accurate, provided that such information is

available. We confirm that we have read and fully understood the contents of the Initial

Project Proposal form.




Name and signature of the legal representative




Date and seal




                                                                                     10

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




        GUIDELINES TO IPP COMPETION

 1 Project Developer

1.1 Name of the Project Developer

    Please specify the full legal name of the entity / developer, which is applying for finance.

1.2 Contact details
    Please specify the location of the Project Developer and the contact person, which should
    have authority to act on behalf of the company to explain details for the project.

1.3 Legal status of the Project Developer
    Please specify the official name of the enterprise / developer, which is included in the
    business licence, entrepreneur's certificate, or company record. If the Project Developer is
    in the process of being registered, these documents should be provided together with the
    receipt by the Court of Registration of the submission of these documents.

1.4 Project Developer's major activity
    Please provide a short description of the Project Developer's major activities and its
    experience with regards to energy efficiency.

1.5 Sector
    Please mark the economic sector and specify details on the sector that the Project
    Developer operates in.

 2 Project partners

2.1 Name and contact details
    Please provide contact details on the project partners and their rationale for involvement in
    the project. Typical project partners may be equipment vendors, ESCOs, technical
    consultants, leasing companies, financial institutions, etc.

 3 Project description

3.1 Brief technical description of the project
    Please specify details of the project and note a few salient points. Provide information on
    the current status of the process / facilities covered under the Project and the proposed
    improvements. Avoid too technical details when describing.




                                                                                               11

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




3.2 Project implementation partners
    Please specify, if different from the Project Developer, the partners and their
    responsibilities for the actual implementation of the project. State the project suppliers and
    describe briefly their function in the project.

3.3 Location of the project
    Please specify the place where the project is expected to be implemented and provide a
    brief description of the facilities.

3.4 Amount of finance required
    Please specify the total amount the Project Developer seeks in order to realize the project.

    Total project costs include estimates of the costs of all raw materials, technology,
    equipment, assets, goods and fees that will be needed in order for the project to be
    implemented and completed.

    Amount of finance required as a percentage of project costs is the ratio between amount of
    finance and total project costs.

3.5 Other sources of finance
    In this section the Project Developer should specify the amount of own resources as
    percentage of total project costs; the amount of finance from banks as percentage of total
    project cost and any other sources. For example: leasing companies, ESCOs, etc.

    Project Developer's own resources reflect the amount of money or capital that the owner of
    the project is likely to invest. Equity investment should exceed 10% to meet the
    requirements of BEEF.

    The sources coming from financial institutions could be in the form of loans, grants and
    any other form of financing offered by them.

3.6 Lifetime of the project

    Please specify the time period (in years) during which the continued operations of the
    project and its benefits will accrue to the Project Developer / entity.

3.7 Expected implementation time

    Please specify the time period (in months) from the beginning of the project to the
    completion of construction / installation and start of operations.

3.8 Proposed start of implementation

    Please specify the proposed start date for implementation, which should be the time when
    money starts being spent on the project (or works begin).




                                                                                                12

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




 4 Improvements/Target results of the project

4.1 Expected energy savings per year
    Please specify the energy savings in gigajoules (for the overall heat use), kWh (for
    electricity usage) and in BGN equivalent.

    Energy savings in BGN: the quantity of energy saved multiplied by the average energy
    prices.

4.2 Average energy price of the Project Developer in the last year
    State the average price of the energy purchased by the Project Developer in the last year.

4.3 Summary of project economics
    Please state:

       · The project investment, being the total cost of the installed equipment;

       · Energy savings, as described in section 4.1;

       · Other incremental revenue as a result of the project and incremental benefits in
            addition to energy savings generated by the investment;

       · Additional reduction in maintenance and operating costs, being the net cost
            reductions as a result of operation and maintainance of the newly installed
            equipment.

       · Additional increase in maintenance and operating costs, being the net additional
            costs as a result of operation and maintainance of the newly installed equipment.

 5 Environmental Questionnaire

5.1 Regulations/ Notifications required for the project from public authorities
    Please specify if the project is subject to any regulations from public authorities. State the
    responsible authority and whether it has been notified about the intent of rhe developer to
    undertake the project. Have the competent environmental authorities responded (in
    writing). Usually these authorities are Ministry of Environment and Water or Regional
    Inspectorate of Environment and Water.

5.2 Rationale for not contacting regulation authorities (if applicable)
    Please specify the reasons for which the developer or the project is not subject to public
    authorities' regulation.




                                                                                                 13

    BEEF: Appendix 1 - Initial Project Proposal




5.3 Project type specified in accordance with the current legislation (defined by the
    respective authority)
    Please specify the project type in accordance with the response of the respective authority,
    which has categorized the project in compliance with the legislation in force. The project
    may fall under the scope of Annex 1 or Annex 2 of the Bulgarian Environmental
    Protection Act. In addition, it could have transboundary impacts or impact on protected
    areas of the National Environmental Network. None of the mentioned types may be
    applicable.

    Appendix 2 provides Annex 1 and 2 of the Environmental Protection Act.

    A copy of the competent environmental authority correspondence should be enclosed to
    this form.

5.4 Information submitted under the Environmental Protection Act
    Please specify whether the project developer has submitted to the Bulgarian Competent
    Environmental Authority the information necessary to make decision whether
    Environmental Impact Assessment (under Art. 92 of EPA) is required in case the project
    falls within the scope of Annex 2 of the Bulgarian Environmental Protection Act. Provide
    information on the stage of the process of issuing an Environmental Impact Assessment.

    The procedure for receiving a Environmental Impact Assessment is described in Appendix
    3.

5.5 Conclusion of the Bulgarian Competent Environmental Authority
    Please specify whether the Bulgarian Competent Environmental Authority has notified the
    project developer of its decision on the need for a Environmental Impact Assessment.
    Please describe the decision of the authority and provide a copy of the response from the
    Competent Environmental Authority.




                                                                                              14

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




APPENDIX 2 ­ ANNEXES 1 AND 2 OF
                                        THE EPA




                                                   15

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




Annex 1 to Item 2 of Article 81 of the EPA


                                  Development Proposals                                       Competence Criteria
                                                                                              RIEW       MOEW
                                              1                                                 2            3
1.  Crude oil refineries (except for the production only of lubricants from crude oil) and
    plants for powdering and liquefying of coal or bituminous schists of and more than
    500 tonnes/day.                                                                                   all

2.  Heat power plants and other combustion plants with capacity 50 MW or higher, and: up to 300       above 300
    - nuclear power plants and other nuclear reactors including disassembly or             MW         MW
      decommissioning of such plants and reactors except for plants for the production
      and processing of the fissionable or concentrated materials, the maximum power
      of which does not exceed 1 KW of constant thermal loading.
3.  (a) Installations for processing of exposed nuclear fuel.                                         all
    (b) installations designed for:                                                                   all
    - production or concentration of nuclear fuel;
    - for processing of exposed nuclear fuel or highly radioactive waste;
    - for final burying of exposed nuclear fuel.
    - only for final burying of radioactive waste;
    ·        -    only for storage, planned for not more than 10 years, of exposed nuclear
      fuel or radioactive waste on a site different from the site on which they are
      produced;
    - or radioactive waste on sites different from the production sites.
4.  Installations for the production of cast iron and steel (primary or secondary melting),           all
    including continuous casting, with capacity of more than 2.5 t/hour.
5.  Ferrous metal foundries with capacity of more than 20 tonnes daily.                    all
6.  Ferrous metal processing installations:                                                           all
    a) hot-rolling mills with capacity of more than 20 tonnes of crude steel per hour
    b) forging shops with hammers with energy of less than 50 kilojoules per hammer,
       where the utilized heat power exceeds 20 MW
    c) protective coatings of molten metal with consumption of more than 2 tonnes of
       crude steel per hour
7.  Installations for:                                                                                all
    a) production of non-ferrous crude metals from ores, concentrated ore or secondary
       raw materials obtained from metals through metallurgical, chemical and
       electrolitic processes;
    b) production of metal by means of melting, including alloying of non-ferrous
       metals (refining, melting in casting shops etc.) with melting capacity of more than
       4 tonnes daily for lead and cadmium and 20 tonnes daily for all other metals.
8.  Installations for surface treatment of metals and plastics by electrolytic or chemical            all
    processes in which the processing bath volume is more than 30 m3
9.  Installations for extraction and processing of asbestos and production of asbestos                all
    containing products.
    a) for asbestos and cement products with annual production of more than 20,000
       tonnes of finished goods;
    b) for friction materials with an annual production or more than 50 tonnes of
       finished goods or for other production processes using asbestos of more than 200
       tonnes annually.




                                                                                                             16

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




                                                1                                                2       3
10. Integral chemical installations for industrial production of chemical substances using           all
    chemical conversion processes where the separate installations are functionally
    connected and which are:
    a) for production of basic organic chemical substances;
    b) for production of basic inorganic chemical substances;
    c) for production of phosphorous, nitrogen and potassium fertilizers (simple and
       combined fertilizers)
    d) for production of basic installation protection substances and biocides
    e) for production of basic pharmaceutical products utilizing chemical or biological
       processes;
    f) for production of explosives;
11. Industrial enterprises for:                                                                      all
    a) production of cellulose from wood or of similar fibrous materials;
    b) production of paper and cardboard with production capacities over 20 tonnes
       daily;
12. Installations for the production of cement clinker in rotary kilns with production               all
    capacities over 500 t. daily and of lime in rotary kilns with capacities over 50 t. daily
    or in other kilns with production capacities over 50 t. daily;
13. Installations for production of glass, including glass fiber, with melting capacities of all
    more than 20. t/day.
14. Installations for melting of mineral substances, including production of mineral         all
    fibers, with melting capacities of more than 20 t/daily;
15. Installations for production of ceramic products by means of baking, in particular       all
    roof tiles, bricks, refractories, tiles, stoneware or porcelain goods, with production
    capacities of more than 75 t/daily and/or kiln capacities of more than 4 m2 and with
    density of arrangement in one kiln higher than 300 kg/m3.
16. Installations for pre-processing (activities such as: washing, bleaching,                all
    mercerization) or dyeing of fibers and/or textile, with capacities of more than 10
    t/daily.
17. Installations for tanning of untreated and raw hides with capacities of more than 12     all
    t/daily of finished goods
18. Installations for surface treatment of substances, objects or products by using organic          all
    solvents, particularly for beetling, stamping, ground-coat application, degreasing,
    water proofing, sizing, painting, cleaning or impregnation, with organic solvent
    consumption rates of more than 150 kg/hour or more than 200 t/annually.
19. a) slaughter houses with production capacities of more than 50 t of carcass meat per     all
       day
    b) treatment and processing of food-stuff production raw materials                       all
    -- animal origin raw materials (except milk) with production capacities of more than
    75 t of finished goods daily
    -- vegetable raw materials with production capacities of more than 300 t of finished
    goods daily (average monthly value)
    c) treatment and processing of milk with input milk quantities of more than 200          all
       t/daily (average annual value)
20. Installations for disposal or utilization of animal carcasses and animal waste with      all
    capacities of more than 10 t/daily.
21. Farms for intensive breeding of fowl and pigs with more than:                            all
    a) 40,000 places for breeding of broilers, 40,000 places for laying hens
    b) 2,000 places for breeding of pigs for meat (more than 30 kg)
    c)       750 places for sows
22. a) construction of high-speed railways and airports with main runways of 2,100 m                 all
       and longer.
    b) construction of new motorways, high-speed city motorways, I, II and III grade                 all
       roads, local roads, open for public use and reconstruction of their sections longer
       than 10 km
23. a) public transport ports capable of receiving vessels of more than 1,350 gross                  all
       tonnage
    b) loading and unloading piers connected to dry land, except for iron piers capable              all
       of receiving vessels heavier than 1,350 gross tons.


                                                                                                         17

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




                                                1                                                  2           3
 24. Installations for neutralization of hazardous waste by incineration or chemical                     all
     treatment or hazardous waste disposal sites within the meaning of Item 4 of §1 of
     the Supplementary Provisions of the Limitation of the Harmful Impact of Waste on
     the Environment Act
 25. Installations for neutralization of hazardous waste by incineration or by chemical                  all
     treatment with capacities of more than 100 tonnes daily.
 26. Installations for household waste treatment.                                            all
 27. Extraction of ground waters or artificial circulation of ground waters with an annual               all
     volume of extracted or circulated water equivalent to or in excess of 10 million cubic
     meters.
 28. Activities for transferring of water resources between river basins for satisfaction of             all
     the insufficiency in water use where the volume of transferred water exceeds 100
     million cubic meters annually.
 29. In all other cases the activities of transferring water quantities between river basins             all
     where the average annual flow of the basin (averaged over many years) from which
     water is transferred is more than 2,000 million cubic meters annually.
     In both cases the transferring of drinking water along pipelines is excluded.
 30. Waste water treatment plants with capacities of more than 150,000 inhabitants                       all
     equivalent.
 31. Extraction of oil or natural gas for commercial purposes at quantities of more than                 all
     500 tonnes daily for oil or more than 500,000 m3 daily for natural gas.
 32. Water reservoirs or other facilities designed for containment or storage of water                   all
     where the level or additional quantity of the water contained or restored exceeds 10
     million cubic meters.
 33. Pipelines for transportation of gas, oil or chemical substances, more than 800 mm in    all
     diameter and more than 40 km long.
 34. Facilities for storage of 200,000 tonnes or more of oil, oil products or chemical                   All
     products.
 35. Construction of above-ground pipelines with voltage of 220 kV and higher and more all
     than 15 km long.
 36. Quarries and open-cast mines for extraction of raw materials with areas of more than                All
     25 hectares or extraction of peat with areas of more than 150 hectares.
     Extraction of inert materials from:
                                                                                             up to 30    more than 30
      - rivers of more than 5,000 m3/annually                                                thou.       thou.
                                                                                             m3/annually m3/annually


      - water bodies of more than 10,000 m3/annually                                                     more than
                                                                                             up to 100   100 thou.
                                                                                                         m3/annually
      - seas                                                                                 thou.
                                                                                             m3/annually
 37. Tourism and recreation
     (a)      holiday centers, hotel complexes in non-urban areas with total utilized areas  up to 10 ha over 10 ha
     of more than 1 ha and with facilities
     (b) ski runs, ski tows, rope lifts with total lengths of more than 1,000 m and with                 all
     facilities
     I sports, recreation or attraction complexes in non-urban locations or total area above up to 10 ha over 10 ha
     2 ha


Note: To be presumed disassembled or closed, the radioactive fuel and other radioactive elements should be
completely removed from the nuclear power plants and other atomic reactors.




                                                                                                               18

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




Annex 2 to Item 2 of Article 81 of the EPA


Development Proposals
1. Agriculture, forestry, water economy
   a) agricultural land consolidation
   b) utilization of uncultivated or semi-fallow lands for intensive agricultural purposes
   c) soil improvement measures in agriculture, inclusive of drip irrigation and draining of lands
   d) primary afforestation and de-afforestation for the land-use changing purposes
   e) intensive animal breeding (projects, not included in Annex 1)
   f) intensive farming of fish
   g) taking of land from the sea
   h) river corrections
2. Mining
   a. quarries, open mines and extraction of peat (not included in Annex 1)
   b. mine pits
   c. extraction of inert materials from rivers or seas (not included in Annex 1)
   d. deep drilling
       -   geothermal
       -   for storage of nuclear waste
       -   for water supply
       except of those for geologic base stability studies
   e. extraction of coil, oil, natural gas, ores and bituminous schist
3. Power
   a. industrial installations for generation of power, steam and hot water (not included in Annex 1)
   b. industrial facilities for transferring of gas, steam and hot water, transferring of electricity along
       above-ground cables (not included in Annex 1)
   c. above-ground gas storage facilities
   d. underground combustible gas storage facilities
   e. above-ground fuel storage facilities
   f. industrial briquetting of coal
   g. installations for processing and storage of radioactive waste (not included in Annex 1)
   h. hydro-power plants
   h. wind driven electricity generation facilities
4. Production and processing of metals
   (a) installations for production of cast iron and steel (primary or secondary melting), including
        continuous casting (not included in Annex 1).
   (b) ferrous metal processing installations: (not included in Annex 1)
       - hot rolling
       - press-forging
       - molten metal protective coatings
   I   ferrous metal foundries (not included in Annex 1)
   (d) non-ferrous metal melting installations, including for production of alloys (except for noble
       metals), drawing, forming and rolling of products from non-ferrous metals and alloys (not included
       in Annex 1)
   (e) installations for surface treatment of metals and plastics by electrolytic or chemical processes (not
       included in Annex 1)
   (f) production and assembly of motor vehicles and production of automotive engines
   (g) shipyards

                                                                                                          19

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




Development Proposals
    (h) production and repair of airplanes
    (i) production of railroad facilities
    (k) excavation works involving explosives
    (l) ore roasting and sintering installations
5. Mineral industry
    a) coke ovens (dry distilling of coal)
    b) cement production installations (not included in Annex 1)
    c) asbestos and asbestos goods production installations (not included in Annex 1)
    d) installations for production of glass and glass fiber (not included in Annex 1)
    e) installations for melting of minerals including production of mineral fibers (not included in Annex
        1)
    f) installations for production of ceramic goods through baking, incl. roof tiles, bricks, refractory
        bricks, tiles, ceramic and porcelain vessels (not included in Annex 1)
6. Chemical industry (not included in Annex 1)
    a) installations for production of chemicals and intermediary products
    b) installations for production of pesticides and pharmaceutical products, paints and varnishes,
        elastomers and peroxides
    c) facilities for storage of oil, oil products and chemical substances
7. Food industry (not included in Annex 1)
    a) production of plant and animal oils and fats
    b) canning of plant and animal products
    c) production of dairy products
    d) production of beer and malt
    e) production of sweets and syrups
    f) slaughterhouses
    g) industrial production of starch
    h) production of fish meal and cod-liver oil
    h) production of sugar
8. Textile, leather, wood processing and paper industry
    a) industrial installations for production of paper and cardboard (not included in Annex 1)
    b) installations for primary processing (operations such as washing, bleaching, mercerization etc.) or
        dyeing of fibers or textile (not included in Annex 1)
    c) processing (tanning) of leather (not included in Annex 1)
    d) installations for production and processing of cellulose
9. Rubber industry Production and processing of products based on elastomers
10. Infrastructure projects
    a) industrial zone development plans
    b) development installations for public construction, including construction of malls and parking lots
    c) construction of railway lines and facilities for combined transportation and mixed terminals (not
        included in Annex 1)
    d) construction of airports (not included in Annex 1)
    e) construction of roads (not included in Annex 1)
    f) construction of ports and port facilities, including trawler ports (not included in Annex 1)
    g) construction of inland waterways (not included in Annex 1), sewer facilities and emergency flood
        control facilities
    h) water reservoirs and other facilities for containment and storage of water for long periods of time
        (not included in Annex 1)
    i) tramway lines, underground and above-ground railways, overhead lines for transportation
        exclusively or mainly of passengers


                                                                                                         20

BEEF: Appendix 2 - Annexes 1 and 2 of the EPA




Development Proposals
    j) oil pipelines and gas pipelines (not included in Annex 1)
    k) aqueducts
    l) coastal erosion control activities and coastal facilities changing the coastline, such as construction
        of dikes, breakwaters and other protective facilities, except for repairs and reconstruction of such
        facilities
    m) extraction of ground water and artificial circulation of ground water (not included in Annex 1)
    n) projects for transferring of water resources between river basins (not included in Annex 1)
11. Other investment proposals
    a) race tracks and motor vehicles testing tracks
    b) waste disposal installations (not included in Annex 1)
    c) waste water treatment plants (not included in Annex 1)
    d) treatment plant sludge disposal sites
    e) metal scrap storage, including from motor vehicles
    f) facilities for testing of engines, turbines or reactors
    g) production of artificial mineral fibers (not included in Annex 1)
    h) facilities for neutralization or destruction of explosive substances
    i) installations for disposal or utilization of animal carcasses and animal waste (not included in Annex
        1)
    j) pesticide packaging facilities
    k) pesticide storage facilities
12. Tourism and recreation
    a) ski runs, ski tows, lifts and their facilities (not included in Annex 1)
    b) sea facilities
    c) holiday centers, hotel complexes in non-urban areas and accompanying facilities (not included in
       Annex 1)
    d) permanent camping sites and caravan parking sites
    e) special purpose parks




                                                                                                          21

BEEF: Appendix 3 ­ The Environmental Consent Process




                        APPENDIX 3 ­ THE
        ENVIRONMENTAL CONSENT
                                     PROCESS




                                                        22

BEEF: Appendix 3 ­ The Environmental Consent Process




Environmental consent process


       Steps                                                           Actions                                                    Decision            Result
                                         Developer                                    Competent Authority (CA)
1. Notification     · Notifies the CA and the mayor(s) of the              · Decides if the Investment Proposal falls within Out of Annex 1     Project
                        municipality(s), region(s) about the intent to        the scope of Annex 1 or Annex 2 of the EPA or  and 2 and NEN      implementation
                        undertake the project at the feasibility stage;       is out, but may have impact on protected areas (EIA not required) approved
                    · Notifies affected public through the mass               from the NEN.                                  Annex I or NEN     Project not eligible
                        media and/or another appropriate manner.           · Within 14 days notifies the Applicant for the   project            for BEEF
                                                                              necessary actions;                             (EIA required)     financing
                                                                                                                             Annex II project   Applicant takes
                                                                                                                                                Step 2
2. Screening        Submits Request for screening and the Information      · Decides, within one month of Request            EIA not required   Project
                    for screening, given below*, to the CA                    submission, if EIA is required;                                   implementation
                                                                           · Within 3 days after the date of the decision,                      approved
                                                                              submit the decision to the Applicant, announce EIA required       Applicant takes
                                                                              the motives for the decision and informs the                      Step 3
                                                                              municipality(s);
3. Scoping &        · Assigns preparation of ToR for the scope of
preparation of EIS      EIA;
                    · Carries out consultations with CA, specialised
                        institutions and representatives of the affected
                        public and reflects results in the ToR;
                    · Assigns preparation of EIS to registered
                        experts;
                    · Submits the EIS (paper and electronic copy),
                        the TOR and the receipt for paid fee to the CA;




                                                                                                                                                         23

BEEF: Appendix 3 ­ The Environmental Consent Process




      Steps                                                        Actions                                                     Decision         Result
                                       Developer                                 Competent Authority (CA)
4. EIS assessment                                                      · Assesses the quality of the EIA report within    Positive        Applicant takes
                                                                          14 days after the submission;                                   Step 5.
                                                                       · Notifies the Applicant of the assessment result; Negative        CA returns the EIS
                                                                                                                                          for revision and
                                                                                                                                          determines
                                                                                                                                          deadline for
                                                                                                                                          submission of the
                                                                                                                                          revised report
6. EIA Decision                                                        · Takes decision on the EIA within 3 months        Positive        Project
                                                                          after the public hearing;                                       implementation
                                                                       · Submits the decision to the Applicant within 7                   approved
                                                                          days, and announces it through the central mass Negative        Project
                                                                          media and/or another appropriate manner.                        implementation
                                                                                                                                          disapproved
                                                                                                                                          Not eligible
7. Appeal           The persons concerned may appeal against the
                    decision according to the procedure established by
                    the Administrative Procedure Act within fourteen
                    days after announcement of the decision.




                                                                                                                                                    24

 BEEF: Appendix 3 ­ The Environmental Consent Process




 *Information for screening ­ Annex 2 of the EIA Regulation
 I Contact Details of the Investor:
    1. Name, personal number, home address, nationality of the investor as a physical
       person, company address and company number as a juridical person;
    2. Precise postal address;
    3. Telephone, fax and e-mail;
    4. Contact person.
 II Characteristics of the investment proposal:
     1. Brief description of the investment proposal;
     2. Justification of the necessity for the investment proposal;
     3. The relationship with other existing and approved by development or other plan
         activities;
     4. Detailed information about alternatives being considered;
     5. A plan (drawing) showing the boundary of the development including any land
         required temporarily during construction;
     6. Description of the main processes including size, capacity, throughput, input and
         output;
     7. Any new access arrangements or changes to existing road layout;
     8. A work programme for construction, operation and commissioning phases, and
         restoration and after-use where appropriate;
     9. Proposed construction methods;
     10. Resources used in construction and operation (materials, water, energy, etc.);
     11. Wastes expected to be generated - types, quantities and ways of treatment;
     12. Information about mitigating measures being considered;
     13. Other activities which may be required as a consequence of the investment proposal
         (e.g. new roads, extraction of aggregate, provision of new water supply, generation
         or transmission of power, increased housing and sewage disposal);
     14. Details of any other permits required for the investment proposal.
III Location of the Investment proposal:
    1. Layout, maps and photographs showing the boundaries of the investment proposal
       relative to surrounding physical, natural and man-made features, as well as of closely
       located elements of the NEN;
    2. Existing land-users on and adjacent to the site and any future planned land users;
    3. Zoning or land-use in accordance with approved plans;
    4. Sensitive areas, incl. sensitive zones, vulnerable areas, protected areas, sanitary-
       hygiene zones etc.; National Environmental Network
    5. Details of any alternative locations, which have been considered.




                                                                                          25

BEEF: Appendix 3 ­ The Environmental Consent Process




IV Characteristics of the Potential Impact:
  1. Impacts on people and their health, fauna and flora, soils, land use, material assets,
     air quality, atmosphere, waters, soils, earth bowels, landscape, natural sites, mineral
     diversity, biological diversity and its elements and protected areas of single and
     group cultural monuments, as well as expected impact from natural and human
     substances and processes, different types of wastes and their locations, risky energy
     sources ­ noise, vibration and radiation, as well as some genetically modified
     organisms;
  2. Impact on the elements of the National environmental network, including closely
     located to the site of the investment proposal.
  3. Nature of the impacts (i.e. direct, indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, medium and
     long-term, permanent and temporary, positive and negative);
  4. Extent of the impact - geographical area, size of the affected population; settlements
     (name, type ­ town, village, resort, number of inhabitants etc.);
  5. Probability of the impact;
  6. Duration, frequency and reversibility of the impact;
  7. Mitigation incorporated into the investment proposal design to reduce, avoid or
     offset significant adverse impacts;
  8. Transfrontier nature of the impact.




                                                                                         26

BEEF: Appendix 4 ­ Environmental Summary Sheet




   APPENDIX 4 ­ ENVIRONMENTAL
                        SUMMARY SHEET




                                                  27

BEEF: Appendix 4 ­ Environmental Summary Sheet




                                  Environmental Summary Sheet (ESS)

 For a Project Proposed for Financing from the Bulgaria Energy Efficiency Fund (BEEF)


                        Note: for the purposes of this ESS, "Project" means a subproject of BEEF


1           Section I ­ Basic Information
Date ESS Prepared:
A. Basic Project Data
I.A.1. Project Statistics
PROJECT LOCATION:                                                PROJECT ID:



PROJECT NAME:                                                    PROJECT DEVELOPER/INVESTOR:

APPRAISAL DATE:
DATE OF SUBMISSION OF PROJECT                                    PROPOSED BEEF AMOUNT (US$):
PROPOSAL TO BEEF FUND
MANAGER:
COMPETENT ENVIRONMENTAL                                          ECONOMIC SECTOR/TYPE OF
AUTHORITY:                                                       PROJECT:

I.A.2. Project Objectives:

I.A.3. Project Description:

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical

natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)


B. Environmental Classification under Bulgarian Environmental Protection Act:
 Annex 1 [ ]
 Annex 2 [ ]
 Environmental Impact Assessment required? Yes [ ] No [ ]




                                                                                                                           28

BEEF: Appendix 4 ­ Environmental Summary Sheet




Section II ­ Key Environmental Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Environmental Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not
available, describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.A.1. Describe any environmental issues and impacts associated with the proposed
Project. Identify and describe any potential large-scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. Make reference to all
relevant documents of the Bulgarian Environmental Impact Assessment.




II.A.2. Describe arrangements for the project developer to address environmental issues.
Make reference to all relevant documents developed to comply with the Bulgarian Environmental Impact Assessment

procedures. Include also references to permits/licenses for the Project (e.g., building permit) obtained from other
authorities.




II.A.3. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
public discussion of environmental impacts, with an emphasis on potentially affected
people.




B. Public Discussion of the Project, including its environmental impact (based on the results of the
EIA report if applicable)

                                         Expected Date / Actual Date



If public discussion of any of the above is not expected, please explain why.


Signed by:

Environmental Specialist of BEEF                                                   Date:

Fund Manager/BEEF Executive Director :                                             Date:




                                                                                                                      29

BEEF: Appendix 5 ­ Initial Appraisal Form




 APPENDIX 5 - INITIAL APPRAISAL
                                         FORM




                                                 30

    BEEF: Appendix 5 ­ Initial Appraisal Form




                INITIALAPPRAISAL FORM

    Date:                  Project No:                  Number of enclosures:



 1 Eligibility of the Project Developer

1.1 Legal Status

    [ ] Public Company                            [ ] NGO


    [ ] Private Company (specify AD, OOD,         [ ] Other(specify):

    KD, ET, SD)




1.2 Details of the Project Developer

    Name:


    Address:




    Tel:                                 Fax:                    E-mail:


    Contact Person:


    Tel:                                 E-mail:




                                                                                 31

    BEEF: Appendix 5 ­ Initial Appraisal Form




1.3 Partners in the project

    Name:


    Address:




    Tel:                                         Fax:


    Contact person:


    Tel:                                         E- mail:


    Rationale for involvement:




                                                             32

  BEEF: Appendix 5 ­ Initial Appraisal Form




2 Eligibility of the Project

  Eligibility Criteria                                                       Yes No


  Project investment between US$ 50,000 and US$ 2,000,000


  Payback period between 3 and 5 years


  Energy savings are at least 50% of the saving achieved as a result of the

  project


  Net Present Value (NPV) of the project is positive


  Equity participation of the project company is at least 10% of the project

  investment


  The Project is in compliance with Bulgarian Environmental legislation and

  all environmental permits have been received




                                                                                  33

  BEEF: Appendix 5 ­ Initial Appraisal Form




3 Expert Project Coordinator

  Name:



  Recommendation on whether to continue with project development:

       YES                  NO

 Rationale for recommendation (please specify the grounds for recommendation):




  Approval of the project for further consideration:




  Name and signature of the Executive Director




  Date




                                                                                 34

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




  APPENDIX 6 ­ GREENHOUSE GAS
             EMISSIONS ASSESSMENT
                           METHODOLOGY




                                                   35

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment Methodology


1. Overview
The Project Developer shall produce a separate report related to the assessment of
greenhouse gas emissions and energy savings. The Project Developer should follow the
guidelines as set out in this methodology.

The methodology outlined in this section should be used to estimate the emissions
reductions from projects applying for support from BEEF. This methodology has been
based around that provided in the IPCC methodology. It should be noted that if the Project
Developers are seeking to trade any emissions savings from the project this should be
discussed with the Fund Manager as the methodologies underpinning such transactions and
verification procedures will be acceptable for the purposes of BEEF. A project's
greenhouse gas emissions assessment shall be based on the consumption of energy or fuels
and the direct emissions of non-combustion related greenhouse gases (if applicable).

Default emissions factors by fuel type have been provided in this methodology, these
should be used unless the Project Developer has developed project specific bespoke
emissions factors following the methodologies set out by IPCC or as outlined in the World
Bank Greenhouse Gas Assessment Handbook (Paper No. 064, Chapter 3, September
1998).

The Energy savings/greenhouse gas emissions reduction calculations shall be based on the
following steps:

    - Step 1 ­ Define the Baseline and Project (including definition of the project
        boundary and key influences);

    - Step 2 ­ Estimate fuel/electricity consumption and non-combustion related
        greenhouse gas emissions in original units;

    - Step 3 ­ Convert to a common energy unit;

    - Step 4 ­ Multiply by greenhouse gas emissions factors to calculate the carbon
        dioxide value;

    - Step 5 ­ Calculate greenhouse gas emissions reductions;

    - Step 6 ­ Calculate energy savings.

When completing the greenhouse gas emissions assessment there are a number of concepts
that the Project Developer should consider:

    - Comparability ­ emissions projections should be comparable between their
        calculated carbon emissions factors for the baseline scenario and for the project on


                                                                                           36

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




       the one hand and for the calculated baseline carbon emission factors for similar
       projects supported by BEEF. To enhance comparability the Project Developers
       should define a distinct project boundary that is comparable between both the
       baseline and the project. For example, where the project is a process change the
       project boundary should include the process output which should be the same for
       the project as established in the baseline scenario (i.e. number of customers, units
       produced, light bulbs lit etc.). Where a project displaces an alternative option with
       greater greenhouse gas intensity the project boundary should include comparable
       elements (i.e. number of customers/homes heated or lit etc.). The Project
       Developer should follow the guidance provided in this document and by the Fund
       Manager.

  - Consistency ­ the monitoring plan should, in addition to monitoring the sources of
       greenhouse gas emissions, monitor the same key influences identified during this
       greenhouse gas assessment. This will allow for a consistent review of the projects
       performance over time. The methods and measurements defined under the baseline
       estimates should therefore be carried forward to the monitoring plan.

  - Practicability ­ approaches adopted should be based on the methodology set out in
       this document and should remain simple, transparent and open.

  - Reliability ­ for the estimation of emissions reductions from projects the most
       likely development shall be chosen for the baseline scenario. The baseline estimate
       should be agreed and approved by the Fund Manager and should follow the
       guidance as set out below.

  - Transparency ­ assumptions, calculations, references and methodologies used for
       baseline setting and for estimation of emission reductions from projects shall be
       clearly explained and described to facilitate replication and assessment. Sources of
       all data should be public and explicitly mentioned to allow checking. If non-public
       data is used this will require justification/demonstration to the Fund Manager.

  - Validity of the carbon emissions factor ­ the Project Developer should use the
       carbon emissions factors as set out in this guidance unless, an approved
       methodology is used (outlined above) to derive bespoke emissions factors. If
       bespoke emissions factors are derived the Project Developer should discuss this
       with the Fund Manager providing details of the methodology, data and calculations
       in order for them to be approved. Emissions factors selected for the baseline
       assessment shall then apply to the project for its duration, unless substantial change
       to the project occurs that, upon agreement of the Fund Manager, requires the
       emissions factors to be re-assessed.




                                                                                           37

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




2. Step 1 ­ Baseline and Project Definition
The purpose of a baseline is to provide a transparent picture of what would be emitted
without the project against which an estimate of project emissions can be compared to
provide an assessment of emission reductions. A baseline scenario is not just a
continuation of the current situation, it needs to account for developments that would have
occurred under a business as usual situation.

The baseline should be defined in such as way that it provides the Fund Manager with a
complete understanding of the assessment and calculation process. A baseline scenario
should therefore:

   - describe the greenhouse gas emissions without the implementation of the project
       including description and justification of all assumptions and calculations as well as
       the underlying data and references;

   - describe the project and the factors causing and influencing greenhouse gas
       emissions (reductions) of the project, including a description and justification of all
       assumptions and calculations;

   - define the project boundaries including the assumptions and method used;

   - present the emissions reduction calculation in a clear and reproducible manner in
       line with the guidance provided in this document.

The Project Developer should note that the current situation (namely production, delivery
and consumption patterns) provide a starting point for a baseline and reference points for
monitoring activities. Technical information on the current situation (including operational
mode) are therefore required as an integral aspect of the baseline.

2.1.    Greenhouse Gas Sources and Project Boundaries
As mentioned above it is important for the calculation of emissions reductions that the
baseline and the project are directly comparable and based on the same assumptions. The
establishment of a distinct project boundary is the critical first step in assessing the
emissions reduction potential of a project. The project boundary should encompass all
anthropogenic emissions by sources of greenhouse gases under the control of the project
participants that are significant and reasonably attributable to the project.

There are, however, many projects that emit little or no greenhouse gases but displace
operations that do. The purpose of a project boundary is to make a comparison of
emissions in the baseline situation and the emissions in the project situation. The project
boundaries should be set in a way that they contain all relevant emission effects that can
either be controlled or influenced by the project, and that are reasonably attributable to the



                                                                                            38

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




project. It is suggested that the Project Developer complete the following and include it
with the submissions to the Fund Manager:

    - produce flowcharts that describe visually the key components in the current system
       that are influenced by the project;

    - list all the sources of emissions that are direct, indirect, on-site and off-site;

   - determine which emissions are included in the project boundary.

2.1.1. Flowcharts
The Project Developer should make a flowchart describing which components of the
current system are influenced by the project. If the project is a new site, the Project
Developer should produce a flowchart of the production facility/facilities that currently
meet the same demand in Bulgaria.

The Project Developer should then make a flowchart of the project, describing which
components are introduced by the project and to which components they are attached.

2.1.2. Direct and Indirect Emissions ­ Current Situation
The Project Developer should list all the on-site emissions sources in the project and the
current situations. This includes, for example:

    - emissions from fuel combustion and process emissions on the site of the project;

    - emissions from other nearby plants that might be increased or reduced by the
       project;

    - methane emissions from landfill sites.

The Project Developer should then list all the relevant off-site emissions sources in the
project and in the current situations. This includes at least:

    - emissions from the production, transport and distribution of primary energy (fuels)
       used for the project and baseline situation;

    - emissions from the production, transport and distribution of secondary energy
       (power and electricity) used for the project and baseline situation;

    - emissions from the power produced in the baseline situation that is displaced by the
       project;

    - emissions in a similar plant if there is a possibility that the emissions amount might
       change due to a load shift caused by the project;



                                                                                          39

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




    - emissions during construction of the project.

It should be noted that at this stage the emissions do not have to be quantified, what is
being requested is a list of the emissions sources in baseline and project situations.

For both the baseline and project scenarios all Kyoto Protocol greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4,
N2O, SF6, HFCs and PFCs) should be separately listed in tables similar to Table A-1
below. However, it should be noted that in a typical energy efficiency project the main
greenhouse gas considered is CO2 and possibly CH4. The other greenhouse gases, while
included for the purposes of completeness, would be rarely relevant and therefore subject
to consideration.

Table A-1: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sources
List the greenhouse gas emission sources in the project and baseline. Provide a brief description and
determination of significance of emissions sources (particularly non-CO2 sources)
Direct on-site emissions



Direct off-site emissions



Indirect on-site emissions



Indirect off-site emissions




In completing the table outlined above the Project Developer should determine if the
emissions are direct or indirect. Direct emissions are under direct influence and control of
the Project Developer, indirect emissions are not. Indirect effects are usually referred to as
leakages, because they are considered to occur outside the project boundary (see below).

A situation where the project does directly influence the off-site emissions occurs if the
project leads to an increase or decrease of emissions from the electricity grid, because it
displaces electricity from other power producers.

An example of a project's indirect emissions may be where the existence of the project
leads to a change in the demand for the services that are provided by the project, for
example, because the price of a product is increased or reduced. This could lead to a
country-wide increase or reduction in demand for a product or a shift to a cheaper variety.




                                                                                                      40

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




2.1.3. Project Boundaries
The Project Developer should make a selection of which emissions are included in the
project boundary. In general, excluded emissions can be:

    - indirect emissions;

    - emissions from production, transport and distribution of primary fuels like oil, coal,
         natural gas, as they are outside control and measuring capacity of the Project
         Developer;

    - emissions that are non-significant e.g. account for less than 1 % of the yearly CO2eq.
         emissions in the baseline situation. As the baseline emissions are not known in this
         part of the baseline study, it is an iterative process to determine this. Rough
         calculations can be made at this point to determine the significance of the
         emissions. Expressing in CO2eq. should be carried out by using the conversion
         factors of their Global Warming Potentials (GWP) as defined by IPCC and set out
         in Table 0-13.

The Project Developer should determine the project boundary and draw those in the project
flowcharts defined above. The boundary should include all emissions selected as under the
control of the project in the previous step. Equivalent boundaries should be used for the
calculation of both the baseline and the project emissions so that the two are directly
comparable.

In addition to the flow diagrams the Project Developer should produce a table similar to
Table A-2 showing a breakdown of the sources included in the project boundary.

Table A-2: Project Boundary Definition
On-site emissions
Project                    Baseline                   Direct and indirect     Include or exclude
For example
CO2 emissions from         CO2 emissions from         Direct                  Include
producing power for the    producing equivalent
grid                       power in other power
                           plants




Off-site emissions
Project                    Baseline                   Direct and indirect     Include or exclude
For example
CO2 emissions from         CO2 emissions from         Indirect                Exclude, not under the
transportation of natural  production and                                     control of the Project
gas                        transportation of oil and                          Developer
                           coal



                                                                                                  41

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




2.2. Key Influences
All project and baseline emissions are determined by a variety of project/sector specific
and region/country specific factors. Some of those factors may have a crucial impact on
emissions levels, and will therefore be considered key influences. These key influences
can occur at three levels:

     - off-site key influences that cannot be affected by the project e.g. policy,
        international markets;

     - off-site key influences that can be affected by the project e.g. selection of a fuel
        supplier;

     - on-site key influences e.g. activity level.

The Project Developer should list all the key influences that affect the baseline
development of emissions, the project activity level, the greenhouse gas emissions and the
risks for the project. A key element in this aspect of the assessment is to determine the
influences that will change the project output. It is important that the comparison of the
baseline with the project situation occurs when the two scenarios are directly comparable
i.e. emissions when the same amount of product is being produced or the same number of
homes provided with heat and electricity etc.

This should describe each of the influences role and effect on the baseline and project
scenario. It should be ensured that if there are operational modes for both the baseline and
project these are considered and specified.

The Project Developer should consider the potential changes in these key influences
throughout the project life. The most likely scenario for development of these key
influences over time should be determined and remain the same for both baseline and
project scenarios.

Examples of potential key influences that should be considered include:

     - legislation development;

     - economic growth, socio-economic change resulting in changes in demand;

     - fuel prices;

     - availability of local technology, skills and knowledge;

     - national expansion plans;

     - level of production, output etc.


                                                                                           42

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




2.3. Baseline and Project Scenarios
The construction of the baseline scenario is one of the most crucial elements of the
assessment of greenhouse gas emissions reductions. If the baseline scenario is equal to the
project scenario the emissions reductions are zero. A baseline scenario is set up with the
best knowledge and most recent information on future developments available at the time
of or prior to the date of its set up. The baseline should cover a time period equivalent to
the proposed project's life and should be based on an economically sound approach.

To determine the baseline scenario the Project Developer should complete two
assessments. First a scenario analysis considering the key influences affecting the project
(identified earlier) should be completed. The objective of this analysis is to determine the
most conservative (most likely) baseline scenario for the evolution of these key influences
over the life of the project.

The Project Developer should then complete an analysis of the potential options, based on
the key influences baseline established above, that fulfil the same goals as defined by the
project boundary e.g. providing light from 1000 street lights. One of these options should
be the project itself e.g. fit 1000 streetlights with energy saving lightbulbs. The Project
Developer should undertake an economic analysis of the options selecting the most likely
option as the baseline (business-as-usual) option e.g. maintain the use of standard light
bulbs. The Project Developer should justify this selection, including a comparison of the
project economics, to the Fund Manager. All methodologies, data and calculations should
be incorporated in this comparison.

The Project Developer should ensure that any baseline and project scenarios consider and
are based on the same assumptions related to the key influences identified earlier.

The baseline is in essence the scenario that reasonably represents the greenhouse gas
emissions that would occur in the absence of the proposed project. The Project Developer
should provide a description of the most likely developments starting now and covering a
period equivalent to the project life.

The project scenario is the situation with the same key influences as the baseline (e.g.
production output, lights etc.) but with the project complete. The purpose of establishing
the project boundary and the key influences is to ensure the baseline and project are
comparable.

3. Step 2 ­ Estimate Fuel/Energy Consumption in Original Units
The Project Developer shall compile the data to be used in the calculation of the energy
savings and greenhouse gas emissions reductions due to the project. This shall comprise
two different calculation flows:

      a) the baseline;

      b) the project.


                                                                                           43

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




3.1. Baseline ­ Data Compilation
All data for this step should be collected/estimated in original units, for example, tonnes,
kWh etc.

3.1.1. Energy/Fuel Inputs
For each of the emissions sources related to energy and fuel consumption identified in Step
1 the Project Developer shall collate/calculate the historical fuel consumption for the
existing process for the four most recent years and record them maintaining documentary
records for verification purposes. In most cases this information should be available from
fuel bills.

The Project Developer shall establish a projection of energy/fuel consumption for the
baseline. This should estimate the annual fuel consumption that is anticipated to occur in
the absence of the project. This should cover a time period equivalent to the proposed
project's life and follow the guidance outlined in this document.

The Project Developer should summarise the information in a table similar to Table A-3.
The Project Developer shall maintain evidence of calculations and input data
collected/processed in order to provide the annual figures to allow validation of the
estimates.

Table A-3: Energy/Fuel Inputs ­ Without the Project
Project                                INPUTS (Annual energy/fuel consumption)
Year        Electricity          Coal (units)         Oil (units)         Gas (units)    Other (please specify)
            (units)                                                                      (units)
-3
-2
-1
Current
year
1
2
......            ......              ......                ......               ......           ......
......            ......              ......                ......               ......           ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



3.1.2. Outputs
The Project Developer shall collate/calculate historical annual outputs (e.g. production
mass, quantity, heat, electricity, light etc.) from the existing process for the four most
recent years and record them. This should be in the format of units (e.g. tonnes) of product
per year other examples could be houses heated, streetlamps lit etc.


                                                                                                          44

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Using the same baseline projection established to estimate annual future energy
consumption, the Project Developer shall estimate annual outputs for the baseline case. As
with the energy/fuel consumption estimates this should cover a time period equivalent to
the proposed project's life.

The Project Developer should summarise the information in a table similar to Table A-4.
The Project Developer shall maintain evidence of calculations and input data
collected/processed in order to provide the annual figures to allow validation of the
estimates.

Table A-4: Outputs ­ Without the Project

Project                                                      OUTPUTS
Year                 Tonnes of product (specify)                                  Other (please specify)
-3
-2
-1
Current
year
1
2
......                               ......                                               ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



3.1.3. Non-Combustion Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions
The calculation of energy/fuel associated greenhouse gas emissions shall occur based on
the energy/fuel consumption data. However in addition to this for all greenhouse gas
emissions sources identified in Step 1 that are not related to fuel combustion the Project
Developer shall estimate the non-combustion related greenhouse gas emissions from the
existing process. Non-combustion related greenhouse gas emissions refer to the emission
of any greenhouse gas, that results from the process not including that related to the
consumption of energy and/or fuel. For example this could include the release of
insulating gases during the manufacturing process.

Please note that the Project Developer will be required to provide evidence of the release
of these Greenhouse gases from the process both in the baseline and project scenarios.

The Project Developer shall collate/calculate the historical annual non-energy/fuel
consumption related greenhouse gas emissions from the current process for the four most
recent years and record them. This should be in the format of tonnes of greenhouse gas per
year.



                                                                                                         45

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Using the same baseline projection established to estimate annual future energy
consumption the Project Developer shall estimate annual non-energy/fuel consumption
greenhouse gas emissions for the baseline. As with the energy/fuel consumption estimates
this should cover a time period equivalent to the proposed project's life.

The Project Developer should summarise the information in a table similar to Table A-5.
The Project Developer shall maintain evidence of calculations and input data
collected/processed in order to provide the annual figures to allow validation of the
estimates.

Table A-5: Baseline Non-Combustion Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Project       Baseline Non-Combustion Related Greenhouse Gas emissions Quantity in tonnes
Year                                                           per year

              CO2         CH4          N2O          HFC (specify                CFC (specify  SF6 (specify
                                                          type)                   type)         type)
-3
-2
-1
Current
year
1
2
......        ......      ......       ......              ......                 ......         ......
......        ......      ......       ......              ......                 ......         ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



3.2. The Project ­ Data Collection
All data for this step should be collected in original units, for example, tonnes, kWh etc.
Having collated/calculated the data required for the baseline situation the Project
Developer must complete the following steps for the project scenario ensuring that all key
influences remain comparable to the baseline scenario.

3.2.1. Energy/Fuel Inputs
For each of the combustion related emissions sources identified under step 1 the Project
Developer shall establish a projection of the annual energy/fuel consumption for the
project. This should estimate the annual fuel consumption that is anticipated to occur with
the project for the life of the project.

The Project Developer should summarise the information in a table similar to Table A-6.
The Project Developer shall maintain evidence of calculations and input data
collected/processed in order to provide the annual figures to allow validation of the
estimates.

                                                                                                       46

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Table A-6: Energy/Fuel Inputs ­ With the Project

Project                                INPUTS (Annual energy/fuel consumption)
Year        Electricity          Coal (units)         Oil (units)         Gas (units)       Other (please specify)
            (units)                                                                         (units)
Current                            Note these will be the same as the baseline scenario
year
1
2
......            ......              ......                ......               ......              ......
......            ......              ......                ......               ......              ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



3.2.2. Outputs
Using the same project projection established to estimate annual future energy
consumption with the project the Project Developer shall estimate future annual outputs
(e.g. production mass, quantity, heat, electricity, light etc.) with the project. As with the
energy/fuel consumption estimates this should provide annual estimates over the project
life and should be recorded in units of output (e.g. tonnes per year). It should be noted that
the Project Developer should ensure that all key influences remain consistent with the
baseline and that the output allows comparison with the baseline i.e. they should be the
same.

The Project Developer should summarise the information in a table similar toTable A-7.
The Project Developer shall maintain evidence of calculations and input data
collected/processed in order to provide the annual figures to allow validation of the
estimates.

Table A-7: Outputs ­ With the Project
Project                                                      OUTPUTS
Year                 Tonnes of product (specify)                                    Other (please specify)
Current                           Note these will be the same as the baseline scenario
year
1
2
......                               ......                                                 ......
......                               ......                                                 ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.




                                                                                                             47

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




3.2.3. Non-Combustion Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions
The calculation of energy/fuel associated greenhouse gas emissions shall occur based on
the energy/fuel consumption data. However, in addition to this the Project Developer shall
estimate the non-combustion related greenhouse gas emissions for the project.

Please note that the Project Developer will be required to provide evidence/justifications of
the release of these Greenhouse gases for the baseline and project scenarios.

Using the same project projection established to estimate annual future energy
consumption the Project Developer shall estimate annual non-energy/fuel consumption
greenhouse gas emissions for the project. As with the energy/fuel consumption estimates
this should provide annual estimates for the life of the project. This should be recorded in
tonnes of Greenhouse gases per year.

The Project Developer should summarise the information in a table similar to Table A-8.
The Project Developer shall maintain evidence of calculations and input data
collected/processed in order to provide the annual figures to allow validation of the
estimates.

Table A-8: Project Non-Combustion Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Project     Project Non-Combustion Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions Quantity in tonnes per
Year                                                              year

              CO2         CH4          N2O          HFC (specify                CFC (specify  SF6 (specify
                                                          type)                   type)         type)
Current                      Note these will be the same as without the project scenario
year
1
2
......        ......      ......       ......              ......                 ......         ......
......        ......      ......       ......              ......                 ......         ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



4. Step 3 ­ Convert to a Common Energy Unit for greenhouse gas Calculations
The Project Developer shall convert the original energy unit data compiled through the
completion of Step 2 (with the exception of electricity consumption) to terajoules (TJ).
This will allow the consistent application of IPCC emissions factors to calculate the CO2
emissions.

The Project Developer shall apply the conversion factors in Table A-9 to the converted
energy data. The Project Developer shall produce all applicable summary tables as
outlined under Step 2 with all energy/fuel consumption (apart from electricity) reported in
TJ.


                                                                                                       48

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




For the moment electricity consumption should remain in kWh.

Table A-9: Conversion Factors
Unit                                              Conversion Factor to TJ
J, MJ, GJ                                         Number is divided by the appropriate factor
                                                  1012, 106 and 103 respectively
Tonnes oil equivalent (toe)                       Number multiplied by 0.041868
Tcal                                              Number is multiplied by 4.1868
103t                                              The Net Calorific Value of each fuel is used
                                                  (see
                                                  Table A-10)


Table A-10: Selected Net Calorific Values
Fuel                                                    Conversion factors (TJ/103 tonnes)
Gasoline                                                              44.80
Jet kerosene                                                          44.59
Other kerosene                                                        44.75
Shale oil                                                             36.00
Gas/diesel oil                                                        43.33
Residual fuel oil                                                     40.19
LPG                                                                   47.31
Ethane                                                                47.49
Naphtha                                                               45.01
Bitumen                                                               40.19
Lubricants                                                            40.19
Petroleum coke                                                        31.00
Refinery feedstocks                                                   44.80
Refinery gas                                                          48.15
Other oil products                                                    40.19
Coal oils and tars derived from coking coals                          28.00
Oil shale                                                              9.40
Orimulsion                                                            27.50


5. Step 4 ­ greenhouse gas Emissions Calculation
The greenhouse gas emissions shall be calculated as a sum of the following:

    - greenhouse gas emitted from energy (electricity) consumption;

    - greenhouse gas emitted from fuel consumption;

    - non-combustion related greenhouse gas emissions (i.e. released from the
       manufacturing process excluding the consumption of fuel or energy).


                                                                                          49

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




5.1. Electricity consumption greenhouse gas Emissions
For both the baseline and project scenarios the Project Developer shall convert electricity
consumption figures into greenhouse gas emissions using the following method:

   Greenhouse gas Emissions (Kt/CO2) = Electricity consumption (kWh)*CO2 emissions
                                                 factor (KtC02/kWh)

The Project Developer shall apply the emissions factor provided in Table A-11.

Table A-11: Emissions Factor Grid Electricity
                                                                                      KtCO2/kWh
 Grid electricity                                                                      4.72 x 10-7
Note that a single emissions factor for grid electricity in Bulgaria has been calculated based on the average emissions per
            kWh for the period 1988-2000. Actual figures of CO2/kWh may differ from this, but in order to allow year
            on year comparisons this constant value shall be applied throughout the duration of the fund.



5.2. Fuel consumption greenhouse gas Emissions
For both the baseline and project scenarios the Project Developer shall convert fuel
consumption figures into greenhouse gas emissions using the following method:

  Greenhouse gas Emissions (Kt/CO2) = Fuel consumption (TJ)*Fuel specific emissions
                                                  factor (KtCO2/TJ)

The Project Developer should apply the relevant emissions factor in Table A-12 to the
relevant converted fuel consumption estimate completed under Step 3. Should the Project
Developer wish to develop project specific emissions factors for the particular situation
this is acceptable, however, IPCC or World Bank consistent methodologies should be
followed and all data, calculations, methodologies and assumptions should be provided to
the Fund Manager for assessment. It is noted that if the Project Developer develops
bespoke emissions factors then these should be applied to both the baseline and project
greenhouse gas emissions calculations as agreed with the Fund Manager.

Table A-12: Emissions Factors for Fuels
                                           Energy Carrier                                            KtCO2/TJ
SOLID FUELS
Primary fuels                              Anthracite                                                  0.0983
                                           Coking coal                                                 0.0946
                                           Other bituminous coal                                       0.0946
                                           Sub-bituminous coal                                         0.0961
                                           Lignite                                                     0.1012
                                           Oil shale                                                   0.1067
                                           Peat                                                        0.1060
Secondary fuel/product                     Coke oven/Gas coke                                          0.1082
                                           Coke oven gas                                               0.0477


                                                                                                                       50

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




                                       Blast furnace gas                               0.2420
                                       Patent fuel and BKB                             0.0946
LIQUID FUELS
Primary fuels                          Crude oil                                       0.0733
                                       Orimulsion                                      0.0807
                                       Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)                     0.0631
Secondary fuel/products                Gasoline                                        0.0693
                                       Jet kerosene                                    0.0715
                                       Other kerosene                                  0.0719
                                       Shale oil                                       0.0733
                                       Gas/diesel oil                                  0.0741
                                       Residual fuel oil                               0.0774
                                       LPG                                             0.0631
                                       Ethane                                          0.0616
                                       Naphtha                                         0.0733
                                       Bitumen                                         0.0807
                                       Lubricants                                      0.0807
                                       Petroleum coke                                  0.1008
                                       Refinery feedstock                              0.0807
                                       Refinery gas                                    0.0667
                                       Other oil                                       0.0733
GASEOUS FUELS
                                       Natural gas                                     0.0561
                                       Methane                                         0.0551
Source IPCC     (1996)   Revised    Guidelines     for    National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (online at
         http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/gl/invs1.htm)



5.3. Process Non-Energy/Fuel Combustion greenhouse gas Emissions
The methodology for this aspect differs from the treatment of electricity and fuel
consumption. The greenhouse gas emissions due to this element will only be included in
the assessment if the Project Developer can robustly demonstrate/justify the estimated
changes.

The process that should be followed is:

    - The Project Developer should assess if there is a demonstrable change in the non-
       combustion related greenhouse gas emissions between baseline and the project
       scenarios.

    - The Project Developer shall convert all process non-CO2 gases to CO2 equivalent
       levels through the application of the relevant Global Warming Potential (Table
       0-13) to the relevant gases. These should then be converted to Kilotonnes (Kt).



                                                                                                     51

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




   - If the change is on a scale equal to or greater than 1 % of the annual baseline
       emissions (in CO2eq) the Project Developer should discuss the situation with the
       Fund Manager. If the change is less than 1 % the annual baseline emissions they
       shall not be included.

   - The Fund Manager and Project Developer shall examine the robustness and
       accuracy of the calculation data and determine the validity of the changes. The
       Fund Manager shall decide whether the information is robust enough for inclusion
       in the assessment. If included the Fund Manager and the Project Developer shall
       agree the operational monitoring regime to be applied.

Table 0-13: Global Warming Potentials (based on IPCC data)
Chemical substance                                        CO2 Equivalent multiplier
Carbon dioxide (CO2)                                                   1
Methane (CH4)                                                          21
Nitrous oxide (N2O)                                                   310
HFC-23                                                              11700
HFC-32                                                                650
HFC-41                                                                150
HFC-43-10mee                                                         1300
HFC-125                                                              2800
HFC-134                                                              1000
HFC-134a                                                             1300
HFC-152a                                                              140
HFC-143                                                               300
HFC-143a                                                             3800
HFC-227ea                                                            2900
HFC-236fa                                                            6300
HFC-245ca                                                             560
CF4                                                                  6500
C2F6                                                                 9200
C3F8                                                                 7000
C4F10                                                                7000
c-C4F8                                                               8700
C5F12                                                                7500
C6F14                                                                7400
SF6                                                                 23900




                                                                                       52

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




6. Step 5 ­ Compiling greenhouse gas Emissions/calculating emissions reductions
For both the baseline and project scenarios the Project Developer should summarise the
greenhouse gas emissions in a table such as Table A-14 (thereby producing two tables).
The columns A, B and C can be populated through the completion of the methodology set
out in Steps 1-4 above. The total emissions for each year can then be summed to calculate
the estimated total greenhouse gas emissions both with and without the project.


Table A-14 greenhouse gas Emissions (KtCO2)

Project Year                   Greenhouse              Greenhouse               Non-           Total
                               gas Emissions           gas emissions            combustion     greenhouse gas
                               from                    from Fuels               related        emissions
                               Electricity                                      greenhouse gas
                                                                                Emissions
                                       (A)                     (B)                    (C)       D=(A+B+C)
Current year
1
2
......                                ......                  ......                  ......        ......
......                                ......                  ......                  ......        ......
14
15
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.




Having completed a version of Table A-14 for both the baseline and project scenarios the
Project Developer shall deduct the annual total baseline emissions from the annual total
project emissions to calculate the total annual emissions saved due to the project. Having
kept the key influences the same in the formulation of the baseline and project these two
sets of figures should be directly comparable. The sum of these annual emissions savings
over the project life provides the total estimated lifetime emissions savings due to the
project. The Project Developer shall complete and report a table similar to




                                                                                                          53

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Table A-15.




                                                   54

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Table A-15: greenhouse gas Emissions Reduced (ktCO2)
Project Year        Total annual baseline               Total annual project           Total greenhouse gas
                    greenhouse gas                      greenhouse gas                 Emissions reductions
                    emissions                           emissions
                                   (E)                               (F)                       (G=F-E)
Current year
1
2
......                            ......                             ......                     ......
......                            ......                             ......                     ......
14
15
                                                       Total Emissions Reduced           (Sum of column G)
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



7. Step 6 ­ Energy Saved
The Project Developer shall calculate the total energy/fuels saved by completing the
following methodology for both the baseline and project scenarios.

For the baseline and project cases first take the annual electricity estimates (in kWh) and
convert them to TJ by applying the conversion factor in Table A-16.

Table A-16: Electricity Conversion to terajoules (TJ)
              Kilowatt hour (kWh)                                                Terajoule (TJ)
                           1                                                      3.6 x 10-6



Next take the annual fuel consumption estimates and the annual electricity consumption
estimate (converted to TJ, for fuels see Step 3) for both the baseline and project scenarios
and multiply them with the conversion factor in Table A-17 to provide an estimate of
tonnes of oil equivalent (toe).

Table A-17: Fuel Conversion to Tonnes of Oil Equivalent (toe)
                   Terajoule (TJ)                                                     toe
                           1                                                        23.88



Having converted the energy/fuel consumptions for both the baseline and project scenarios
the Project Developer shall calculate the energy saving due the project by subtracting the
estimated annual baseline energy consumption from the estimated annual project energy
consumption. The total project life energy savings are a simple sum of the annual savings.
The Project Developer shall summarise the results in a table similar to




                                                                                                         55

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Table A-18.




                                                   56

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




Table A-18: Energy Savings (tonnes of oil equivalent)
Project Year        Total annual baseline               Total annual project        Total annual energy
                    energy consumption                  energy consumption          savings
                                  (H)                                 (I)                   (J=I-H)
Current year
1
2
......                            ......                             ......                  ......
......                            ......                             ......                  ......
14
15
                                                              Total Energy Saved      (Sum of column J)
Note: The table should contain a row for each year of the proposed projects life.



8. Evidence and Records
The Project Developer shall develop a spreadsheet to calculate the energy savings and
greenhouse gas reductions. This shall clearly show all the calculation steps and input data.
The spreadsheet shall contain full referencing, calculations and assumptions including
those used in the creation of the baseline and project applied in Step 2.

The Project Developer shall provide this spreadsheet for submission with their report that
shall in turn contain the summarised data outlined above. The Fund Manager shall use
these submissions in the process of proposal evaluation and will require the Project
Developer to provide documentary evidence and/or justification of energy consumption
levels, process emissions, and outputs under both baseline and project scenarios. The
report should explain/justify both the baseline and project projections.

9. Operational Monitoring, Calculation and Reporting
The Project Developer, as a condition of BEEF support, shall produce a Project Realisation
Report. In this report the Project Developer shall report the actual energy savings and
emissions reductions achieved by the project at the time of reporting. The Project
Developer shall produce a stand alone report summarising the greenhouse gas emissions
and energy savings that have occurred to date. This shall include a discussion in relation to
the results and key factor evolvement. In addition it should follow the guidance as set out
in this methodology.

The Project Developer shall put in place procedures to monitor and record all emissions
sources identified in the project boundary and all key influences for example including the
following information:

    - electricity consumption;

    - fuel consumption (by type);



                                                                                                      57

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




    - process greenhouse gas emissions, excluding emissions from electricity and fuel
        consumption (by gas). Note that the monitoring of these emissions should be
        discussed with the Fund Manager;

    - product output (by applicable unit e.g. mass, volume, quantity);

    - information on any other key influences identified in Step 1.

The Project Developer should summarise the mechanisms and responsibilities for
monitoring, recording, storing and reporting these in the Project Realisation Report.

The Project Developer shall use the same Steps outlined in Steps 2-6 to calculate the
monitored energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for the year being reported.
The Project Developer shall ensure that all sources identified within the project boundary
are included in this assessment and the consideration of the key influences evolution in
comparison to the baseline occurs.

The Project Developer shall then calculate the estimated monitored energy consumption
and greenhouse gas emissions by subtracting the monitored energy consumption and
monitored greenhouse gas emissions from the estimated baseline energy consumption and
estimated baseline greenhouse gas emissions (developed above) respectively. The Project
Developer should ensure that the key influences are comparable between the two data sets.
Where there are inconsistencies between the actual key influences and the baseline the
Project Developer shall document these and discuss the situation with the Fund Manager.
The Project Developer shall work to ensure the principles of consistency, comparability,
practicability, reliability, transparency and validity of emissions factors are maintained.
The Project Developer shall include in their report a summary of the results by producing a
table similar to Table A-19.

Table A-19: Actual Energy Savings and Emissions Reductions
Project Year         Year X baseline               Year X monitored        Monitored savings
                     estimates
                                   (K)                   (L)                    (M=K-L)
Energy                           XX toe                 XX toe                   XX toe
Emissions                     XX KtCO2               XX KtCO2                   XX KtCO2
Note: Year X refers to the year being monitored.




                                                                                           58

BEEF: Appendix 6 ­ Detailed Project Description




 APPENDIX 7 - DETAILED PROJECT
                               DESCRIPTION




                                                   59

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




    DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION

 1 General Information of the Project Developer

1.1 Name and contact details

    Name:


    Address:




    Tel:                               Fax:                      E-mail:


    Bulstat and VAT number:


    Contact Person:


    Tel:                               E-mail:



1.2 Legal status of Project Developer (please mark appropriate box):

    [ ] Public Company                            [ ] NGO


    [ ] Private Company (please specify AD,       [ ] Other(specify):

    OOD, SD, KD, ET)




1.3 Description of Project Developer's activity and nature of the business




                                                                              60

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




1.4 Description of Project Developer's products




1.5 Description of market position (please specify market size, % of market share)




1.6 Description of major customers (please specify name, % of total sales, turnover in
    BGN, products)




1.7 Description of major suppliers (please specify name, % of total supplies, turnover in
    BGN, products)




                                                                                        61

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




1.8 Major strengths and opportunities of the business




1.9 Major weaknesses and threats of the business




                                                         62

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 2 Project Description

2.1 Description of the project




2.2 Rationale of the project




2.3 Scope of the project (please specify facilities covered, people and parties involved)




2.4 Description of project beneficiaries/ end-users (if different from the project company)




                                                                                         63

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




2.5 Technical details of the project (please specify equipment delivery details, installation
    specifications, other)




2.6 Project implementation partners (ESCOs, technical consultants, leasing companies,
    vendors, financial institutions)

     Name:


     Address:




     Tel:                                          Fax:


     Rationale for involvement:




     Details of preliminary agreements (if any):




                                                                                           64

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




2.7 Location of the project




2.8 Duration of the project implementation




2.9 Description of current facilities (fixed assets) - condition, infrastructure and
    background information on processes covered by the project

    Plants (description):                                               Average Age:


    Warehouses (description):                                           Average Age:


    Equipment (description of major items):                             Average Age:


    Machinery (description of major items):                             Average Age:


    Other (specification and description):                              Average Age:




                                                                                       65

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 3 Project economics and implementation

3.1 Total project costs

    Item                                                  BGN           Foreign   % of total

                                                                        currency


    Feasibility study


    Equipment


    Construction and installation works


    Management fee


    Other (please specify)


    Total



3.2 Technical specification of the project technology ­ equipment and/or facilities

    Name and description                       Condition (new, good, fair, poor) Age (in years)




                                                                                           66

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




3.3 Additional improvements needed to the technology ­ equipment and/or facilities
    (brief description, if any)




3.4 Timetable of implementation and disbursement

     Date of purchase or cost                  Short technical description of Amount in BGN

     incurred                                  purchases




                                                                                         67

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




3.5 Description of major implementation parties (companies)

     Project component          Name of the party    Involvement rationale




3.6 Implementation contract details (major terms and conditions, amount, penalties,
    duration)




3.7 Description of any contingency costs in the project (amount, contingent
    circumstances)




                                                                                    68

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




3.8 Summary projections of cash flows (in BGN)

    Year                                         0 1  2 3  4 5  Total


    Project investment


    Energy savings


    Net other benefits (savings, incremental

    revenue)


    Net reduction / (increase) in

    maintenance costs


    Depreciation and amortization of

    project assets




                                                                    69

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 4 Details of required financing

4.1 Proposed project financing structure

    Financing source                     Amount in BGN  Amount in foreign currency % total


    Borrower's participation


    Suppliers


    Local banks


    BEEF


    Foreign equity participation


    Others (please specify)


    Total project costs                                                            100%




4.2 Collateral provided by the Project Developer to secure repayment

    Description of item                              Estimated value in BGN




    Total




                                                                                     70

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




4.3 Specify (if any) available valuations used in the estimation of the collateral value

    Name of the appraiser:


    Address:




    Tel:                               Fax:                    E-mail:




4.4 Provide description of preliminary agreements signed with financing partners




                                                                                         71

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 5 Details of the Project Developer operations

    All of the information below concerns the status of the Project Developer before

    implementation of the project.

5.1 Shareholders' structure

     Name                              % ownership               Residence




5.2 Number of employees
     Number

     As at date:




5.3 Management details

     Full name                                     Position




                                                                                       72

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




5.4 Investments

     Name                              % holding               Residence




5.5 Financial information (please fill out the data based on financial statements and
    future projections)



    Profit and loss details


     (in BGN)                                   Historic     Budget         Projected


     Item                                   2001 2002   2003 2004      2005   2006   2007


     Sales


     Operating costs


     Operating profit


     Financial income


     Financial costs


     Net profit




                                                                                       73

BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




Fixed assets and working capital details


(in BGN)                                    Historic     Budget    Projected


Item                                    2001 2002   2003 2004  2005 2006    2007


Fixed assets


Inventory


Receivables


Payables




Debt details


(in BGN)                                    Historic     Budget    Projected


Item                                    2001 2002   2003 2004  2005 2006    2007


Long- term debt


Short- term debt




                                                                              74

BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




Long- term debt providers


Name             BGN              % of total   Description of basic terms (interest,

                                               maturity)




Capital expenditures (in BGN)




Ratios


                                            Historic       Budget          Projected


                                        2001 2002   2003   2004      2005    2006   2007


Gross profit margin (%)


Net profit margin (%)


Current ratio


Return on capital (%)


Debt / Equity ratio




                                                                                      75

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 6 Environmental Information

6.1 Describe the current environmental and social situation in the project area




6.2 Describe the main physical components of the project




6.3 Describe major adverse environmental impacts/risks of the project (if any)




                                                                                  76

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




6.4 Summarise and provide information on environmental reports (consultations with
    local aouthorities conducted) with respect to environmental impact of the project

     Date of the report                Major consulting       Results/Recommendations

     (consulting)                      authority              summary




6.5 Describe the public consultation/disclosure process for the project (who are the local
    population groups affected by the project)




6.6 Describe environmental permits required and obtained to implement the project




                                                                                        77

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




6.7 Describe any actions required to mitigate/eliminate adverse environmental impacts
    from the project




6.8 GHG emissions reduction (in KtCO2 reduced)

     Years                           0       1   2  3     4     5      6      ...   15


     Total GHG emissions

     reduction




6.9 Energy savings (tonnes of oil equivalent)

     Years                           0       1   2  3      4     5     6      ...   15


     Total annual energy

     savings




  Note: Detailed calculations of the total GHG emissions saved and energy saved should
  be presented in the detailed assessment report prepared in accordance with the
  methodology presented in Appendix 6.




                                                                                      78

 BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




Enclosures:


    1. Signed declaration on information reliability;

    2. Signed declaration on consent to provide information to co-financing partners;

    3. Guidelines to DPP Completion;

    4. Current legal status of the Project Developer;

    5. Court registration;

    6. Tax registration and BULSTAD registration;

    7. A copy of the audited financial statements for the last three years (Balance Sheet,
        Income Statement, Cash Flow Statement, Statement of Changes in Equity);

    8. Specimen of the authorising person;

    9. Declarations on pledges, mortgages and guarantees imposed on the Project
        Developer's assets;

    10. Banks' declarations (where the Project Developer has open accounts with) that the
        company has no overdue payments to them (dated from the last month before the
        month of application);

    11. A copy of preliminary contracts or offers by suppliers (project implementors) for
        construction, delivery or phase implementation of the project;

    12. Licenses and certificates of the Project Developer needed for operation;

    13. A copy of a detailed or any other energy audit performed (if available);

    14. A copy of the business plan prepared by the company (if available).

    15. A copy of prepared Environmental Impact Assessment;

    16. A copy of any environmental permits;




                                                                                          79

BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




   Declaration on information reliability




Hereby we declare and guarantee that all information provided in this form and any other

documents enclosed herewith is true and accurate, provided that such information is

available. We confirm that we have read and fully understood the contents of the Detailed

Project Description form and the eligibility criteria enclosed in Appendix 1.




Name and signature of the legal representative




Date and seal




                                                                                      80

BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




        Declaration on consent to provide
     information to co-financing partners



Hereby we declare our consent that BEEF could transfer/ release the above information to

the interested partners with the purpose of structuring financing schemes of the above-

described project. Partners could be financial institutions, ESCOs, leasing companies, etc.


We give BEEF the right to contact any person or company/ institution (including suppliers

and clients) that could offer useful information in the loan grant decision- making process.




Name and signature of the legal representative




Date and stamp




                                                                                          81

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




    GUIDELINES TO DPD COMPLETION

 1 General information of the Project Developer

1.1 Name and contact details
    Please specify the full legal name of the entity / Project Developer, which is applying for
    finance. Specify the location of the Project Developer and the contact person, which should
    have authority to act on behalf of the Project Developer to explain details for the project.

1.2 Legal status of the Project Developer
    Please specify the official name of the enterprise / developer, which is included in the
    business licence, entrepreneur's certificate, or company record. If the Project Developer is
    in the process of being registered, these documents should be provided together with the
    receipt from the Court of Registration of the submission of these documents.

1.3 Description of the Project Developer's activity and nature of the business
    Please provide a short description of the Project Developer's core activities, nature of the
    business and its experience with regards to energy efficiency.

1.4 Description of the project company's products
    Please provide the names of each of Project Developer's products or services, a brief
    technical description and the proportion each product contributes to the total turnover.

1.5 Description of market position (please specify market size, % of market share)
    Please specify the industry / sector in which the Project Developer operates accompanied
    by a brief description of the market and the market environment, Project Developer's
    share, geographical area of the Project Developer's market.

1.6 Description of major customers (please specify name, % of total sales, turnover in
    BGN, products)
    Please describe the major customers of the Project Developer. This should include names,
    type or profile of activity, % of Project Developer's total sales; turnover in BGN, major
    products sold to the specific customer.

1.7 Description of major suppliers (please specify name, % of total supplies, turnover in
    BGN, products)
    Please describe the major suppliers of the Project Developer. This should include names,
    type or profile of activity, % of Project Developer's total supplies; turnover in BGN,
    products purchased from the specific supplier.




                                                                                                82

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




1.8 Major strengths and opportunities of the business
    Please specify the internal strengths or capabilities of the Project Developer as well as
    available opportunities on the marketplace. You should answer the following questions:

        · Are your personnel and senior management equipped with proper technical,
             marketing, selling and negotiating skills?

        · Does the business have a unique selling point? In other words, do you offer a
             special benefit in its products or services, which are not offered by competitors?

        · Do you have strong customer loyalty?

        · Do you enjoy a special licence or subsidy from the government?
             Is your business in close proximity to the markets?, etc.

1.9 Major weaknesses and threats of the business
    Please specify the internal and external risks to the Project Developer: factors which the
    management can control and factors which are beyond the control of management. You
    should focus on the critical risks (events, activities or persons without which the business
    is not likely to survive).

 2 Project description

2.1 Description of the project
    Please specify details of the project and note a few salient points. Provide information on
    the current status of the facilities / processes covered and the proposed improvements.
    Avoid too technical details when describing.

2.2 Rationale of the project
    Please explain how is the project related to the core activities of the business and major
    benefits expected.

2.3 Scope of the project (please specify facilities covered, people and parties involved)
    Please describe the breadth of the project in terms of time, space and number of personnel
    directly and indirectly involved. In addition, you should specify the facilities / processes
    covered and interested parties involved.

2.4 Description of project beneficiaries/end-users (if different from the Project
    Developer)
    Please describe briefly the major characteristics of the energy savings measures. Specify
    major beneficiaries of the project and benefits they will likely to take advantage of as a
    result of the implementation of the energy efficiency project.




                                                                                                83

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




2.5 Technical details of the project (please specify equipment delivery details, installation
    specifications, other)
    Please provide a summary of the planned or contractual technical arrangements for the
    necessary plant and equipment / process improvement. Specify equipment delivery details,
    installation specifications and other.

2.6 Project implementation partners (ESCOs, technical consultants, leasing companies,
    vendors, financial institutions)
    Please provide contact details on the project partners and their rationale for involvement in
    the project. Typical project partners may be equipment vendors, ESCOs, technical
    consultants, leasing companies, financial institutions, etc.

2.7 Location of the project
    Please specify the place where the project is expected to be implemented.

2.8 Duration of the project implementation

    Please specify the time period (in months) from the beginning of the project to its
    completion of construction / installation and starting of operations.

2.9 Description of current facilities (fixed assets) - condition, infrastructure and
    background information on processes covered by the project
    Please specify the infrastructural background of the project with regards to condition and
    age of facilities / processes covered. You should include information on locations owned or
    rented fixed capital assets.

 3 Project economics and implementation

3.1 Total project costs
    Please specify in BGN and in foreign currency and as a percentage of total, the project
    costs by components. Total project costs include estimates of the costs for technology,
    equipment, assets, goods and fees that will be needed in order for the project to be
    implemented and completed.

3.2 Technical specification of the project technology ­ equipment and/or facilities
    Please provide a description of the technology and facility to be used in the project
    including information on the age and the condition of the described items - new, good, fair
    or poor.

3.3 Additional improvements needed to the technology ­ equipment and/or facilities
    (brief description, if any)
    You should consider that the sources and dependability of the technology and equipment
    are important parts to the project. If the equipment is old and in poor condition, then it is
    unlikely to have very much value. New technology and equipment in new or good



                                                                                                 84

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




    condition is likely to carry the best value. If the technology/facilities are not new they may
    need some additional improvements and repairs in order to fit the project.

3.4 Timetable of implementation and disbursement
    You should specify the timetable for implementation and disbursements which describes in
    chronological order the major payments that must be made in order to complete the
    project. These payments should correspond to specific phases in the project. The major
    disbursements are payments to specific entities, mainly contractors, sub-contractors and
    suppliers.

3.5 Description of major implementation parties (companies)
    Please describe the arrangements for implementation which include a description of the
    major components of the project, the names of the contractors in charge of each component
    and the reasons for selecting the particular contractors.

3.6 Implementation contract details (major terms and conditions, amount, penalties,
    duration)
    Please summarise some of the major features (terms and conditions) of the contracts with
    the parties in charge of implementation. Information should include: terms and conditions
    of the completion covenants; terms of the progress payment schedules; special and unusual
    conditions, penalties, etc.

3.7 Description of any contingency costs in the project (amount, contingent
    circumstances)
    Contingency costs represent the cost for events outside the control of the Project
    Developer, built into the project costs. This will help ensure that project funding will be
    available in case of these events.

    You should provide information on: the nature of the contingency costs; their justification;
    reasons for overrun contingent costs (in any).

3.8 Summary projections of cash flows (in BGN)
    Please state:

        · The project investment, being the total cost of the installed facilities and
           technology;

        · Energy savings as calculated and stated above;

        · Net other benefits as a result of the project (incremental revenue and incremental
           benefits in addition to energy savings generated by the project);

        · Net reduction / (increase) in maintenance costs, being the savings to be released as
           a result of the project less the additional costs incurred in order to operate and
           maintain the newly installed facilities.

                                                                                                85

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 4 Details of required financing

4.1 Proposed project financing structure
    Please specify the sources of finance - in BGN, in foreign currency and in percentage of
    total.

4.2 Collateral provided by the Project Developer to secure repayment
    Describe the items (assets, cash, etc) proposed by the Project Developer and their value
    that may be used to secure the financing of the project.

4.3 Specify (if any) available valuations used in the estimation of the collateral value
    Please provide contact details of the appraiser that has performed (if any) evaluation of the
    project and or assets to be used as collateral.

4.4 Provide description of preliminary agreements signed with financing partners
    Please specify and describe any details on terms of agreements with financial partners that
    have been signed until the moment of filling this form (if applicable).

 5 Details of the Project Developer's operations

5.1 Shareholders' structure
    State the names, the percentage of ownership and the residence of all shareholders in the
    Project Developer.

5.2 Number of employees
    Specify the number of employees at a certain date as close to the date of filling this form as
    possible.

5.3 Management details
    Please specify the names, positions and responsibilities of key management staff of the
    Project Developer.

5.4 Investments
    Please provide information on any companies the Project Developer has invested in.
    Specify the percentage the Project Developer holds with it (associate company).




                                                                                               86

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




5.5 Financial information (please fill out the data based on financial statements and
    future projections)
    Please fill out the summarized tables: Profit and Loss Details; Fixed assets and working
    capital details; Debt details; Long- term debt providers; Capital expenditures, Ratios;

    Use the Financial Statements for the tree years before start of the project. Budget the
    figures for the current year and project results for the next three years including project
    results evaluations.

    Provide information on the major long-term debt providers, including bank loans, financial
    leasing, etc. Specify their name, the percentage of total long-term debt and describe briefly
    the basic terms-interest, maturity, specific clauses of contracts, etc.

    Calculate for the years specified above the following ratios using the formulae below:

    Gross profit margin = Revenues ­ Operating costs
                                       Revenues



    Net profit margin = Net income
                          Revenues



    Return on capital = Net income
                          Capital

    Current ratio = Current assets
                     Current liabilities

    Debt / equity = Long-term debt
                        Equity

 6 Environmental Information

    All information provided under this section of the DPD should be the direct result from the
    completed Environmental Summary Sheet (Appendix 4) and follow-up actions with the
    competent environmental authorities. The summarised information about the total GHG
    emissions reduction and energy savings should be based on the stand-alone GHG emission
    reduction and energy savings performed in accordance with the methodology presented in
    Appendix 6.




                                                                                               87

BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




APPENDIX 8 - PROJECT APPRAISAL
                                       REPORT




                                                 88

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




          PROJECT APPRAISAL REPORT
                                               (PAR)

  1Project Description

1.1 Summary description of the project (scope, scale, technology used)




1.2 Project rationale




1.3 Description and evaluation of major risks and threats to project realization

    Technical:


    Financial:


    Environmental and energy efficiency:



1.4 Proposed mitigation steps




                                                                                   89

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




1.5 Description and evaluation of major strengths and opportunities




1.6 Time schedule for project realization

    Implementation date:


    Lifetime:


    Start date of implementation:




1.7 Project partners

    Name                                           Rationale for involvement




                                                                                90

     BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 1.8 Project financing structure

     Financing source                     Amount in BGN Amount in foreign currency % total


     Borrower's participation


     Supplier


     Local banks


     BEEF


     Foreign equity participation


     Others (please specify)


     Total project costs                                                           100%



 1.9 Description of Project Developer's activity

     Activity:


     Major risks and threats to the business:


     Major strengths and opportunities to the business:




1.10 Project targeted energy efficiency results

     Item                                             Value


     Total energy savings


     KWh


     GJ


     BGN




                                                                                     91

     BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




     Total reduction in GHG


     (CO2 tonnes)


     Other results (please specify)




1.11 Project economics

     Net present value (NPV):


     Internal rate of return (IRR):


     Payback period:




                                                    92

     BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




1.12 Financial information (please fill out the data based on financial statements and
     future projections)
     Profit and loss details


      (in BGN)                                   Historic     Budget         Projected


      Item                                   2001 2002   2003 2004      2005   2006   2007


      Sales


      Operating costs


      Operating profit


      Financial income


      Financial costs


      Net profit




     Fixed assets and working capital details


      (in BGN)                                   Historic     Budget         Projected


      Item                                   2001 2002   2003 2004      2005   2006   2007


      Fixed assets


      Inventory


      Receivables


      Payables




                                                                                        93

BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




Debt details


(in BGN)                                    Historic     Budget    Projected


Item                                    2001 2002   2003 2004  2005 2006    2007


Long- term debt


Short- term debt




Capital expenditures (in BGN)




Ratios


                                            Historic     Budget    Projected


Ratio                                   2001 2002   2003 2004  2005 2006    2007


Gross profit margin


Net profit margin


Current ratio


Return on Capital


Debt / equity ratio




                                                                              94

     BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




1.13 Environmental categorization of the project (in accordance with the legislation in
     force and the FM categorization table)




                                                                                       95

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 2 Detailed assessment checklist

2.1 Technical feasibility assessment
                       Technical rationale                     Acceptable  Non-acceptable
                                                                 (Yes)         (No)

    Adequacy of technical engineering design for project
    needs

    Suitability of technology used for project needs

    Suitability of subcontracting partners involvement

    Reliability of stated technical specifications

    Reliability of project implementation company

    Suitability/achievability of implementation schedule

    Achievability of committed energy savings and GHG
    reduction with the proposed technology / project

    Reliability of project estimated costs

    Appropriateness of the allowance for physical
    contingencies



2.2 Overall rating of the technical feasibility of the project



          Acceptable                          Non- acceptable




2.3 Rationale for technical rating




                                                                                    96

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




2.4 Financial feasibility assessment



                        Project viability                     Acceptable  Non-acceptable
                                                                (Yes)         (No)

    Positive value of NPV

    Total investment costs are covered by total savings
    released (in BGN)

    Rate of return on investments is reasonable

    Achievability of project projections

    Timing of cash flows (as a result of savings) meet
    expected repayment schedules

    Adequate collateral provided

                 Project Developer viability                  Acceptable  Non-acceptable
                                                                (Yes)         (No)

    Project Developer could meet its equity
    participation in the project financing

    Achievability of projections provided by the
    company

    Profitability of the Project Developer

    Working capital strengths

    Assets coverage of the project



2.5 Overall rating of the financial feasibility of the project



          Acceptable                          Non-acceptable




2.6 Rationale for financial rating




                                                                                    97

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




2.7 Energy efficiency and environmental feasibility assessment



      Energy efficiency and environmental viability           Acceptable     Non-acceptable
                                                                (Yes)             (No)

    Environmental compliance of the project with
    relevant regulatory framework

    Availability of environmental permits

    Project categorization is allowable / eligible for
    implementation

    Achievability of energy savings projections

    Achievability of GHGs reductions

    Reliability of energy savings calculations

    Reliability of GHGs reductions calculations



2.8 Overall rating of the energy efficiency and environmental feasibility of the project



          Acceptable                          Non- acceptable




2.9 Rationale for energy efficiency and environmental rating




                                                                                        98

    BEEF: Appendix 7 ­ Project Appraisal Report




 3 Recommendations

3.1 Major recommendations
    It is recommended that BEEF supports the project financing:




           Yes                                No




    Rationale for recommendation (please specify the grounds for the recommendation):




    Pre-approval of the project for BEEF support:




    Name and signature of the Expert Project Coordinator




    Name and signature of the Executive Director




    Date




                                                                                      99

BEEF: Appendix 8 ­ Term Sheet




          APPENDIX 9 - TERM SHEET




                                   100

   BEEF: Appendix 8 ­ Term Sheet




                                TERM SHEET                         1




   Request for financing to:


     Name of the financing institution:



1.  Borrower/ Project Developer:

     Name:



2. End-user/s




3.  Total project costs (financing structure including all sources of financing)

     Financing source               Amount in BGN         Amount in foreign currency % total


     Borrower's participation


     Supplier


     Local banks


     BEEF


     Foreign equity participation


     Others (please specify)


     Total project costs                                                               100%




    1BEEF should specify all the information provided in this document except for point 5.
   Loan details should be filled out by the financial institution.

                                                                                          101

   BEEF: Appendix 8 ­ Term Sheet




4. Total amount of finance requested (in BGN)




5. Loan details

   Maturity:




   Disbursement scheme:




   Interest rates:




   Repayment schedule:




   Collateral:




   Other specific loan terms:




                                                 102

   BEEF: Appendix 8 ­ Term Sheet




6. Proposed participation of BEEF
   Guarantee facility:

          YES                   NO




   Amount of participation (in BGN):

   As % of total project costs:

   Guarantee fee:

   Guarantee maturity:

   Guarantee position:

   Any specific terms:




   Co-financing loan:

          YES                   NO




   Amount of participation:

   As % of total project costs:

   Co-financing maturity:

   Co-financing position:

   Any specific terms:




                                        103

   BEEF: Appendix 8 ­ Term Sheet




7. Technical assistance

    Specific technical assistance description:


    Financing for technical assistance will be provided by:


    Method of disbursement of the technical assistance:


    Other specific conditions:


    Authorised account for disbursement of technical assistance:




   The financial institution and BEEF agree not to change the financing terms specified in this
   document for a period of 30 days. Exception of the rule is acceptable only when significant
   changes in the grounds for financial estimations have occurred.




   Name and signature of the authorised employee of the financial institution




   Name and signature of the Executive Director of BEEF




   Date




                                                                                          104

BEEF: Appendix 9 ­ Acceptance Letter




        APPENDIX 10 - ACCEPTANCE
                                    LETTER




                                              105

      BEEF: Appendix 9 ­ Acceptance Letter




                        ACCEPTANCE LETTER



This is to represent that:


          1. All data package provided by us is accurate, true and complete. We agree that all

              documentation provided by us will be excluded from further processing should the

              data be inaccurate and untrue.


          2. We undertake to inform BEEF of any changes in the data provided.


          3. We have not applied for subsidies, financing or grants for this particular project

              with any other public, national or international institution.


          4. We accept the financing scheme offered by BEEF and ....(name of the financing

              institution) for the energy efficiency project finanicng subject to the provisions of

              the Term Sheet signed by the financing parties.


      A copy of the Term Sheet signed by financing parities is an inseparable part of this

      document.


      We confirm the reliability of the Acceptance Letter with our signature:




      Project Developer's name and place




      Signature, name and position of the persons




                                                                                               106

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




              APPENDIX 11 - GENERAL
         FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT




                                                  107

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




             GENERAL FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT


                                              between




                                               and


                  Bulgarian Energy Efficiency Fund

                      For Energy Efficiency Projects Financing




                             Dated:




                                                                  (108)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




                                 GENERAL FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT



General Framework Agreement ("GFA" or "the Agreement") was concluded dated

_________, 2005 in Sofia, Bulgaria between:


the Bulgarian Energy Efficiency Fund, hereinafter called "BEEF" or "the Fund", represented by:


1.


2.


and


                                                                     ,


hereinafter called "the Bank", represented by:


1.


2.


for mutual cooperation in the financing of energy efficiency projects.


WHEREAS:


A) The donors of BEEF have provided funding with the purpose to support and promote

the financing of eligible energy efficiency projects.


B) The parties have agreed on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.


C) BEEF has agreed to provide partial credit guarantees on the Bank's credit exposures or

co-financing support under the provisions of this Agreement in the financing of energy

efficiency projects.


D) The Bank has agreed to provide loans for projects that are eligible for energy efficiency

financing subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the condition that the Bank's

exposure is either partially guaranteed or co-financed by BEEF.



                                                                                        (109)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




Article 1 ­ General provisions


1. Herewith, BEEF and the Bank agree to mutually cooperate in the financing of energy

    efficiency projects and to interact in compliance with the provisions outlined in this

    Agreement.


2. The Bank may apply for partial credit guarantee or co-financing support by BEEF only

    with the purpose to provide loans for the implementation of energy efficiency projects

    eligible for financing (under the eligibility criteria set forth in Article 2 of this

    Agreement).


3. BEEF declares its consent to the provisions of this Agreement and commits to provide

    energy efficiency project guarantees or co-financing support promptly as needed.


4. BEEF may refuse to provide partial credit guarantee or co-financing support if the Bank

    is not complaint with the provisions of this Agreement.


Article 2 - Eligibility criteria for financing energy efficiency projects


Herewith the parties mutually agree that energy efficiency projects subject to the provisions

of this Agreement (to be financed by the Bank and guaranteed or co-financed by BEEF)

shall comply with the eligibility criteria set forth below and qualify to a list of eligible

projects as specified in this Article, para 2:


1. Basic Eligibility Criteria


    a) Energy savings are at least 50% of the savings achieved as a result of the project;


    b) Substantial reduction in GHGs emissions is achieved as a result of the project;


    c) Proven energy saving technologies are used;


    d) The project is self-sustainable and could ensure reasonable return on investment;


    e) Payback period should be up to five years;


    f) Total project value ranges between US$ 50,000 ­ US$ 2,000,000;



                                                                                         (110)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




   g) Borrower's equity participation in the project financing exceeds 10%;


   h) Projects are in compliance with the provisions of the Bulgarian Environmental

       Protection Act and have all environmental permits required by the Bulgarian

       Environmental Authorities;


A list of indicative eligible energy efficiency projects is provided in Enclosure 1 to this

Agreement.


Article 3 ­ Partial Credit Guarantees


1. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, BEEF agrees to provide partial credit

   guarantees in favour of the Bank to cover partially its exposures and thus support the

   financing of eligible EE projects.


2. Partial credit guarantees will be provided in favour of the Banks with the only purpose

   to enhance the credit risk of the particular project and mitigate the operational

   performance risk of the borrower. Standard provisions of the guarantee facility to be

   provided by BEEF to the Bank will be based on the following principles:


   - Maximum coverage of 70% on pari passu basis or 30% on a first loss basis;


   - Maximum length of tenor up to five years;


   - Coverage defined in terms of the total outstanding exposure, the principal or the

       interest due by the borrower;


   - Accelerable or non-accelerable partial credit guarantees, depending on the specific

       characteristics of the EE project;


   - Guarantee call conditions will be specified on an project-by-project basis;


   - The Bank will be charged annual guarantee fee reflecting risk characteristics of the

       specific project and the level of security or collateral provided. In any case

       guarantee fee may not exceed .....% of the facility provided.




                                                                                         (111)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




3. The terms and conditions of each separate guarantee facility will be defined and

   specified in the individual transaction agreement to be signed between the parties for

   each particular project.


4. BEEF shall not support in any other form the financing of a particular energy efficiency

   project, which is subject to the provision of guarantee facility on behalf of the Fund.


5. The guarantee will be effective from the date of its issue. The guarantee can be

   cancelled at any time at the discretion of the Bank or the borrower.


6. In case of guarantee call enforcement, BEEF shall authorize the Bank to withdraw

   funds from account No.... of the ......(bank name) with the amount specified in the

   individual transaction agreement for the purpose of securing loans provided by the

   Bank to the project borrower under the provisions of this Agreement.


Article 4 ­ Co-financing support


1.   Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, BEEF agrees to provide a co-financing

     support to the Bank on a non-commingled basis for co-financing of eligible EE

     projects.


2.   Co-financing support will be arranged with the purpose to decrease the level of

     perceived risk by sharing it plus removing the liquidity barrier to EE financing.


3.   Standard provisions of the co-financing support to be provided by BEEF will be

     based on the following principles:


   - Maximum length of tenor up to five years;


   - Loans will be structured in a co-financing mode as parallel financing of two parties

       (the Fund and the Bank); where BEEF will cover up to 50% of the total project

       value on senior loan position or 30% on subordinated loan position;


   - Parallel co-financing on a non-commingled basis, with each co-financing party

       retaining control over its own funds and their disbursement.




                                                                                          (112)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




4.   The Fund shall not provide in any form:


   - Credit line facilities to the Bank;


   - Any other form of refinancing to the Bank;


   - Project financing on a stand-alone basis.


5.   The terms and conditions of each separate loan, provided as a co-finanicng by BEEF,

     will be defined and specified in the individual transaction agreement to be signed

     between the parties for each particular project.


6.   Loan disbursements on behalf of BEEF will be made via a Special Account following

     approval for disbursement on behalf of the Management Board of the Fund and the

     World Bank.


7.   The loan will be effective from the date of its disbursement. The loan may not be

     sold, assigned or otherwise transferred without prior written consent of BEEF.


8.   In the case of loss payment on the obligation arising from an individual loan

     agreement, concluded by any of the parties and an eligible borrower, the party shall

     enforce its claims directly from the Eligible Borrower.


Article 5 - Application and approval procedure


   1. Two major application and approval procedures will be followed in the application

       and approval of guarantee facility / co-financing support provided by BEEF:

       a simplified and a standard procedure.


   2. Simplified procedure: The proposal is initiated and presented by BEEF and the

       project feasibility analysis and risk assessment are performed by the Fund. The

       Fund then approaches the Bank with a Term Sheet for the particular project under

       specified conditions for BEEF's support. The Fund submits information package to

       the Bank that includes details on project analysis and comprehensive credit

       assessment performed under the project application procedures of the Fund.




                                                                                     (113)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




       Documents for analysis and assessment of the projects employed by the Fund shall

       be enclosed as Enclosures to this Agreement. The Bank is entitled to perform

       additional analysis and assessment procedures in accordance with its internal rules

       and regulations.


  3. Standard procedure: The proposal is initiated and presented by the Bank and the

       project feasibility analysis and risk assessment are performed by the Bank. The

       Bank approaches the Fund with a Term Sheet for co-financing support or guarantee

       facility to share/cover its exposure to a particular project. The Bank submits an

       information package to the Fund that includes details on project analysis and

       comprehensive credit assessment performed under the project application

       procedures of the Bank.


       Documents for analysis and assessment of projects employed by the Bank shall be

       enclosed as in the Enclosures to this document. The Fund is entitled to perform

       additional analysis and assessment procedures in accordance with its internal rules

       and regulations.


  4. BEEF will finance energy efficiency projects only on a co- financing basis.


  5. Both parties are entitled to initiate and accept project proposals.


  6. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete Term Sheet the respective party shall issue

       a written notice indicating that the proposal is:


  - Approved;


  - Rejected;


  - Suspended with the purpose to collect additional information as appropriate.




                                                                                      (114)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




   7. The notice has a validity of 15 days. Within this timeframe the respective party

       should:


   - Provide the additional information required;


   - Present an individual transaction agreement to be signed.


   8. If the approached party accepts the Term Sheet subject to the participation of the

       counterparty then the specific provisions of the particular guarantee facility/

       co-financing support shall be additionally defined in the individual transaction

       agreement to be signed by the parties. The individual transaction agreement shall be

       based on a signed Term Sheet that specifies major terms and conditions of the

       facility/ support between the parties.


   9. The provisions of the individual transaction agreement shall be enforceable

       provided the signing of the particular loan agreement between the borrower and the

       Bank. In case this loan agreement is not signed within a period of 15 days from

       execution of the individual transaction agreement, its validity will be terminated.


   10. The signoff of the individual transaction agreements specified above is a conditional

       for disbursement of the financing.


Article 6 ­ Monitoring and Reporting Obligations of the Parties


   1. BEEF and the Bank agree to collaborate in connection with the exchange of

       information with the purpose of comprehensive credit assessment and feasibility

       analysis of mutually supported energy efficiency projects.


   2. The parties are obliged to provide any and all information at the request of the

       counterparty under this Agreement concerning the eligible project and/or borrowers

       considered for financing and support.




                                                                                         (115)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




  3. The Bank shall conduct monitoring on a quarterly basis with respect to the

       performance status of the co-financed and/or guaranteed loan exposures and inform

       BEEF about the servicing of the particular loan obligations by sending relevant

       information according to the form enclosed to this Agreement (for reference see

       Appendix 12 of the OM).


  4. The parties shall be required to prepare a monitoring and verification reports as set

       forth in the audit and verification requirements pursuant to each particular loan

       agreement for each energy efficiency project that is subject to this Agreement. The

       party having a senior position of claim realistion/reimbursement shall be the party

       to responsible to initiate the conduction and preparation of those reports. In any

       case, these reports shall be provided for information to the counterparty in the co-

       financing scheme. The monitoring reports should be prepared at least quarterly and

       verification reports at least annually or more frequently as appropriate.


  5. The preparation of monitoring and verification reports shall be carried out either

       with Technical Assistance funds as outlined in Article 7 of this Agreement or shall

       be borne by the parties pro rata to their share in the overall exposure.


  6. The results of the monitoring and verification reports for each energy efficiency

       project funded by a loan under this Agreement, shall be submitted to the

       counterparty within a period of five days following their preparation.


  7. All monitoring and verification reports shall be performed and prepared by

       reputable licensed certifiers mutually agreed by the parties.


  8. Both parties are obliged to provide any other information and data, which may be

       reasonably requested by the counterparty to confirm the energy and cost savings

       achieved by a particular energy efficiency project funded under this Agreement.


  9. In order to facilitate the exchange of information within the scope of this

       Agreement, the Bank shall appoint ___________________________ (names,

       contact information) as the person responsible for providing all relevant

       information.



                                                                                       (116)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




Article 7 - Technical Assistance


1.   Technical Assistance may be provided by the Fund to the Bank in the following three

     major areas:


         a) support for project identification, development and financing;


         b) assistance in technical assessment and verification; and


         c) staff training.


2.   Under the provision of this Agreement, BEEF shall make available in-kind

     professional expert assistance and/or direct funding of activities from the Technical

     Assistance component that cover the following major areas:


        a) Environmental and energy audits;


        b) Performance of project feasibility studies;


        c) Verifications of project results;


        d) Pooling of projects;


        e) Organization of workshops and conferences that are oriented to providing

            training on energy efficiency project management risk, proper assessment

            system, project application procedures and all other activities as appropriate.


3.   Technical Assistance shall be provided both as direct financing, on a reimbursement

     basis, or in the form of expert financial and business advisory assistance from BEEF

     staff.


4.   Parameters of Technical Assistance including scope, amount and method of provision

     will be specified in the individual transaction agreements signed between the parties.


5.   The Technical Assistance is non-revolving in nature and limited in scale and shall be

     made available until exhausted.




                                                                                          (117)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




Article 8 ­ Duration, termination, amendments and extension of the GFA


1.   The current General Framework Agreement is concluded for a period of one year

     following its signoff.


2.   This Agreement may be terminated at the request of either party upon three-month

     notice or upon its expiry. In case of an early termination, the validity of individual

     transaction agreements signed beforehand and pursuant to this Agreement shall not be

     affected in any manner.


3.   The activities of the Bank subject to the provision of this Agreement may be reviewed

     for compliance by the Fund. If a non-compliance is identified then the Fund shall

     send a notice of non-compliance following which the Bank shall have a period of 30

     days to cure the identified deficiencies in its performance. If the deficiencies have not

     been remedied to the satisfaction of Fund at the expiration of the 30-day period, then

     the Fund may suspend the performance of this Agreement.


4.   This Agreement is subject to periodic review and may be amended and/or extended

     for another period of one year.


5.   All amendments pursuant to this Agreement require written form in order to be valid.


6.   This Agreement was drawn up in two identical counterparts with each party receiving

     one counterpart.




                                                                                          (118)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




For                                                        (The Bank)




Seals & signatures of persons acting on behalf of the Bank




For Bulgarian Energy Efficiency Fund




Seals & signatures of persons acting on behalf of BEEF




                                                                         (119)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




Enclosure 1 ­ List of indicative eligible energy efficiency projects


- Investments in improved EE in industrial processes including but not limited to:


  o Purchase of equipment, machines and tools;


  o Technical assistance and advice for proper instalment of the purchased equipment;


  o Training of staff in proper usage of the equipment and new technologies;


  o Transportation and logistical support;

- Rehabilitation of buildings in all sectors, including but not limited to industrial,

  commercial, multifamily residential, single family residential, government and

  municipal buildings at all levels, health care facilities, schools, universities and cultural

  facilities. The rehabilitation should be directed towards improving EE, including but

  not limited to:


  o Modernization of heat exchanger substations;


  o Heating insulation, including new thermally insulated doors and windows, roof,

       ceiling and wall insulation;


  o Solar window treatment and passive solar devices;


  o Improvements to mechanical heating ventilation and air conditioning such as

       customized controls and energy management systems, high-efficiency motors,

       variable-speed drive motor controls;


  o Improvements to interior and exterior lighting such as retrofitting of existing lamps

       and ballasts to high efficiency equivalents, addition of automatic lighting controls

       (i.e. timer or motion sensors);


- Improvements to the heat source and distribution system, including, but not limited to:


  o New high-efficiency boilers and burners;


  o Automatic boiler control systems;


                                                                                           (120)

BEEF: Appendix 10 ­ General Framewor Agreement




  o Separate domestic hot water heaters for summer usage;


  o Substantial efficiency-driven modernization of existing boilers;


  o Boiler heat recovery devices;


  o New heat exchangers or substantial renovation of existing ones;


  o New main valves and steam taps or substantial renovation of existing ones;


  o New distribution piping or radiators;


  o New metering equipment;


  o Thermostatic radiator valves;


  o Pipe insulation in networks;


  o Cogeneration systems;


  o High efficiency fossil fuel or electric-powered heat pumps.

- Rehabilitation of municipal facilities (e.g. street lighting);


- Other energy end-use applications, including but not limited to:


  o Energy management control systems;


  o Power factor correction measures;


  o Air compressors;


  o Fuel switching.




                                                                                 (121)

BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




               APPENDIX 12 - PROJECT
                REALIZATION REPORT




                                                  (122)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




      PROJECT REALIZATION REPORT

                              For three months period ended......


 1 General information of the Project Developer and project
   description

1.1 Name and contact details

    Name:




    Address:




    Tel:                                Fax:              E-mail:


    Contact Person:


    Tel:                                E-mail:



1.2 Description of the project




                                                                     (123)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




 2 Project economics and implementation

2.1 Total project costs

     Item                                               BGN         Foreign     % of total

                                                                    currency


     Feasibility study


     Equipment


     Construction and installation works


     Management fee


     Other (please specify)


     Total



2.2 Actual nergy savings

      Project period          Baleline estimates     Actual monitored   Monitored savings


                                         (A)                (B)             (C=A-B)


     Energy (in toe)




    Note: Detailed calculations of the actual energy savings achieved shuld be presented
    in a stand-alone summary report prepared in accordance with the methodology
    presented in Appendix 6.




                                                                                     (124)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




2.3 Actual compared to estimates

      Project period          Actual monitored      Estimates for the period   Variance


                                         (B)                  (D)              (E=B-D)


    Energy (in toe)



2.4 Explanation for any variances in energy savings




2.5 Actual GHG emission reduction

      Project period          Baleline estimates    Actual monitored    Monitored reduction


                                         (A)               (B)               (C=A-B)


    Emissions (in

    KtCO2)



    Note: Detailed calculations of the actual GHG emissions reduction achieved should be
    presented in stand-alone summary report prepared in accordance with the
    methodology presented in Appendix 6.




                                                                                     (125)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




2.6 Implementation and disbursement for the period

                      Item                        Actual for the Estimated for  Variance

                                                     period       the period




2.7 Explanation of any variance in the implementation and disbursement




2.8 Any changes in contingency costs incurred in the period




                                                                                     (126)

     BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




 2.9 Summary of the procurement procedures related to the project to date, including a
     summary of the equipment actually procured and installed




2.10 Project cash flows in the period

      Item                                         Actual for the Estimated for Variance

                                                   period         the period


      Project investment


      Energy savings


      Other benefits (savings,

      incremental revenue)


      Net reduction / (increase) in

      maintenance costs


      Depreciation and amortization of

      project assets




                                                                                       (127)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




 3 Details of the Project Developer's operations

3.1 Financial information (please fill out the data based on financial statements)
    Profit and loss details


                   Item                       Actual for the period


    Sales

    Operating costs

    Operating profit

    Financial income

    Financial costs

    Net profit



    Fixed assets and working capital details


                   Item                       Actual for the period

    Fixed assets

    Inventory

    Receivables

    Payables



    Debt details


    Item                                     Actual for the period

    Long- term debt

    Short- term debt




                                                                                   (128)

BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




Declaration on information reliability




Hereby we declare and guarantee that all information provided here and in any other

documents enclosed herewith is true and accurate, provided that such information is

available. We confirm that we have read and fully understood the contents of the Project

Realization Report.




Name and signature of the legal representative




Date and stamp




                                                                                    (129)

BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




         Declaration on consent to provide
     information to co-financing partners



Hereby we declare our consent that BEEF could transfer/ release the above information to

the interested partners with the purpose of reporting and analysing the performance of the

project. Partners could be financial institutions, ESCOs, etc.


We give BEEF the right to contact any person or company/ institution (including suppliers

and clients) that could offer information useful for the reporting and verification of the data

provided.




Name and signature of the legal representative




Date and stamp




                                                                                           (130)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




                 GUIDELINES TO PROJECT
                    REALIZATION REPORT
                                   COMPLETION

 1 General information of the Project Developer and project
    description

1.1 Name and contact details
    Please specify the full legal name of the Project Developer. Specify the address of the
    Project Developer and the contact person, which should have authority to act on behalf of
    the Project Developer to explain details for this report.

1.2 Description of the project
    Please specify details of the project and note a few salient points. Provide information on
    the current status of the project. Avoid too technical details when describing.

 2 Project economics and implementation

2.1 Total project costs
    Please specify different project cost categories as a percentage of total project costs (in
    BGN and in foreign currency). Total project costs include estimates of the costs of all raw
    materials, technology, equipment, assets, goods and fees that will be needed in order the
    project to be completed.

2.2 Actual energy savings
    Actual energy savings should come from the calculations performed in the stand-alone
    summry report that summarizes the actual energy savings and GHG emissions reductions
    achieved by the project at the time of reporting. The underlying calculations in the report
    should be in accordance with the methodology presented in Appendix 6.

2.3 Actual compared to estimates
    This table compares actual energy savings (above) to the initial estimates to date and
    calculates the resulting variance.

2.4 Explanation for any variances in energy savings
    Please specify details on the variances for above stated actual and estimated energy
    savings. Describe any evaluation methods that you have applied to reach these results.




                                                                                                (131)

     BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




2.5  Actual GHG emissions reduction
     Actual GHG emissions reduction should come from the calculations performed in the
     stand-alone summry report that summarizes the actual energy savings and GHG
     emissions reductions achieved by the project at the time of reporting. The underlying
     calculations in the report should be in accordance with the methodology presented in
     Appendix 6.

2.6  Implementation and disbursement for the period
     You should specify the actual, estimated and the variance data for the implementation and
     disbursement timetable which describes in chronological order the major payments that
     must be made in order to complete the project. These payments should correspond to
     specific phases in the project. The major disbursements are payments to specific entities,
     mainly contractors, sub- contractors and suppliers.

2.7  Explanation of any variance in the implementation and disbursement
     Please specify the reasons for the above stated variances in the implementation and
     disbursement timetable.

2.8  Any changes in contingency costs incurred in the period
     Contingency costs represent the cost for events outside the control of the company, built
     into the project costs in order to help ensure that project funding will be available in case
     of these events.

     You should provide information on: the nature of the contingency costs; their justification;
     reasons for overrun contingent costs (in any).

2.9  Summary of the procurement procedures related to the project to date
     You should provide information on the procurement procedures applied to date in respect
     of equipment related to the project. The provided information should bear evidence to the
     fact that all procedures have been compliant with the WB requirements (e.g. a minimum of
     three supplier offers). You should also provide a summary of the equipment actually
     procured and installed.

2.10 Project cash flows in the period
     Please state:

         · The project investment, being the total cost of the installed equipment;

         · Energy savings as stated above;

         · Other incremental revenue due to the project and additional benefits to energy
             savings generated by the investment;

         · Additional/ reduction in maintenance costs, being the net additional costs or the net
             cost reductions to operate and maintain the newly installed equipment.

                                                                                                 (132)

    BEEF: Appendix 11 ­ Project Realization Report




 3 Details of the project company operations

3.1 Financial information (please fill in the data based on the financial statements)
    Please fill in the summarized tables: Profit and Loss Details; Fixed assets and working
    capital details; Debt details.

    Use the quarterly Financial Statements.




                                                                                            (133)

BEEF: Appendix 12 ­ Report Form on Performance Status of Loan Agreements




  APPENDIX 13 - REPORT FORM ON
 PERFORMANCE STATUS OF LOAN
                              AGREEMENTS




                                                                            (134)

  BEEF: Appendix 12 ­ Report Form on Performance Status of Loan Agreements




       REPORT FORM ON PERFORMANCE
           STATUS OF LOAN AGREEMENTS

    Information on the status of Loan Agreements under the Guarantee
                                    Framework Agreement


  Loan agreement dated:                                     Number:



1 Borrower

  Name:



2 Amount of the loan




3 Financing structure

  Financing source                   Amount in BGN           Amount in foreign currency % total


  Borrower's participation


  Supplier


  Local banks


  Foreign equity participation


  Others (please specify)


  Total financing                                                                       100%



                                                                                          (135)

  BEEF: Appendix 12 ­ Report Form on Performance Status of Loan Agreements




4 Designation of funds




5 Degree of utilization of funds as of the date of preparing the
  information




6 Degree of completion of the energy efficiency project




7 Delay in the implementation of the energy efficiency project




8 Material obstacles to the progress of the energy efficiency project




                                                                              (136)

   BEEF: Appendix 12 ­ Report Form on Performance Status of Loan Agreements




 9 Security for repayment of the loan




10 Amount of the loan guarantee outstanding




11 Performance of the obligations by the borrower




12 Delays in the performance of the loan agreement




13 Delays in the repayment of principal instalments




                                                                               (137)

   BEEF: Appendix 12 ­ Report Form on Performance Status of Loan Agreements




14 Delays in the payment of interest




15 Information about the use of security instruments other than the
   loan guarantee




16 Information about call of the loan guarantee




17 Information about the financial condition of the borrower during
   the term of the loan




                                                                               (138)

   BEEF: Appendix 12 ­ Report Form on Performance Status of Loan Agreements




18 Other substantial information that may affect the performance of
   the loan agreement or its repayment.




   Name and signature of the authorised for preparation of the information employee (Bank)




   Date




                                                                                        (139)

BEEF: Appendix 13 ­ Procurement Plan and Timetable




     APPENDIX 14 ­ PROCUREMENT
                PLAN AND TIMETABLE




                                                      (140)

      BEEF: Appendix 13 ­ Procurement Plan and Timetable




                                              Table 1: BEEF Procurement Plan


              1                        2                   3                   4                  5                      6
         Description                Contract          Number of          Estimated        GEF financing to         Procurement
                                     Type           Contracts/Lots       cost, US$        be allocated, US$           Method
Fund Manager                          CS                   1               1,050,000                 890,000           QCBS
Financial Audit                       CS                   1                  300,000                260,000            LCS
Miscellaneous Advisory                CS                   3                  100,000                 90,000             IC
services
Marketing and Other Sub-              CS                   2                  350,000                 90,000             CQ

Project Development and
Project Management Services
Incremental Operating Costs          Misc.           According to             300,000                170,000           Other
                                                       annually
                                                  approved budget


Works and Goods financed           CW, G, SI          Unlimited                              Up to 8,500,000    ICB for contracts >

under BEEF Subloans1                                                                                            US$3 million;
                                                                                                                NCB for contracts
                                                                                                                between
                                                                                                                US$1million and
                                                                                                                US$3 million;
                                                                                                                PCP for contracts
                                                                                                                less than US$1
                                                                                                                million
TOTAL                                                                                             10,000,000


      Notes:
          1) This table allows the possibility that the entire amount of US$8.5m allocated by GEF for capitalization of
               BEEF may be used for subloans. For subloans, the applicable methods of procurement depend on the size
               of the contract, as specified in the last column of the table. In the case of guarantees, procurement through
               PCP is allowed regardless of the size of the contract.

      CS = consultant services
      CW = civil works
      G = goods
      SI = supply and installation
      QCBS = quality and cost based selection
      LCS = least cost selection
      IC = individual consultants
      CQ = consultants' qualifications
      ICB = international competitive bidding
      NCB = national competitive bidding
      PCP = prudent commercial practices




                                                                                                                    (141)

       BEEF: Appendix 13 ­ Procurement Plan and Timetable




                                   Table 2: Stages and Timetable of the Procurement Plan


      1           2                                                    3 Estimated Dates
  Description   Type    Pre-qual/SL                 (BD/RFP)             Bid                      Contract Signing Contract
                        1. Invitation GPN/SPN/Local 1. Prepara-tion      RFP                                       Completion
                        2. EOI received                                  1. RFP issued
                        3. Short list                                    2. Proposals received
                                                                         3. Eval & Recom Award
Fund Manager    CS      May 2004                    October 2004         October 2004             January 2005     December 2008
                        August 2004                                      November 2004
                        September 2004                                   December 2004
Financial       CS      September 2005              November 2005       December 2005             February 2006    December 2008
Audit                   October 2005                                     January 2006
                        October 2005                                     February 2006
Miscellaneous   CS      TBD                         TBD                  TBD                      TBD              December 2008
advisory
services
                CS      TBD                         TBD                  TBD                      TBD              December 2008
Marketing and

Other Sub-

Project

Development

and Project

Management

Services
                Misc.                 NA                     NA                       NA                NA         December 2008
Incremental

Operating

Costs
                CW,
Works and       G,
Goods           S&I

financed under

sub-loans1

TOTAL


         Note: (1) For sub-loans, the applicable methods of procurement depend on the size of the contract, as specified in
       the previous table. In the case of partial credit guarantees, procurement through PCP is allowed regardless of the
       size of the contract.

       CS = consultant services
       CW = civil works
       G = goods
       SI = supply and installation
       QCBS = quality and cost based selection
       LCS = least cost selection
       IC = individual consultants
       CQ = consultants' qualifications
       ICB = international competitive bidding
       NCB = national competitive bidding
       PCP = prudent commercial practices




                                                                                                                  (142)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




          APPENDIX 15 ­ WORLD BANK
           OPERATIONAL POLICIES ON
      ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT




                                                                                   (143)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




This World Bank Operational Policy is current at the time of drafting of the Operations Manual.
The FM and Project Developer should ensure that they use the latest versions of Operational and
Safeguard Policies at the time of application for support.


                                                                                                       OP 4.01
                                                                                                  January 1999




These policies were prepared for use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a complete
treatment of the subject.


                           Environmental Assessment

                                  Note: OP and BP 4.01 together replace OMS 2.36, Environmental Aspects
                                  of Bank Work; OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment; OD 4.00,
                                  Annex B, Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects; OD 4.01,
                                  Environmental Assessment; and the following Operational Memoranda:
                                  Environmental Assessments: Instructions to Staff on the Handling of the
                                  Borrower's Consultations with Affected Groups and Relevant Local NGOs,
                                  4/10/90; Environmental Assessments: Instructions to Staff on the Release of
                                  Environmental Assessments to Executive Directors, 11/21/90; and Release of
                                  Environmental Assessments to Executive Directors, 2/20/91. Additional
                                  information related to these statements is provided in the Environmental
                                  Assessment Sourcebook (Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 1991) and
                                  subsequent updates available from the Environment Sector Board, and in
                                  the Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook. Other Bank statements
                                  that relate to the environment include OP/BP 4.02, Environmental Action
                                  Plans; OP/BP 4.04, Natural Habitats; OP 4.07, Water Resources
                                  Management; OP 4.09, Pest Management; OP 4.11, Safeguarding Cultural
                                  Property in Bank-Financed Projects (forthcoming); OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary
                                  Resettlement (forthcoming); OP/GP 4.36, Forestry; OP/BP 10.04, Economic
                                  Evaluation of Investment Operations; and OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples. This
                                  OP and BP apply to all projects for which a PID is first issued after March
                                  1, 1999. Questions may be addressed to the Chair, Environment Sector
                                  Board.


1. The Bank1 requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank financing to help ensure that
they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus to improve decision making.




                                                                                                     (144)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




2. EA is a process whose breadth, depth, and type of analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential
environmental impact of the proposed project. EA evaluates a project's potential environmental risks and impacts in
its area of influence;2 examines project alternatives; identifies ways of improving project selection, siting, planning,
design, and implementation by preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse environmental
impacts and enhancing positive impacts; and includes the process of mitigating and managing adverse
environmental impacts throughout project implementation. The Bank favors preventive measures over mitigatory or
compensatory measures, whenever feasible.


3. EA takes into account the natural environment (air, water, and land); human health and safety; social aspects
(involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property);3 and transboundary and global environmental
aspects.4 EA considers natural and social aspects in an integrated way. It also takes into account the variations in
project and country conditions; the findings of country environmental studies; national environmental action plans;
the country's overall policy framework, national legislation, and institutional capabilities related to the environment
and social aspects; and obligations of the country, pertaining to project activities, under relevant international
environmental treaties and agreements. The Bank does not finance project activities that would contravene such
country obligations, as identified during the EA. EA is initiated as early as possible in project processing and is
integrated closely with the economic, financial, institutional, social, and technical analyses of a proposed project.


4. The borrower is responsible for carrying out the EA. For Category A projects,5 the borrower retains independent
EA experts not affiliated with the project to carry out the EA.6 For Category A projects that are highly risky or
contentious or that involve serious and multidimensional environmental concerns, the borrower should normally
also engage an advisory panel of independent, internationally recognized environmental specialists to advise on all
aspects of the project relevant to the EA.7 The role of the advisory panel depends on the degree to which project
preparation has progressed, and on the extent and quality of any EA work completed, at the time the Bank begins to
consider the project.


5. The Bank advises the borrower on the Bank's EA requirements. The Bank reviews the findings and
recommendations of the EA to determine whether they provide an adequate basis for processing the project for
Bank financing. When the borrower has completed or partially completed EA work prior to the Bank's involvement
in a project, the Bank reviews the EA to ensure its consistency with this policy. The Bank may, if appropriate,
require additional EA work, including public consultation and disclosure.


6. The Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook describes pollution prevention and abatement measures and
emission levels that are normally acceptable to the Bank. However, taking into account borrower country legislation
and local conditions, the EA may recommend alternative emission levels and approaches to pollution prevention
and abatement for the project. The EA report must provide full and detailed justification for the levels and
approaches chosen for the particular project or site.


                                                   EA Instruments


7. Depending on the project, a range of instruments can be used to satisfy the Bank's EA requirement:
environmental impact assessment (EIA), regional or sectoral EA, environmental audit, hazard or risk assessment,
and environmental management plan (EMP).8 EA applies one or more of these instruments, or elements of them, as
appropriate. When the project is likely to have sectoral or regional impacts, sectoral or regional EA is required.9




                                                                                                              (145)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




                                               Environmental Screening


8. The Bank undertakes environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the appropriate extent and
type of EA. The Bank classifies the proposed project into one of four categories, depending on the type, location,
sensitivity, and scale of the project and the nature and magnitude of its potential environmental impacts.
                   (a) Category A: A proposed project is classified as Category A if it is likely to have significant
                   adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive,10 diverse, or unprecedented. These impacts
                   may affect an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical works. EA for a Category
                   A project examines the project's potential negative and positive environmental impacts, compares
                   them with those of feasible alternatives (including the "without project" situation), and
                   recommends any measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse
                   impacts and improve environmental performance. For a Category A project, the borrower is
                   responsible for preparing a report, normally an EIA (or a suitably comprehensive regional or
                   sectoral EA) that includes, as necessary, elements of the other instruments referred to in para. 7.


                   (b) Category B: A proposed project is classified as Category B if its potential adverse
                   environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas--including
                   wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats--are less adverse than those of Category
                   A projects. These impacts are site-specific; few if any of them are irreversible; and in most cases
                   mitigatory measures can be designed more readily than for Category A projects. The scope of EA
                   for a Category B project may vary from project to project, but it is narrower than that of Category
                   A EA. Like Category A EA, it examines the project's potential negative and positive
                   environmental impacts and recommends any measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or
                   compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance. The findings and
                   results of Category B EA are described in the project documentation (Project Appraisal Document
                   and Project Information Document).11


                   (c) Category C: A proposed project is classified as Category C if it is likely to have minimal or no
                   adverse environmental impacts.
                   Beyond screening, no further EA action is required for a Category C project.
                   (d) Category FI: A proposed project is classified as Category FI if it involves investment of Bank
                   funds through a financial intermediary, in subprojects that may result in adverse environmental
                   impacts.


                                             EA for Special Project Types


Sector Investment Lending


9. For sector investment loans (SILs),12 during the preparation of each proposed subproject, the project
coordinating entity or implementing institution carries out appropriate EA according to country requirements and
the requirements of this policy.13 The Bank appraises and, if necessary, includes in the SIL components to
strengthen, the capabilities of the coordinating entity or the implementing institution to (a) screen subprojects, (b)
obtain the necessary expertise to carry out EA, (c) review all findings and results of EA for individual subprojects,
(d) ensure implementation of mitigation measures (including, where applicable, an EMP), and (e) monitor
environmental conditions during project implementation.14 If the Bank is not satisfied that adequate capacity exists
for carrying out EA, all Category A subprojects and, as appropriate, Category B subprojects--including any EA
reports--are subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.



                                                                                                             (146)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




Sector Adjustment Lending


10. Sector adjustment loans (SECALs) are subject to the requirements of this policy. EA for a SECAL assesses the
potential environmental impacts of planned policy, institutional, and regulatory actions under the loan.15


Financial Intermediary Lending


11. For a financial intermediary (FI) operation, the Bank requires that each FI screen proposed subprojects and
ensure that subborrowers carry out appropriate EA for each subproject. Before approving a subproject, the FI
verifies (through its own staff, outside experts, or existing environmental institutions) that the subproject meets the
environmental requirements of appropriate national and local authorities and is consistent with this OP and other
applicable environmental policies of the Bank.16


12. In appraising a proposed FI operation, the Bank reviews the adequacy of country environmental requirements
relevant to the project and the proposed EA arrangements for subprojects, including the mechanisms and
responsibilities for environmental screening and review of EA results. When necessary, the Bank ensures that the
project includes components to strengthen such EA arrangements. For FI operations expected to have Category A
subprojects, prior to the Bank's appraisal each identified participating FI provides to the Bank a written assessment
of the institutional mechanisms (including, as necessary, identification of measures to strengthen capacity) for its
subproject EA work.17 If the Bank is not satisfied that adequate capacity exists for carrying out EA, all Category A
subprojects and, as appropriate, Category B subprojects--including EA reports--are subject to prior review and
approval by the Bank.18


Emergency Recovery Projects
13. The policy set out in OP 4.01 normally applies to emergency recovery projects processed under OP
8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance. However, when compliance with any requirement of this policy
would prevent the effective and timely achievement of the objectives of an emergency recovery project,
the Bank may exempt the project from such a requirement. The justification for any such exemption is
recorded in the loan documents. In all cases, however, the Bank requires at a minimum that (a) the extent
to which the emergency was precipitated or exacerbated by inappropriate environmental practices be
determined as part of the preparation of such projects, and (b) any necessary corrective measures be built
into either the emergency project or a future lending operation.
                                                Institutional Capacity


14. When the borrower has inadequate legal or technical capacity to carry out key EA-related functions (such as
review of EA, environmental monitoring, inspections, or management of mitigatory measures) for a proposed
project, the project includes components to strengthen that capacity.


                                                  Public Consultation


15. For all Category A and B projects proposed for IBRD or IDA financing, during the EA process, the borrower
consults project-affected groups and local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) about the project's
environmental aspects and takes their views into account.19 The borrower initiates such consultations as early as
possible. For Category A projects, the borrower consults these groups at least twice: (a) shortly after environmental
screening and before the terms of reference for the EA are finalized; and (b) once a draft EA report is prepared. In
addition, the borrower consults with such groups throughout project implementation as necessary to address EA-
related issues that affect them.20



                                                                                                              (147)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




                                                      Disclosure


16. For meaningful consultations between the borrower and project-affected groups and local NGOs on all Category
A and B projects proposed for IBRD or IDA financing, the borrower provides relevant material in a timely manner
prior to consultation and in a form and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being
consulted.


17. For a Category A project, the borrower provides for the initial consultation a summary of the proposed project's
objectives, description, and potential impacts; for consultation after the draft EA report is prepared, the borrower
provides a summary of the EA's conclusions. In addition, for a Category A project, the borrower makes the draft EA
report available at a public place accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs. For SILs and FI operations,
the borrower/FI ensures that EA reports for Category A subprojects are made available in a public place accessible
to affected groups and local NGOs.


18. Any separate Category B report for a project proposed for IDA financing is made available to project-affected
groups and local NGOs. Public availability in the borrowing country and official receipt by the Bank of Category A
reports for projects proposed for IBRD or IDA financing, and of any Category B EA report for projects proposed
for IDA funding, are prerequisites to Bank appraisal of these projects.


19. Once the borrower officially transmits the Category A EA report to the Bank, the Bank distributes the summary
(in English) to the executive directors (EDs) and makes the report available through its InfoShop. Once the
borrower officially transmits any separate Category B EA report to the Bank, the Bank makes it available through
its InfoShop.21 If the borrower objects to the Bank's releasing an EA report through the World Bank InfoShop,
Bank staff (a) do not continue processing an IDA project, or (b) for an IBRD project, submit the issue of further
processing to the EDs.


                                                   Implementation


20. During project implementation, the borrower reports on (a) compliance with measures agreed with the Bank on
the basis of the findings and results of the EA, including implementation of any EMP, as set out in the project
documents; (b) the status of mitigatory measures; and (c) the findings of monitoring programs. The Bank bases
supervision of the project's environmental aspects on the findings and recommendations of the EA, including
measures set out in the legal agreements, any EMP, and other project documents.22


____________


         1. "Bank" includes IDA; "EA" refers to the entire process set out in OP/BP 4.01; "loans" includes credits;
         "borrower" includes, for guarantee operations, a private or public project sponsor receiving from another
         financial institution a loan guaranteed by the Bank; and "project" covers all operations financed by Bank
         loans or guarantees except structural adjustment loans (for which the environmental provisions are set out
         in OP/BP 8.60, Adjustment Lending, forthcoming) and debt and debt service operations, and also includes
         projects under adaptable lending--adaptable program loans (APLs) and learning and innovation loans
         (LILs)--and projects and components funded under the Global Environment Facility. The project is
         described in Schedule 2 to the Loan/Credit Agreement. This policy applies to all components of the
         project, regardless of the source of financing.


         2. For definitions, see Annex A. The area of influence for any project is determined with the advice of
         environmental specialists and set out in the EA terms of reference.
         3. See OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement (forthcoming); OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples; and OP 4.11,
                                                                                                             (148)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




       Safeguarding Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects (forthcoming).
       4. Global environmental issues include climate change, ozone-depleting substances, pollution of
       international waters, and adverse impacts on biodiversity.
       5. For screening, see para. 8.
       6. EA is closely integrated with the project's economic, financial, institutional, social, and technical
       analyses to ensure that (a) environmental considerations are given adequate weight in project selection,
       siting, and design decisions; and (b) EA does not delay project processing. However, the borrower ensures
       that when individuals or entities are engaged to carry out EA activities, any conflict of interest is avoided.
       For example, when an independent EA is required, it is not carried out by the consultants hired to prepare
       the engineering design.
       7. The panel (which is different from the dam safety panel required under OP/ BP 4.37, Safety of Dams)
       advises the borrower specifically on the following aspects: (a) the terms of reference for the EA, (b) key
       issues and methods for preparing the EA, (c) recommendations and findings of the EA, (d) implementation
       of the EA's recommendations, and (e) development of environmental management capacity.
       8. These terms are defined in Annex A. Annexes B and C discuss the content of EA reports and EMPs.
       9. Guidance on the use of sectoral and regional EA is available in EA Sourcebook Updates 4 and 15.
       10. A potential impact is considered "sensitive" if it may be irreversible (e.g., lead to loss of a major
       natural habitat) or raise issues covered by OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples; OP 4.04, Natural Habitats; OP
       4.11, Safeguarding Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects (forthcoming); or OP 4.12, Involuntary
       Resettlement (forthcoming).
       11. When the screening process determines, or national legislation requires, that any of the environmental
       issues identified warrant special attention, the findings and results of Category B EA may be set out in a
       separate report. Depending on the type of project and the nature and magnitude of the impacts, this report
       may include, for example, a limited environmental impact assessment, an environmental mitigation or
       management plan, an environmental audit, or a hazard assessment. For Category B projects that are not in
       environmentally sensitive areas and that present well-defined and well-understood issues of narrow scope,
       the Bank may accept alternative approaches for meeting EA requirements: for example, environmentally
       sound design criteria, siting criteria, or pollution standards for small-scale industrial plants or rural works;
       environmentally sound siting criteria, construction standards, or inspection procedures for housing
       projects; or environmentally sound operating procedures for road rehabilitation projects.
       12. SILs normally involve the preparation and implementation of annual investment plans or subprojects as
       time slice activities over the course of the project.
       13. In addition, if there are sectorwide issues that cannot be addressed through individual subproject EAs
       (and particularly if the SIL is likely to include Category A subprojects), the borrower may be required to
       carry out sectoral EA before the Bank appraises the SIL.




                                                                                                              (149)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




       14. Where, pursuant to regulatory requirements or contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank, any of
       these review functions are carried out by an entity other than the coordinating entity or implementing
       institution, the Bank appraises such alternative arrangements; however, the borrower/coordinating
       entity/implementing institution remains ultimately responsible for ensuring that subprojects meet Bank
       requirements.
       15. Actions that would require such assessment include, for example, privatization of environmentally
       sensitive enterprises, changes in land tenure in areas with important natural habitats, and relative price
       shifts in commodities such as pesticides, timber, and petroleum.
       16. The requirements for FI operations are derived from the EA process and are consistent with the
       provisions of para. 6 of this OP. The EA process takes into account the type of finance being considered,
       the nature and scale of anticipated subprojects, and the environmental requirements of the jurisdiction in
       which subprojects will be located.
       17. Any FI included in the project after appraisal complies with the same requirement as a condition of its
       participation.
       18. The criteria for prior review of Category B subprojects, which are based on such factors as type or size
       of the subproject and the EA capacity of the financial intermediary, are set out in the legal agreements for
       the project.
       19. For the Bank's approach to NGOs, see GP 14.70, Involving Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank-
       Supported Activities.
       20. For projects with major social components, consultations are also required by other Bank policies--for
       example, OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples, and OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement (forthcoming).
       21. For a further discussion of the Bank's disclosure procedures, see The World Bank Policy on Disclosure
       of Information (March 1994) and BP 17.50, Disclosure of Operational Information. Specific requirements
       for disclosure of resettlement plans and indigenous peoples development plans are set out in OP/BP 4.12,
       Involuntary Resettlement (forthcoming), and OP/BP 4.10, forthcoming revision of OD 4.20, Indigenous
       Peoples.
       22. See OP/BP 13.05, Project Supervision, forthcoming.
                                                ...........................




                                                                                                           (150)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




                                                                                                     OP 4.01 -- Annex A
                                                                                                           January 1999




These policies were prepared for use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a complete
treatment of the subject.
                                               Definitions
1. Environmental audit: An instrument to determine the nature and extent of all environmental areas of concern at
an existing facility. The audit identifies and justifies appropriate measures to mitigate the areas of concern,
estimates the cost of the measures, and recommends a schedule for implementing them. For certain projects, the EA
report may consist of an environmental audit alone; in other cases, the audit is part of the EA documentation.

2. Environmental impact assessment (EIA): An instrument to identify and assess the potential environmental
impacts of a proposed project, evaluate alternatives, and design appropriate mitigation, management, and
monitoring measures. Projects and subprojects need EIA to address important issues not covered by any applicable
regional or sectoral EA.

3. Environmental management plan (EMP): An instrument that details (a) the measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of a project to eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts, or to reduce them
to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures. The EMP is an integral part of
Category A EAs (irrespective of other instruments used). EAs for Category B projects may also result in an EMP.


4. Hazard assessment: An instrument for identifying, analyzing, and controlling hazards associated with the
presence of dangerous materials and conditions at a project site. The Bank requires a hazard assessment for projects
involving certain inflammable, explosive, reactive, and toxic materials when they are present at a site in quantities
above a specified threshold level. For certain projects, the EA report may consist of the hazard assessment alone; in
other cases, the hazard assessment is part of the EA documentation.

5. Project area of influence: The area likely to be affected by the project, including all its ancillary aspects, such as
power transmission corridors, pipelines, canals, tunnels, relocation and access roads, borrow and disposal areas, and
construction camps, as well as unplanned developments induced by the project (e.g., spontaneous settlement,
logging, or shifting agriculture along access roads). The area of influence may include, for example, (a) the
watershed within which the project is located; (b) any affected estuary and coastal zone; (c) off-site areas required
for resettlement or compensatory tracts; (d) the airshed (e.g., where airborne pollution such as smoke or dust may
enter or leave the area of influence; (e) migratory routes of humans, wildlife, or fish, particularly where they relate
to public health, economic activities, or environmental conservation; and (f) areas used for livelihood activities
(hunting, fishing, grazing, gathering, agriculture, etc.) or religious or ceremonial purposes of a customary nature.

6. Regional EA: An instrument that examines environmental issues and impacts associated with a particular
strategy, policy, plan, or program, or with a series of projects for a particular region (e.g., an urban area, a
watershed, or a coastal zone); evaluates and compares the impacts against those of alternative options; assesses
legal and institutional aspects relevant to the issues and impacts; and recommends broad measures to strengthen
environmental management in the region. Regional EA pays particular attention to potential cumulative impacts of
multiple activities.

7. Risk assessment: An instrument for estimating the probability of harm occurring from the presence of dangerous
conditions or materials at a project site. Risk represents the likelihood and significance of a potential hazard being
realized; therefore, a hazard assessment often precedes a risk assessment, or the two are conducted as one exercise.
Risk assessment is a flexible method of analysis, a systematic approach to organizing and analyzing scientific
information about potentially hazardous activities or about substances that might pose risks under specified
conditions. The Bank routinely requires risk assessment for projects involving handling, storage, or disposal of
hazardous materials and waste, the construction of dams, or major construction works in locations vulnerable to
seismic activity or other potentially damaging natural events. For certain projects, the EA report may consist of the
risk assessment alone; in other cases, the risk assessment is part of the EA documentation.

                                                                                                                (151)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




8. Sectoral EA: An instrument that examines environmental issues and impacts associated with a particular strategy,
policy, plan, or program, or with a series of projects for a specific sector (e.g., power, transport, or agriculture);
evaluates and compares the impacts against those of alternative options; assesses legal and institutional aspects
relevant to the issues and impacts; and recommends broad measures to strengthen environmental management in the
sector. Sectoral EA pays particular attention to potential cumulative impacts of multiple activities.


                                                                                                     OP 4.01 -- Annex B
                                                                                                           January 1999




These policies were prepared for use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a complete
treatment of the subject.
        Content of an Environmental Assessment
                     Report for a Category A Project
1. An environmental assessment (EA) report for a Category A project1 focuses on the significant environmental
issues of a project. The report's scope and level of detail should be commensurate with the project's potential
impacts. The report submitted to the Bank is prepared in English, French, or Spanish, and the executive summary in
English.

2. The EA report should include the following items (not necessarily in the order shown):

         (a) Executive summary. Concisely discusses significant findings and recommended actions.


         (b) Policy, legal, and administrative framework. Discusses the policy, legal, and administrative framework
         within which the EA is carried out. Explains the environmental requirements of any cofinanciers. Identifies
         relevant international environmental agreements to which the country is a party.

         (c) Project description. Concisely describes the proposed project and its geographic, ecological, social, and
         temporal context, including any offsite investments that may be required (e.g., dedicated pipelines, access
         roads, power plants, water supply, housing, and raw material and product storage facilities). Indicates the
         need for any resettlement plan or indigenous peoples development plan2 (see also subpara. (h)(v) below).
         Normally includes a map showing the project site and the project's area of influence.


         (d) Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the study area and describes relevant physical, biological,
         and socioeconomic conditions, including any changes anticipated before the project commences. Also
         takes into account current and proposed development activities within the project area but not directly
         connected to the project. Data should be relevant to decisions about project location, design, operation, or
         mitigatory measures. The section indicates the accuracy, reliability, and sources of the data.


         (e) Environmental impacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely positive and negative impacts, in
         quantitative terms to the extent possible. Identifies mitigation measures and any residual negative impacts
         that cannot be mitigated. Explores opportunities for environmental enhancement. Identifies and estimates
         the extent and quality of available data, key data gaps, and uncertainties associated with predictions, and
         specifies topics that do not require further attention.


         (f) Analysis of alternatives.3 Systematically compares feasible alternatives to the proposed project site,
         technology, design, and operation--including the "without project" situation--in terms of their potential
         environmental impacts; the feasibility of mitigating these impacts; their capital and recurrent costs; their
         suitability under local conditions; and their institutional, training, and monitoring requirements. For each
         of the alternatives, quantifies the environmental impacts to the extent possible, and attaches economic

                                                                                                                (152)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




       values where feasible. States the basis for selecting the particular project design proposed and justifies
       recommended emission levels and approaches to pollution prevention and abatement.


       (g) Environmental management plan (EMP). Covers mitigation measures, monitoring, and institutional
       strengthening; see outline in OP 4.01, Annex C.

       (h) Appendixes

                          (i) List of EA report preparers--individuals and organizations.


                          (ii) References--written materials both published and unpublished, used in study
                          preparation.
                          (iii) Record of interagency and consultation meetings, including consultations for
                          obtaining the informed views of the affected people and local nongovernmental
                          organizations (NGOs). The record specifies any means other than consultations (e.g.,
                          surveys) that were used to obtain the views of affected groups and local NGOs.
                          (iv) Tables presenting the relevant data referred to or summarized in the main text.
                          (v) List of associated reports (e.g., resettlement plan or indigenous peoples development
                          plan).
____________


       1. The EA report for a Category A project is normally an environmental impact assessment, with elements
       of other instruments included as appropriate. Any report for a Category A operation uses the components
       described in this annex, but Category A sectoral and regional EA require a different perspective and
       emphasis among the components. The Environment Sector Board can provide detailed guidance on the
       focus and components of the various EA instruments.
       2. See OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement (forthcoming), and OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
       3. Environmental implications of broad development options for a sector (e.g., alternative ways of meeting
       projected electric power demand) are best analyzed in least-cost planning or sectoral EA. Environmental
       implications of broad development options for a region (e.g., alternative strategies for improving standards
       of living an a rural area) are best addressed through a regional development plan or a regional EA. EIA is
       normally best suited to the analysis of alternatives within a given project concept (e.g., a geothermal power
       plant, or a project aimed at meeting local energy demand), including detailed site, technology, design, and
       operational alternatives.




                                                                                                           (153)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




                                                                                                   OP 4.01 -- Annex C
                                                                                                        January 1999




These policies were prepared for use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a complete
treatment of the subject.
                   Environmental Management Plan
1. A project's environmental management plan (EMP) consists of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan also includes the actions needed to implement these
measures.1 Management plans are essential elements of EA reports for Category A projects; for many Category B
projects, the EA may result in a management plan only. To prepare a management plan, the borrower and its EA
design team (a) identify the set of responses to potentially adverse impacts; (b) determine requirements for ensuring
that those responses are made effectively and in a timely manner; and (c) describe the means for meeting those
requirements.2 More specifically, the EMP includes the following components.


Mitigation


2. The EMP identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that may reduce potentially significant adverse
environmental impacts to acceptable levels. The plan includes compensatory measures if mitigation measures are
not feasible, cost-effective, or sufficient. Specifically, the EMP


         (a) identifies and summarizes all anticipated significant adverse environmental impacts (including those
         involving indigenous people or involuntary resettlement);

         (b) describes--with technical details--each mitigation measure, including the type of impact to which it
         relates and the conditions under which it is required (e.g., continuously or in the event of contingencies),
         together with designs, equipment descriptions, and operating procedures, as appropriate;


         (c) estimates any potential environmental impacts of these measures; and


         (d) provides linkage with any other mitigation plans (e.g., for involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples,
         or cultural property) required for the project.


Monitoring


3. Environmental monitoring during project implementation provides information about key environmental aspects
of the project, particularly the environmental impacts of the project and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
Such information enables the borrower and the Bank to evaluate the success of mitigation as part of project
supervision, and allows corrective action to be taken when needed. Therefore, the EMP identifies monitoring
objectives and specifies the type of monitoring, with linkages to the impacts assessed in the EA report and the
mitigation measures described in the EMP. Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides


(a) a specific description, and technical details, of monitoring measures, including the parameters to be measured,
methods to be used, sampling locations, frequency of measurements, detection limits (where appropriate), and
definition of thresholds that will signal the need for corrective actions; and

                                                                                                             (154)

BEEF: Appendix 14 - World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment




(b) monitoring and reporting procedures to (i) ensure early detection of conditions that necessitate particular
mitigation measures, and (ii) furnish information on the progress and results of mitigation.


Capacity Development and Training


4. To support timely and effective implementation of environmental project components and mitigation measures,
the EMP draws on the EA's assessment of the existence, role, and capability of environmental units on site or at the
agency and ministry level.3 If necessary, the EMP recommends the establishment or expansion of such units, and
the training of staff, to allow implementation of EA recommendations. Specifically, the EMP provides a specific
description of institutional arrangements--who is responsible for carrying out the mitigatory and monitoring
measures (e.g., for operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action, financing,
reporting, and staff training). To strengthen environmental management capability in the agencies responsible for
implementation, most EMPs cover one or more of the following additional topics: (a) technical assistance programs,
(b) procurement of equipment and supplies, and (c) organizational changes.



Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates


5. For all three aspects (mitigation, monitoring, and capacity development), the EMP provides (a) an
implementation schedule for measures that must be carried out as part of the project, showing phasing and
coordination with overall project implementation plans; and (b) the capital and recurrent cost estimates and sources
of funds for implementing the EMP. These figures are also integrated into the total project cost tables.

Integration of EMP with Project


6. The borrower's decision to proceed with a project, and the Bank's decision to support it, are predicated in part on
the expectation that the EMP will be executed effectively. Consequently, the Bank expects the plan to be specific in
its description of the individual mitigation and monitoring measures and its assignment of institutional
responsibilities, and it must be integrated into the project's overall planning, design, budget, and implementation.
Such integration is achieved by establishing the EMP within the project so that the plan will receive funding and
supervision along with the other components.

____________


          1. The management plan is sometimes known as an "action plan." The EMP may be presented as two or
          three separate plans covering mitigation, monitoring, and institutional aspects, depending on borrowing
          country requirements.
          2. For projects involving rehabilitation, upgrading, expansion, or privatization of existing facilities,
          remediation of existing environmental problems may be more important than mitigation and monitoring of
          expected impacts. For such projects, the management plan focuses on cost-effective measures to remediate
          and manage these problems.
          3. For projects having significant environmental implications, it is particularly important that there be in
          the implementing ministry or agency an in-house environmental unit with adequate budget and
          professional staffing strong in expertise relevant to the project (for projects involving dams and reservoirs,
          see BP 4.01, Annex B




                                                                                                               (155)

BEEF: Appendix 15 ­ Financial Management System Manual




                                                          (156)

