DoCumAnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6236-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
October, 1986
Eastern & Southern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Kwacha (K)
US$ 1.00         -    K 7.2
K 1.00           8    US$ 0.139
M1                    million
The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate is determined by weekly
auction.  The exchange rate shown above Is the result of the auction held
on May 24, 1986.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =    0.98 long tons
1 millimeter (mm)                0.39 inches
1 meter (m)                 =    3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)         -    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)          =    1.31 cubic yards
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)         0.386 square miles
I hectare (ha)              -    2.47 acres
1 litre (It)                -    1.76 pints
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC      =   Agricultural Finance Company
CARO     -   Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CBD          Coffee Berry Disease
CDC      -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CFTC     =   Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
DBZ      -   Development Bank of Zambia
EEC      =   European Economic Community
GDP      =   Gross Domestic Product
GRZ      =   Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICA      =   International Coffee Agreement
ICO          International Coffee Organization
IDA      =   International Development Association
IFC      =   International Finance Corporation
INDECO   =   Industrlal Development Corporation
LINTCO   -   Llnt Company of Zambia
MAWD     =  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
NCDP     =   Natlonal Commission for Development Planning
PMCC     =   Project Management and Coordination Committee
RUCOM    =   (Rural Commercial Companies) Rucom Industries Ltd.
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
ZADB     =   Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
ZCCL         Zambia Coffee Company Ltd.
ZCGA     =   Zambia Coffee Growers Association
ZIMCO    -   Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Zambia   :  January 1 - December 31
ZCCL and LINTCO              April 1 - March 31



olt omc- IL uR ONLY
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PRWOECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ........       .......................    1
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR              1
A.  Project Background ...       ..........................    1
B. Agriculture in the Economy          .....................    1
C. Agricultural Institutions and Services .........    2
D.  Production Potential, Constraints and
Development Policies         ..........................    6
E.  Bank Lending Strategy in Agriculture        ..........    7
F.  Previous Bank Group Involvement In Agriculture .       7
II.  THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR                                      10
A.  General                          .................   10
B.  Coffee Marketing ....13
C.  Government Coffee Policy   .....................   16
III.  PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES                             16
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                18
A.  Rationale for Bank Support                            18
B.  Project Objectives and General Description so...   18
C.  Detailed Features ..............................   19
D.  Project Costs                                         23
E#  Financing                                             23
F.  Procurement                                           25
G.  Disbursement ......27
H.  Accounts and Audits                                   28
Is Environmental Impact                                   29
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                     30
A.  Organization and Management o...................   30
B.  Executing Agencies .............................   30
C.  Status of Project Preparationparation....    33
D.  Implementation of Specific Components                 34
VI.  PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                         41
A.  Coffee Yields  ...... 00*00*00*066600............    41
B.  Financial Analysis                                    42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Zambia
in March 1986, comprising Messrs. C. Warnaars, W. Schwermer, Y. Doka, T.
Turtiainen; D. Dawit (IDA) and A. Finney and R. Lacroix (consultants). The
mission was joined by Mr. D. Brown as a CDC observer.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



VI. PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (continued....)
Page No.
C. Distributional Impact       ......................   42
D. Cash Flow Projections and Flnacial
Rates of Return .....................,......   43
E. Financial Analysls - ZCCL ......................   44
F. Project Budgetary Implications                         47
VII. BeNEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                      47
At Justification        ................................    47
B.  Benefits     ......................................    47
C. Economic Rates of Return (ERR) .................       48
D. Sensitivity Analysis ..........................        48
S. Economic Rate of Return - ZCCL Component .a.....    49
F.  Uncertainties and Risks   ......................    49
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMNENDATIONS                            50
ANNEX I
Draft Coffee Policy
ANEX It
Charts
1. Implementation Schedule
2 Program of Field Operatiao- for Establishment and Maintenance of
Coffee
ANNEX III
Tables
1 Projected Coffee Plantings and Farmer Participation in Project
Sumary
2 Investment Cost Estimates - Agricultural Machinery and Tools
3 Investment Cost Estimates for Credit Component Summary
4 Improvement in Coffee Extension Services - Detailed Cost Table
5 Research - Detalled Cost Table
6 Coffee Marketing - Detailed Cost Table
7 Credit Component - Detailed Cost Table
8 Assistance to Zambia Coffee Company - Detailed Cost Table
9  Estiated Yields for Project Coffee
10 Price Projections for Zambia Coffee
11 Fnancial Analysis - Smallholder/Small Emergent Farmer Growing 0.5 ha
of Coffee and Using Stationary Hand Pulper for Processing



- liii-
(AS=131 III contlaued...)
Tables
12 Financil Analysis - Smallholder/Small Emergent yarmer Growing 0.5 ha
of Coffee (Central Processing Facility)
13 Finanlcl Analysli - Large Emergent Farmer - 15 ba Coffee Plantatlon
14  nancial Analysis - Commercial Farmer - 40 ha Coffee Plantation
15 Financial Analysis - Commercial Farmer - 80 ha Coffee Plantation
16 Zambia Coffee Company Ltd. (2CCL) - Capital Expenditures, Operating
Expendltures and Revenues
17 Zambia Coffee Company Ltd. (ZCCL) - Income and Cash Flow Analysis
IS Zambla Coffee Company Ltd. (2CCL) - Projected Balance Sheet
19 Incremental Capital Expenditures, Operating Expenditures and Revenues
20 Zambi Coffee Comapny Ltd. (ZCCL) - Incremental Income and Cash Flow
21  Incremntal Economic Benefits and Costs
22 Sonsitlvlty Tests
23 ZCCL Economle Analysis - Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits
24 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
AM-tV
Schedule
1 Draft LandIng Terms and Conditions
2 Coffee Subproject Yeasibillty Study
3 Criteria for Appraisal of Subprojects
&s (IDE)
No.19165
Selected Documnts avallable in Project file.
1.    Proposed Second Coffqes Preparation Report, January 1986, IDA.
2.    Coffee Productlon and Processing of Mild Arabica Coffee.  Working
Paper, June 1986. A. Finnay, Consultant.
3.    Coffee Marketing. Working Paper, July 1986.  R. Lacroix, Consultant.
4.    Detailed Tradinig Program.  Working Paper, June 1986, IDA.
S.    Mbnitoring and Evaluation check list.  Working Paper, June 1986, IDA.
6.    Consultants Terms of Reference.  June 1986, IDA.
7.    Detailed Cost Tables and Niscellaneous Information on ZCCL.
8.    Worklng Paper on irrigation of coffee, October 1985.  D.A. Brown,
Consultant.
9.    Review summary of participating banks, April 1986.  IDA.



- i -
ZANBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Government of the Republic of Zambia
Amount:        SDR 16.9 million (about US$20.4 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA
Beneficiaries: Coffee Farmers, the Zambia Coffee Company Ltd. (ZCCL) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
Re Lending     The Government would channel US$15.4M of the credit proceeds
Terms:         to participating banks for on-lending to farmers.  Farmers
would be able to choose the curren,,y denomination of their
borrowings. Interest rates on foreign currency loans would
be in accordance with IDA's policy on lending to commercial
entities with farmers carrying the foreign exchange risk.
Interest on local currency loans would be in line with rates
charged by participating banks for similar loans outside the
Project; they would be expected to be positive in real terms
and cover the foreign exchange risk. Loan repayments would
be over a period of up to 12 years with a grace period of up
to 5 years. On-lending of IDA funds to ZOCL (US$2.0M) would
be in foreign currency at an interest rate similar to that
charged to Project farmers. Repayment would be 15 years
with a five year grace period on principal repayments.
Project        At full development, the Project would increase the national
Description:   annual production of high quality arabica coffee by about
4,700 tons primarily for export. It would create a suitable
institutional framework for the establishment of a coffee
industry and build up national expertise in all aspects of
coffee production and marketing. Unlike the first project
which was oriented towards the parastatal sector, the
Project would concentrate on coffee development in the
private sector. It would be implemented over a seven-year
period and comprise: (e) provision of credit to eligible
farmers through the commercial banking system for establish-
ment of itrigated coffee and installation of processing
facilitites; (b) strengthening of the Lint Company of Zambia
(LINTCO) and training of its staff in order to improve
coffee extension support; (c) assistance and training to
coffee research to complement the proposed National Research
and Extension Project; (d) technical assistance. and training
in coffee marketing; and (e) assistance to ZGCL to improve
its viability and management capabilities. The Project
activities would be concentrated mainly in the Northern
provinces of Zambia. Total number of participating farmers
is expected to be 1,200 of which 1,100 are samllholders.
The total area to be planted in coffee is expected to be
about 3,250 ha.



- li -
ftnefits       The principal benefit of the Project would he the stiaul-
ad Risks:      tion of private sector coffee production.  The financial
rates of return for participating frmers rage between 262
and 322 depending upon size of operation. The Project would
also provide the country with an additional source of
foreign exchange, raise rural incomes and provide employment
opportunities.
The Project risks mainly revolve around the Government's
commitment to economic reforms , and timly implementation of
the coffee policy. An outbreak of coffee berry disese
could reduce yields, but this risk could be overcome by
Increased crop spraying. A long-term col'apee of the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement would depress coffee prices, but
even under this scenario the Project would remain viable.
Remining problems of the first coffee project have been
fully addressed and lessons learned have been incorporated.
estimated Costs:                           Local    Forl d      Total
-(USfffilfion)--
Credit                       7.7      11.6       19.3
Extension                    0.9       1.7       2.6
Research                     0.2       0.4       0.6
marketing                    0.1       0.3       0.4
Assistance to ZCCL           1.2       3.0       4.2
Base Cost                   10.1      T7W       i7:T 
Physical Contingencies       0.1       0.2       0.3
Price Contingencies          2.9       4.6        7.5
Total Project Costs       13.1      21.8      34.9
Financing Plan
LocalN aI -12.3                         -        12.3
ZCCL equity partner(s)       0.7       1.5        2.2
IDA                          0.2      20.2      20.4
Totalt                     3E       TM        73
/ XIncludes contributions from Government (US41.2); participating banks
(US$3.9); farmers (US$6.4); and ZCCL's own resources (US$0.8).
stimated IDA
Disbursements:                           IDA Fiscal Year
87   88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95
Annual:                1.0  1.4  2.2  32  3.8  2.8  2.4  2.4  1.2
Cuftative:             1.0  2.4  4.6  7.8 11.6 14.4 16.8 19.2 20.4
Rate of Return: 242
!bzs IBRD 19765



ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
Staff Appraisal RepRrt
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01      The Project, for wh;ch an IDA Credit of SDR 16.9 million (about
US$20.4M) is proposed, forms the second phase of IDA's assistance to coffee
development In Zambia. It forms part of the couni.ry's long-term
development plan and the Bank Group's lending strategy to diversify
agricultural production and foreign exchange earnings. The Project was
identified by an IDA mission in mid-1984 in the course of discussions with
Government on the IDA-assisted Coffee Production Project (Credit 863-ZA).
Subsequently, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD),
with assistance from IDA staff, comenced the preparation of a second phase
coffee development project. Following a final preparation mission in
November 1985, a preparation document was prepared, which formed the basis
of an appraisal carried out in March 1986.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.02      Background.  Zambia, a land-locked country covering some 750 ,000
km2, has, as of 1986, a population of about 6.4 million with an annual
growth rate of 3.42.  Since 1975 the country has been gripped by a steadily
worsening economic crisis, precipitated by a decline in external trade,
falling copper production, and recurring droughts. Accumwlating balance of
payments and budgetary deficits over the past ten years have led to
increasing delays in completion of investment projects, under-utilization
of productive capacity, and deterioration of basic infrastructure
throughout the country. There has been limited structural change and
diversification of production in the economy since Independence in 1964.
An economic restructuring program including liberalixation of prices,
marketing and credit and the introduction of a foreign exchange auctlon
system, underway since October 1985, and supported by the Bank Group, shows
promise of eventually reversing the long-term economic decline.
1.03      Agriculture, providing a living to about 60X of the total
population and employing 67X of the labor force, contributes 17X of GDP,
indicating the low levels of rural productivity and incomes. Agricultural
output grew at about 2.8Z per annum during 1965-85, which was less than the
population growth rate; self-sufficiency In major food crops consequently
declined.  In the early 1980s, food imports (aainly whest, dairy products
and vegetable oils) accounted for 1OX of the total value of Zamblats
imports, while agricultural exports (mainly tobacco, cotton and groundnut.)
accounted for less than 22 of the country's total export earnings.
Zambia's 600,000 farm households comprise some 700 modern, capitalized
farms, about 450 ,000 traditional farming families on smallholdl gs that
average two hectares each, and a growlng category (140,000) of small and
mediur scale 'emergent' farmers producing for the market on farms of up to



- 2 -
40 .1. While the commercial (including the "emergent" farmer) sector more
than doubled its contribution to GDI in the period between 1965 and 1982,
the growth rate of the traditional sector has been stagnant and its
relative importance has declined significantly.
C. Agricultutal Institutions and Services
1.04      The agricultural sector is serviced almost entirely by Government
or parastatal organizations, and to a lesser extent by Provincial
Cooperative Unions (PCUs), whose functions range from direct participation
in crop and livestock production to distribution and processing of
agricultural products. In addition to MAWD, the major parastatals include
the National Agricultural Marketing Board (NAMBOARD), the Cold Storage
Board, the Dairy Product Board, Zambia Coffee Company Ltd. (ZCCL), and the
cotton (LINTCO) and seed companies (ZAMSEED).  There are nine PCUs, all of
which are involved in input delivery and produce marketing. The PCUs,
together with NAMBOARD, are the official and exclusive purchasers of maize,
and the buyers of last resort for all other major crops including
groundnuts, sunflower, wheat and rice. They also distribute and sell
fertilizer and other agricultural inputs to farmers at
Government-controlled prices. Private enterprise plays a major role in the
marketing of cassava, millet, sorghum, rice, sunflower, soyabeans,
livestock products, and fruits and vegetables; it also handles most of the
distribution of agro-chemicals, farm machinery and implements.
1.05      Extension services to the farm community are provided mainly by
MAiWD through its Department of Agriculture (DOA). The Extension Branch is
headed by an Assistant Director at Lusaka headquarters, assisted by
national Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) in crop and animal husbandry,
horticulture, tobacco, training, youth and home economics, and by
administrative personnel. In each of the nine provinces, extension
services are organized through a Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO), who
is assisted by provincial SMS and administrative personnel. At the
district level in each province, extension is carried out through the
District Agricultural Officer (DAO), assisted by staff at district
headquarters and field extension staff based in agricultural camps (the
lowest field level) and blocks (each consisting of 6 - 8 camps). Tn
addition to the extension services provided directly by the Department of
Agriculture, cotton, coffee and soybean extension is carried out by DOA
staff seconded to LINTCO (Lint Company of Zambia) (para 2.07). While these
staff members receive their salaries from the Extension Branch, LINTCO
provides incentive allowances and transport.
1.06      Crop research responsibilities are vested in the Research Branch
of DOA. The Branch is headed by an Assistant Director, supported by a
Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) based at the Central Research
Station at Mt. Makulu. A National Coordinator of the Adaptive Research
Planning Tewms (ARPTs), presently stationed at Lusaka headquarters, also
reports to the CARO. The latter is in charge of staff and programs of all
the national Commodity and Specialist Research Teams (CSRTs) as well as the
provincial ARPTs. The Research Branch also administers three advisory
services: Biometries, Soil and Crop Advisory, and Library. Coffee
research is concentrated at the Misamfu Research Station in the North
Province with sub-stations in Lucheche and Malashi (para 2.08).



- 3 -
1.07      Institutional credit to the agricultural sector, about K188M in
1984, is provided largely by six commercial banks (of which Barclays,
Standard Chartered, and National Commercial are predominant) and several
parastatal organizations, including the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC),
the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB), the Development Bank of
Zambia (DBZ), the Zambia State Insurance Corporation (ZSIC), and Zambia
Cooperative Federation Finance Services Ltd. (ZCF).   Commercial banks,
(paras 1.08-1.12) with a total of more than IUO branches all over Zambia
(IBRD Map 19765), lend primarily to commercial farmers, mainly for seasonal
purposes under lines of credit or through overdrafts. They also provide
Government guaranteed financing to the agricultural marketing parastatals
and cooperative unions. DBZ and ZSIC provide a limited amount of medium
and long-term funds for agricultural production as a relatively minor
element of their overall activities. AFC, a subsidiary of ZIMCO, remains
the only significant source of seasonal and medium-term credit to some
20,000 small-scale and emergent farmers, although about half of Its total
lending also goes to large-scale borrowers. But its procedures are
time-consuming and cumbersome, and it has suffered from mismanagement, poor
recoveries, and inadequate financial performance. ZADB, established in
1982, was intended to become the principal agricultural credit institution
in Zambia, eventually replacing AFC. However, its operations so far have
been very limited (only 47 loan accounts with 28 clients as of October 31,
1985) and it has experienced considerable financial difficulties since its
start-up. A recent Bank-funded consultancy study recommended the merger of
APC with ZADB. This will be pursued further by a proposed Bank-funded
agricultural credit project. Coopera-ive credit institutions, although
small, have shown promising results and good recovery rates during the past
two years.
1*08      Barclay's Bank of Zambia Ltd, which had assets of K822M in 1984,
is the largest commercial bank In the country.l/ Although Barclay's is a
local bank, all its shareholdings are with a foreign holding company,
Barclay's PCL, with headquarters in the United Kingdom. The bank has 31
branch offices (Man IBRD 19765) and a total staff of about 1,500. Three of
the branches are in Luapula and North Western Provinces, which form part of
the proposed Project area. There are no agricultural lending departments
in the branch offices, but the head office in Lusaka has an agricultural
section of two persons. More than 70% of Barclay's loans are short-term;
30% are medium-term and there is no long-term lending. The bank has
reserved 45% of its lending volume for agricultural purposes. Nearly all
of these funds are used for seasonal credit and agricultural marketing.
Barclay's participates in lending to small-scale farmers through a special
RCC-assisted program which has 18 credit supervisors. In 1985, about 2,700
families borrowed K1OM through this program. The bank has shown sub-
stantial growth during the last few years, but this growth has not kept
pace with inflation. Its total assets Increased from K681 M in 1983 to
K822 M in 1984 (15.3%). The Bank's own capital (shares and reserves)
amounted to at K57.8 M in 1984, which represented 7% of its assets.
Liquidity remained good until 1985, when as a result of the new 'foreign
currency auction system", devaluation increased the amount of lending. In
1983-1984, cash and short-term funds amounted to about half of its assets.
1.09      Zambia National Commercial Bank Ltd. (ZNCB) is the second largest
Zambian bank in terms of savings and deposits as well as total assets (K
716 M and K776 M in FY 1984 and 1985 respectively). It is a subsidiary
1/  1985 values were not available at appraisal.
I/ 1985 values were not available at appraisal.



company of the government-owned Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Limited (ZIMCO), wbich holds 99.82 of the bank's issued capital. ZNCB has
a staff of about 15200, divided among its 30 offices, four of which are in
the main project areas (IBRD Map 19765). ZNCB has three persons dealing
with agricultural lending at its head office in Lusaka. Two agriculturists
help the branch offices in their agricultural lending operations. Bank
management is planning to increase the field staff to 12 to improve its
agricultural coverage in the provinces. The bank provides all the usual
banking ser-ices except long-term loans. About 90% of the outstanding
agricultural loans (K35M) are short-term. The bank has no policy
limitation on agricultural lending. It operates a small-farmer program,
under which K1.OM has been reserved for farmers who have less than 2 ha of
cultivated land and who have applied for a loan of not more than K2,q00.
In 1986, the allocation for this purpose was increascd to K2M. ZNCB's
total assets grew from about K305M in FY 1980 to K776M in FY 1985; in
1985, its savings and deposits reached K717M and loans K379M. Profits-
bility also increased; the pre-tax profit grew from K8.5M in 1980 to K23.8M
in 1985 (average increase: 24% per annum), when the profit-to-equity ratio
reached 49.5% and the profit-to-assets ratio 3.1%. ZNCB's capital,
however, is smaller than that of the other banks-K48M In 1985 (6.2% of
assets).  Its liquidity had been at a level of 40% to 502 of assets until
1985-86 when the "foreign currency auction system" was Introduced.
1.10      Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia Ltd. ranks third among the
commercial banks in assets and lending. It has, however, the largest
network of branches and agencies (36). Ten of these are in the Northern
Province, which is an essential part of the Project area, and where
Barclays has no branches. No Standard Bank branches are located in the
other two Project provinces which are served by Barclays. The bank is
registered under Zambian Law, but 90% of its share capital is owned by a
British-based holding company, Standard Chartered PLC. The staff totals
slightly more than 1,000. The bank has no specific agricultural lending
unit but handles agricultural loans through the Advances Department at the
head office in Lusaka. The bank has three agricultural specialists, one at
the head office and two assisting the oranchei. Standard Bank provides all
the usual banking services except long-term loans. In 1985, about 38% of
all lending including loans to cooperative unions and parastatal marketing
boards, went to agriculture, making 'C'is the largest sector in the bank's
credit portfolio. Standard Chartered Bank had participated earlier in
small-farmer schemes but none of these were active at the time of
appraisal. Both its assets and capital have Increased, but at a rate below
inflation. Its total assets grew from K642M in 1983 to K697M in 1984
(8.6%). Profits before taxes were K21.5M in 1984, a marked increase over
the K14.6M in 1983. The 'ratio' of capital to assets improved from 7.0% in
1983 to 8.3% in 1984 (K45 M and K57.5 M, respectively). Liquidity has been
good; the total amount in loasa and advances in 1984 (K269 M) amounted to
less than 40% of ite assets.
1.11      Development Bank of Zamba (DBZ), established as a statutory
corporation by an Act of Parliemzent in 1972, started operations in 1974.
Its main objectives are to provide medium- and long-term loans and equity
financing for projects in industry, agro-industry, constrvetion, transport,
power, tourism, mining and agriculture. DBZ is also authorized to provide
technical assistance and advisory services and to administer Special Funds



on behalf of the Government. The World Bank Group assisted the Government
in establishing DBZ by participating In the feasibillty study that led to
Its creation through an IFC equity investment of US$350,000 and by granting
a US$1S million loan to DBZ in 1975 and an additional US$15 million loan in
1980. Since inception, DBZ has malntained its autonomy In making
invest-ment decisions, has become the major source of term flnanclng for
productive Investments in Zambia and, despite the country's economiz
difficulties, has remained a basically sound financial institutlon. DBZ
has a total staff of 182 consisting of 64 professionals and 118 support
staff. The Supervision Division has a staff of 19 professionals who visit
projects once a year.
1.12      DBZ'e present loan portfolio is almost evenly divided between
foreign and local currency denominated loans. On foreign currency loans,
DIZ has been charging a fixed annual interest rate of 15X and a commitment
fee of 32 due on the date of signing the contract and on the undisbursed
amounts on esch subsequent anniversary of contract signing. Local currency
loans bear a semi-annual floating interest rate. As of March 31, 1986, the
Interest rate for loans for Industrial projects was 282 p.a. and for
agri-cultural projects 262. Following the adoption of the foreign exchange
auction in October 1985 and the recent decline In world interest rates, DBZ
is considering the establishment of a lower interest rate for new foreign
currency loans based on IBRD rates plus an adequate spread. As of December
31, 1985, DBZ had mobilized long-term local currency resource- amountlng to
K107.9 million consisting of paid-in share capital of K18.95 million,
reserves and retained earnings of K8.98 million and medium- and long-term
borrowings totall.ing K79.97 milllon. DBZ has also been successful in
mobiliing resources from foreign institutions. As of December 31, 1985,
it had obtained foreign currency resources amounting to K145.3 million.
1.13      Overdues.  The credits are granted by the banks for a specified
puriod, but because almost all lending is short term (except for DBZ) and,
In practice, is renewed to reliable customers, the overdues have come to
resemble bank overdrafts, or 'ong-term lending. The banks do not monitor
the overdues as a matter of .oncern, but rather as "carryovers" that affect
liquidity. These "carryover" amounts vary from a relatively low 10% in
Standard Chartered to an estimated 502 in ZNCB. Overdues in medium-term
lending are Insignificant. The collaterals are checked during annual
audits.
1.14      Interest Rates have been decontrolled since September 1985.
However, for lending to agriculture the Bank of Zambia issues a guideline
for the interest rate whick. should generally not be exceeded. During the
last five years, the interest rates for the agricultural sector have
increased along with the cost of funds for the banks, e.g., in the AFC from
101 in 1980 to 17% in 1985-86. The interest rates under the Cooperative
Credit System are also at 17%, except those for small-scale farm input
loans, for which the cooperatives charge only 62. Zavbia Development Bank
and comercial banks charge rates for agriculture which are slightly less
than those for other sectors. There are no significant differences In
rates for short-term and medium-term loans. The Bank of Zambia discount
rate was 23.51 at the time of appraisal.



- 6 -
D. Production Potential, Constraints and Develoment Policies
1.15      The major challenge now facing Zambian policy-makers is to
diversify the economy away from its dependence on mining (mainly copper),by
implementing long-term structural adjustments and policy changes in which
agriculture is accorded much higher priority than in the past. Analyses of
its resource base suggest that Zambia has good potential for expansion of
its agricultural sector. Out of 43 million ha available for agriculture,
only some 12 million ha (28%) have been cleared; of the latter, 5 million
ha are regularly cultivated while 7 million ha are under shifting
cultivation. Only about 40% of the regularly cultivated areas and less
than 15% of the areas under shifting cultivation are harvested each year,
the rest being under fallow. The climate is generally favorable for the
cultivation of a wide range of crops. Only 4% of the large potential in
stable river run-off and groundwater is currently utilized for irrigation.
The vast majority of traditional farmers have still to be reached by
research, extension, credit and other services which could help raise their
productivity.
1;16      Despite its potential, several constraints have limited
agricultural sector development. Inadequate planning and lack of a clear
agricultural development strategy have led to the creation of many
Ill-conceived new programs and organizations. The Government-controlled
monopoly parastatals and cooperatives have not been allowed margins
adequate to cover marketing costs and thus have caused a persistent drain
on budgetary resources. Late input deliveries, inefficient marketing
arrangements and frequent delays in crop payments, together with cumbersome
credit procedures, have often discouraged subsistence farmers from starting
cash cropping. Agricultural production, which is low per unit of labor and
land, has been discouraged by: the taxation of farmers (and consumer
subsidies) implicit in price controls; the weaknesses of credit institu-
tions which have failed to assist emergent farmers to expand production;
and, until recently, the Kvacha's over-valuation which has favored imports
over domestic production. A further constraint is the low population
density in many areas where there is good land and water. Production has
also been constrained by the inadequate provision of infrastructure
necessary for agricultural development such as rural roads, water supply
and transportation, rural storage and processing industries. In addition,
the sector had been consistently accorded low priority in the allocation of
financial resources.
1.17      Government's stated long-term objectives in agriculture include
the achievement of a more equitable distribution of income and employment,
self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs (particularly maize), an increase in
the production of import-replacing commodities, and diversification to
widen the export base of the economy. Since Zambia is a land locked
country, it would give priority to products with a high value per unit
weight such as coffee. Recoguizing that economic growth will depend to a
large extent on the performance of the agricultural sector, GRZ strategy is
to make increasing use of the sector's potential and overcome existing
constraints through: (a) improved institutional and allocative efficiency
in the sector; (b) more active participation by siallholder, emergent and
commercial farmers; and (c) increased emphasis on agricultural research,
extension and trainiag. Government is encouraging private sector



-7-
investments in agricultural production and in agro- processing, and is
reforming the sector through: (a) progressively decontrolling consumer
prices and, since September 1985, interest rates; and (b) revising the
price structure of production inputs in order to phase out producer
subsidies. GRZ is also contemplating reforms and improvements in
agricultural marketing and input distribution to stimulate producer
incentives. Sustained real increases in budgetary resource allocation to
agriculture and the introduction of a foreign exchange auction system are
important additional Government measures taken recently to benefit the
development of the agricultural sector.
E. Bank Lending Strategy in Agriculture
1.18      The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to act as a catalyst in
assisting Government in its moves toward better economic management and
structural change for diversification of the economy. In agriculture, this
strategy has three broad objectives: (a) strengthening Government's
capacity for agricultural planning and policy analysis, to develop and
maintain a policy environment conducive to agricultural growth; (b)
strengthening MAWD's implementation capacity through improved resource
allocation, long-term institutional reform, technical and human resource
development, and identification of and support for viable diversification
options; and (c) making further improvements in the agricultural pricing,
credit and marketing systems. To attain these strategy objectives, the
Bank Group intends to act principally through its sector work and lending
programs, and through supervision of outstanding Loans and Credits. The
lending strategy in Zambian agriculture within the next five years consists
of: (a) financial support for importation of key agricultural inputs to
mitigate the negative effects of the foreign exchange crisis, and (b)
financial and technical support to public and private enterprises involved
in agricul- tural credit, marketing, processing, agricultural services, and
discrete area-based or commodity-specific production-oriented projects
(coffee, fisheries, forestry, etc.).
F. Previous Bank Group Involvement in Agriculture
1.19      Bank Group financial assistance to the agricultural sector so far
has involved 12 projects: three for industrial forestry, two for livestock/
dairy development, two for tobacco production, one for coffee production,
two area-based projects for overall agricultural development, one for
fisheries development and one for agricultural rehabilitation. Until 1981,
Bank involvement was largely limited to the development of commercial crops
and forestry projects. Following the change in Government's priorities
toward increastng smallholder productivity, two area development projects
(in Eastern and Southern Provinces) were started in 1981/82. Generally,
implementation of projects has been problematic because of the weak
institutional and policy framework in the agricultural sector, the poor
management performance of parastatals, the complexity of rural development
projects, lengthy procurement delays, and chronic shortage of recurrent
financing. The first livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at GRZ's request
because of pricing problems and poor manaLement. The Smallholder Dairy
Project, which was approved in 1982, encountered implementation problems
and was scaled down to a pilot design. The forestry projects, after some
initial start-up problems, are being relatively well-executed. The two



- 8 -
tobacco projects were unsuccessful In meeting their objectives of training
farmers and raising tobacco production because of managerial and pricing
problems. The coffee project baa also been hmpered by a shortage of funds
and management deficiencies* The two area-based agricultural development
projects, which both became effective in 1982, have faced some initlal
problems with Inadequate funding and lengthy procurement procedures; these
problems are gradually being resolved. The fisheries and agricultural
rehabilitation projects recently became effective. A nationwide
Agricultural Research and Extension Project, appraised In 1986, has the
objective of increasing agricultural production, improving agricultural
services and strengthening existing institutions.
1.20      The Zambia Coffee Production Project (Credit 863-ZA) was
appraised in April 1978. An IDA Credit of US$6.0 million was approved
later that year and became effective in July 1979. The broad objectives of
the project were to achieve self-sufficiency in coffee, and to diversify
the agricultural base and produce exportable surplases. Mbre specifically,
the project aimed at increasing the annual production of clean coffee by
about 800 tons through the establishment of a 400 ha estate at Kateshi
(north of Kasama) and the rehabilitation of an existing 50 ha estate at
Ngoll. Processing, packing and storage facilities were to be established
at Kateshi. The project Included a pilot smallholder coffee production
component, developing 90 ha and involving about 600 subsistence farmers.
Coffee research was also to be strengthened. The coffee produced by the
project was primarily meant for domestic consumption. Implementation of
the estate and factory components was to be carried out by RUCON Industries
Ltd., and the smallholder and research components by MAWD. Total project
costs were estimated at US$8.3M at appraisal.
1.21      From the beginning, the execution of this project was beset with
problems, many of which can be traced to poor appraisal estimates, a
shortage of funds, and a worsening economic situation in Zambla resulting
in increasing budgetary restrictions. These led to shortages in materials
and supplies, late deliveries of fertilizer and other chemicals, and
general delays in project Implementation. In addition to the
delays,operations like land preparation were not always carried out in
accordance with appropriate norms. A aid-term review mission (March 1981)
re-estimated total project costs at US$18.1M. This mission further
concluded that the most viable option was for the plantation component to
be implemented as designed, but that the largest part of the crop (80X) to
be oriented toward the export market and only the remainder toward the
domestic market. Although project costs were estimated to be much higher
than originally estimated, project benefits under the export/domestic
marketing scenario were also projected to increase, resulting In an
estimated ERR of about 17X. The funding problem was partly resolved by
eliminating and reallocating funds from the smallholder and research
components. Local funding for factory civil works and plantation
completion was to be provided through equity and loan funds by ZINCO and
INDECO. After IDA funds were no longer available for research and
smallholder coffee development, these two project components received only
scant further attention. The situation improved when coffee extension and
research support was included in a UNDP/FAO financed project which provided
mainly technical assistance. During the Initial years of the UNDP/FAD
project from 1981 to 1983, about 400 smallholders took up coffee



production, cultivating coffee primarily under rainfed conditions. When
LINTCO, with Government financial support, took over the responsibility for
smallholder coffee development at the end of 1983, the increase in coffee
farmers and expansion of coffee area gained additional momentum. However,
development efforts have not been fully successful (see para 2.07) and
assistance provided by UNDP/FAO and the Government for coffee research all
but terminated In 1984.
1.22      Current Status.  Of the 450 ha of coffee to be established or
rehabilitated by RUCOM under the project, 407 ha have so far been planted,
although some of the new plantings require considerable infilling. Civil
works construction for the factory and equipment installation are
completed, and the factory has been commissioned in June 1986. The Credit
Closing Date was extended by one year to September 30, 1985. A project
completion report is under preparation.
1.23      Operating and management performance of RUCOM has not been
satisfactory: the Lusaka based management has not always given adequate
attention to the plantation; forward planning, coordination and monitoring
have been lacking; past shortages of inputs and other materials have
affected the plantation and field practices and husbandry, maintenance and
general operations have frequently been out of line with acceptable
standards. To overcome these problems, GRZ decided to transfer the
responsibility for project completion to a newly established parastatal,
the Zambia Coffee Company Ltd. (ZCCL) in. early 1984. The company's main
responsibility was to (a) manage the two coffee estates, (b) dry, hull and
grade all coffee produced in Zambia through their dry processing plant; and
(c) market all clean coffee for export.   ZCCL is taking steps to bring the
problems under control but its coffee experience and know-how is still
Inadequate and progress is slow: crop husbandry practices, although
Improved, do not yet meet acceptable standards and coffee yields are still
low; problems associated with the existing furrow irrigation system, its
maintenance and operations are yet to be addressed. However, ZCCL has the
potential of becoming viable through improvements in management; invest-
ments in machinery, equipment and housing; and major corrections in the
irrigation system. Total cost estimates, including contingencies for these
improvements would be US$5.OM (para 4.18).
1.24      The problems experienced in project implementation have high-
lighted the need for preparation of reliable cost estimates and careful
evaluation of technical details. They have also shown that, given the
current Zambian lack of experience in coffee production, processing and
marketing, reliance on the public sector for a project of this size and
complexity has been inappropriate. To ensure ZCCL's future viability, the
most effective course to follow would be to provide coffee management
expertise, additional equity funds and the cost-consciousness required
through private sector participation in the Company. Such participation
would also be expected to help in the removal of existing constraints on
effective personnel management and the management of the Company in
general. INDECO has initiated discussions with the Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation (CDC) for the provision of financial assistance. There is
also possible interest by some private firms in assisting ZCCL with
management and equity input. To avoid further delays in addressing urgent
operational and management problems INDECO/ZCCL, in consultation with IDA,



- 10 -
have recently entered 'nto an agreement with Tate and Lyle Technical
Services, under which management and irrigation expertise are being
provided. Also, with the assistance of the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation (CFTC) a Corporate Plan is being prepared which is to establish
the basis of suitable organization, management and equity participation
arrangements. (See also paras 4.12 and 5.14).
1.25      The lessons learned from the first project have been incorporated
in the proposed second phase by concentrating on the private sector in the
project's main component. Care has also been taken to arrive at realistic
cost and production assumptions, and to ensure that irrigation works and
processing facilities, financed under the Project, would be efficient and
of appropriate design.
II. THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR
A. General
2.01     The history of coffee cultivation in Zambia goes back to the
1920s. Being largely confined to the Northern Province, coffee growing
remained isolated and the lack of support facilities and an export
marketing outlet caused production to remain low. Most of the coffee
consumed in the country is still imported. During 1970/76, local coffee
production, although slowly increasing, averaged about 15 tons of clean
coffee per annum while annual imports averaged about 450 tons. Since then,
with the restrictions on foreign exchange, imports have declined
considerably while local production has been increasing. This increase is
due mostly to the implementation of the IDA-assisted Coffee Production
Project. Total production at plantation maturity has been estimated to
reach about 800 tons per annum. A similar output is forecast for a 400 ha
coffee estate which is being developed by the Mpongwe Development Corpora-
tion - a company owned 51i by GRZ and financed in part by IFC. This
potential production, combined with that currently grown by smallholders
and commercial farmers (about 140 tons), should satisfy local requirements
of about 600 tons (para 2.14) and leave about 1,000 - 1,200 tons surplus
for export. Recently, interest in coffee production has been growing
rapidly among all groups of farmers. Efforts to expand production have,
however, been constrained by lack of experience in coffee growing and
processing technology, inadequate and unfocussed extension support,
insufficient credit availability and uncertainty with respect to Government
coffee policy.
2.02      Growing Conditions.  The northern areas of Zambia are the most
suitable for the production of high quality arabica coffee. The region's
altitude, ranging from 1,300 to 1,700 meters, is well suited to arabica
coffee. This type of coffee can be grown in lower altitudes but its
intrinsic quality would be lower. Temperatures are also within the range
required, with the mean monthly range between 8°C and 28°C. The soils,
however, are mostly acidic and poor with low nutrient and organic matter
content but this constraint can be overcome with appropriate soil manage-
ment and fertilizing. The annual rainfall varies from around 1,100mm to
more than 1,400mm along the Zairean border but there is considerable
variation between years. The rainfall is monomodal iith rains from
October/November to April/May and little or no precipitation at all from
June to September. Given the water requirements for mature bearing coffee,



- 11 -
there is generally a net water deficit and hence an irrigation requirement
for about 7 months, from April through October. Generally the rainfall
pattern in Zambia is not conducive to the cultivation of rainfed coffee.
The peak irrigation demand occurs at the end of the dry season during
August, September and October when there are high temperatures and a net
irrigation requirement varying from about 110mm to 160mm per month.
Mulching, which improves the soil structure, conserves moisture and
maximizes the effect of irrigation, is therefore an essential cultural
practice. Irrigation potential in Zambia is considerable, mainly Iln the
form of perennial streams, rivers or wells. Well water is sometimes saline
(calcium salts) and requires testing for irrigation purposes.
2.03      Processing.  The processing methods are closely related to the
coffee "type' as defined by market description. In Zambia, the policy is
to produce high quality washed mild arabica (also referred to as Colombian
mild arabica) which commands the highest prices in the world market. This
type of coffee is processed in two stages. The first stage - wet
processing - is carried out at the farm level in coffee pulperies/ washing
stations owned individually or by farmer groups. Here the coffee is
pulped, fermented, washed and dried with the final product being dry
parchment coffee. The second stage - dry processing - is generally carried
out at a central milling works where the dry parchment is hulled, polished,
graded and sorted into grades suitable for export (para 5.31). At present,
the ZCCL coffee milling complex at Kasama handles the dry processing for
most of the Zambia coffee crop. Small-scale hulling works could also
produce suitable export quality coffee, provided they have appropriate
equipment and management.
2.04      Cultivation.  At present, there are about 1200 smallholders
cultivating 215 ha of recently planted coffee (about 0.12 ha per plot) most
of which is unirrigated. There are a further 800 ha of coffee at various
stages of development, established by commervial farmers and the ZCCL.
Only arabica coffee is grown. The varieties coinsist mainly of a limited
range of genetic material derived from Kenya and Zimbabwe. Quality trials
have shown that these varieties have retained their inherent favorable
quality characteristics in Zambia. If cultivated using sound agronomic
practices and processed correctly, they should meet the quality require-
ments of the high-priced market for Colombian milds and provide a valuable
export opportunity. A potential drawback to these varieties is their known
susceptibility to Coffee Berry Disease (CBD), as evidenced in Kenya,
Ethiopia and Tanzania. New resistant hybrids (with high quality character-
istics) have been bred in Kenya and these will be considered, when
available in 1987/88, as a substitute for currently used varieties. No
incidence of CBD has been reported in Zambia. Lower altitude arabicas
would command somewhat lower export prices due to their lower intrinsic
quality.
2.05      Labor availability is generally adequate to meet the labor
demands for coffee cultivation by smallholders and large farmers.
Regarding the latter, neither ZCCL nor commercial farmers growing coffee
have experienced significant difficulties in this respect. For small-
holders, the main source of labor would be the farmer's family, with a
typical farm family providing about 540 man days of labor annually. In
some cases this may not be sufficient for meeting the needs for both food
crop and coffee production. For instance, a typical smallholder family



- 12 -
growing 0.5 ha of coffee would need to hire an estimated 80 man-days mainly
for harvesting.   However, this should pose no difficulty as harvesting and
main-pruning of coffee, the two activities requiring most labor, fall into
the period when food crops require little labor.
2.06      Yields.  Under Zambian conditions arabica coffee starts bearing
in the thirT year after planting (ANNMX II Chart 2) and maximum yield is
reached in years 6 and 7 after planting, after which a 5-year pruning cycle
is established. Unirrigated coffee has a poor yield potential - about 380
kg/ha of clean coffee. For irrigated coffee, smallholders and small-scale
emergent farmers can achieve average yields of about 950 kg/ha; large
emergent farmers of about 1,200 kg/ha; commercial farmers who generally
have the highest levels of inputs and management can achieve average yields
of 1,700 kg/ha from mature bearing coffee (para 6.01).
2.07      Services to Coffee Growers.  Coffee development (mainly for
smallholders) is presently the responsibility of LINTCO's Coffee Develop-
ment Division. So far, about 1200 smallholders concentrated in the
Northern and North Western provinces have taken up coffee production.
LINTCO is presently assisting coffee growers through the provision of
credit, input supply, extension and marketing services. Its coffee
division is headed by a Divisional Manager who reports to LINTCO's General
Manager, and has four departments:  Administration, Accounts, Extension,
and Marketing. Total staff of the Division is 125 of whom only 24 are
directly involved in extension, on secondment from MAWD. LINTCO has been
successful in stimulating interest in coffee development, especially among
smallholders. The number of coffee growers has almost doubled since LINTCO
became involved in the coffee sub-sector in 1983. While this development
is encouraging, the extension effort has not always been effective because:
(a) the scattered distribution of the existing smallholder coffee growers
has made effective provision of services difficult and costly; (b) due to
the scattering and lack of expertise in group organization, little
attention has been paid to grouping small coffee growers into organiza-
tional units which could make use of improved coffee processing plants and
economical irrigation facilities; (c) extension staff is insufficiently
trained in coffee agronomy and processing; (d) extension transport
facilities and equipment are inadequate; and (e) expertise in irrigation
development and in coffee processing among LINTCO staff is lacking.
2.08      The Coffee Research Unit operating from the Misamfu main station
comprises an agronomist, a senior agricultural assistant and two junior
staff. At each of the two sub-stations, one senior assistant and two
junior staff are based. Research, which started in a meaningful way in
1959, concentrated initially on the evaluation of Kenyan and Tanzanian
coffee varieties and eventually resulted in SL28 and SL34 from Kenya being
recommended as preferred arabica varieties for Zambia. Other topics of
research included pruning systems, comparative evaluation of irrigation and
mulching, spacing, nutrient requirements and crop protection. A handbook
containing recommendations for coffee cultivation in Zambia was published
in 1974. Due to severe financial constraints, an increasing number of
ongoing trials are now threatened to be discontinued and no new information
is being generated.



- 13 -
B. Coffee Marketing
2.09      World Coffee Market. The international coffee market is
characterized by large variations in production and prices, with periodic
low production brought about by frost or drought in the main growing areas,
and average supplies exceeding demand. As recently as 1984, declared
coffee stocks in producing countries amounted to more than half of the
annual world consumption. Presently, the coffee varket is in turmoil,
because of drought-induced production declines in Brazll. Coffee availa-
bility has declined, and prices almost doubled between October 1985 and
early 1986. Since then coffee prices have, however, dropped again to a
level about 45X above the one prevailing in mid-1985. It is expected that
the market will stabilize in 1987 as a result of production recovery. For
the longer term, world import demand is forecast to increase at a rate of
1.3% - 1.5% per annum approximately in line with the expansion of
production, and coffee stocks are expected to remain below the high levels
of recent years.
2.10      To avoid serious consequences of sharp fluctuations in prices on
the economy of many producing nations, the majority of both the exporting
and the importing countries have created the International Coffee Organiza-
tion (ICO) and entered into a series of International Coffee Agreements
(ICA) (1962, 1968, 1976 and 1983). Exporting countries have agreed not to
exceed the annually allocated export quotas, and importing members have
agreed to buy the bulk of their requirements from exporting members. The
organization fixes a "basic quotae for all major exporting members and, at
the beginning of each coffee year, determines, in the light of consumption
estimates, what percentage of the basic quota the actual export quota will
be for the coming year. Special arrangements are made for members who
export annually less than 24,000 m tons.  In the course of the year, price
fluctuations may lead to some adjustments, either upward or downward.
Sales to non-members, the so-called 'non-quota markets", are free from
restriction, but in 1982/83 these constituted only about 10% of coffee
imports by consuming countries.
2.11      For the time being, due to the prevailing high coffee prices, the
ICO quota system has been suspended. Prior to the current difficulties in
the ICO, strains in the coffee agreement were increasing as a result of
growing sales to non-quota countries. Total shipments to non-quota coffee
markets almost doubled during the past five years, from a level of somewhat
over 6 million bags (60 kg each) in 1979/80 to almost 12 million bags in
1984/85. Prices accepted from non-quota countries have usually been 30% to
40X below those received from quota markets. Aside from having to pay
prices that are above market clearing levels, consumer countries complain
about the exclusive emphasis in the quota system on quantity with disregard
for quality. As a result, the system provides only limited incentive to
increase the overall quality of coffee produced, a factor that the major
consumers, particularly in Europe, consider disadvantageous for the long
term development of the coffee market. As a result of these accumulating
dissatisfactions, the U.S. had reportedly threatened to withdraw from the
agreement by September/October 1986. For now however, it is expected that
the agreement will continue. Whatever the future of the existing ICA, upon
its expiration in 1989, any new coffee agreement will have to pay heed to
the wishes of the consuming countries to a much larger extent than has so
far been the case. Such a new agreement would be expected to be more
favorable to the quality producers.



- 14 -
2.12      It is widely expected that coffee prices will be relatively high
for the next two years and drop thereafter.  The Bank's Commodities Studies
and Projections Division has prepared the following tentative price
projection for arabica coffee (U.S. cents/kg):
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Nominal    440   360   340   330   350   380   410   440   470   500
real*      383   298   266   242   242   250   259   267   286   284
* deflated by MKV, 1984=100
A repeat of the price cycle that followed the 1975 frost in Brazil, with
the ICA in effect, would lead to a scenario as shown here, i.e., high
prices for up to two years, followed by a decline. Such a scenario could
be expected irrespective of the future of the ICA. The collapse of the ICA
would have limited or no effect on prices for the next two years.
Thereafter, however, prices would most likely be lower without an ICA than
they would be with such an agreement as the market, in the absence of quota
determined restriction, would try to clear the still existing surplus
production.2/
2.13      Quality is a major consideration in the marketability of coffee.
It is generally accepted in the coffee market that East African washed
arabicas are of above average quality. Although in some cases there may be
a question as to whether the premium paid for quality arabicas (about 17%
above the price fetched by lower quality arabicas) justifies the extra
production costs required, the trade considers that there will always be a
demand for high quality coffees. The main reason for the strong demand for
quality coffee is its ability to upgrade lower quality coffees in a
standard blend. The main market for high quality arabicas is in Europe,
where the demand for aromatic, high acid coffee is strong. The demand for
these coffees in the U.S., however, is limited. The estimated annual
supply of high quality East African Arabica coffees is small, at about
100,000 to 150,000 tons per annum amounting to not more than 2.5% to 4% of
total world coffee exports per year. The supply of similar coffees from
Central American countries has been stagnant because of civil disturbances
in that region. The issue of marketability is important with or without a
quota system. In the absence of an ICA quota, it would be easier for a
small producer to compete in a market with a product that has recognized
quality characteristics. In case a new ICA agreement is reached in 1989,
in whatever form, the production of a better than average quality coffee by
a given country will strengthen its leverage in obtaining a satisfactory
quota.
2.14      Zambia Coffee Market.  In the 1984/85 coffee year3/, Zambia
exported 377 tons, its quota under the ICA in that year. A major effort
2/ The Project's expected timetable of development is, in view of forecast
price developments, rather propitious.  Production is not expected to
start until Year Four of the Project and will gradually increase in
Years Five and Six. Even under optimistic assumptions, the Project
will not start until mid-1987. Hence, Project development, prior to
production, would fall in the period of low prices, while the latter
may firm up at the time that the Project's full production is expected.
3/ The coffee year runs from October through September.



- 15 -
was made by ZCCL to fulfill the quota in order to position the country for
favorable consideration when a quota increase was requested.4/ The bulk
of the export consignment - almost 285 tons, or 75% of the total -
originated from ZCCL's own plantations. Commercial farmers contributed
almost 60 tons, or about 15% of the total; LINTCO, from sales by
smallholders, contributed almost 20 tons, or 5% of the total; Lyons Brooke
Bond, a private distributor, contributed a sinilar amount. Estimates of
local consumption, current and future, vary greatly; early estimates,
ranging between 750 to 1,100 tons, were grossly overstated. While future
consumption estimates of between 500 and 600 tons are more realistic, at
present local marketing organizations such as Lyons Brooke Bond have not
roosted more than 30 tons.
2.15      ZCCL is currently the major buyer of coffee in Zambia, and the
sole exporter.  LINTCO collects and purchases from smallholders, while
Lyons Brooke Bond has been purchasing occasional quantities from commercial
farmers and local traders. There are indications that some collection is
done by traders and village chiefs on behalf of small-scale growers.
Hovever, due to the small quantities involved, a collection network has not
yet been established. Last year, 7 commercial farmers delivered their
product to ZCCL for export. Total quantities delivered ranged from 541 kg
to 22.3 tons. Commercial farmers who have exported through ZCCL retained
title to their product, giving the producer the right to retain 50% of the
export proceeds in foreign currency, to be used either for import of
production inputs, or to be sold to commercial banks for so-called pipeline
retirement schemes.5/ ZCCL's marketing, transportation and handling
charges, in the first year of export operations, were approximately 10% of
export proceeds. Judging by its performance last year, i.e., fulfillment
of the country's quota and average export price on a par with Kenyan medium
grades, ZCCL's performance was good. ZCCL's marketing activities include
coffee grading, liquoring, preparation of samples, submission of samples to
prospective buyers and soliciting bids. In its first year of operations,
ZCCL has successfully introduced Zambian coffee to a number of buyers.
Furthermore, ZCCL also managed to sell coffee to end users, such as
roasters, importers and intermediaries. Total foreign exchange earnings of
Zambian coffee in the 1984/85 coffee season were US$996,000, of which
US$114,000 accrued to commercial farmers, US$62,000 to Lyons Brooke Bond
and the remainder, US$820,000, to ZCCL.
2.16      in terms of numbers of producers serviced, LINTCO's collection
efforts are the most important. The company recognizes three grades of
coffee with current prices respectively at K3, K2.7 and K1.35 per kg of
parchment. Corresponding purchase prices from ZCCL for the same grades are
respectively K4, K3.70 and K1.85 per kg.  LINTCO's margin thus extends from
33% for the top grade to 37% fo,- the other grades. Almost all coffee
purchased by LINTCO has been of the lower grades. Coffee is collected by
LINTCO's extension workers, weighed and bagged at the farm. The producer
receives a crop receipt, against which he is paid, reportedly, within two
to three weeks by the same LINTCO extension officer. In 1985, LINTCO
collected from approximately 1,200 smallholders, a total equivalent of
4/ In September of 1986 Zambia's quota was increased to 450 tons, but this
is now of little relevance as quotas have been suspended.
5/  The incentive created by the 50% retention of export proceeds has been
one of the strongest inducements for commercial farmers to enter coffee
production.



- 16 -
about 20 tons of clean beans, and sold this to ZCCL. LINTCO relinquishes
ownership of its coffee when selling to ZCCL. LrNTCO's activities on
behalf of the smallholders are not yet satisfactory, and its margLn, which
covers distrlbution of Inputs, marketing, transport and overheads, at over
33% is high, and payment delays are frequent. Furthermore, it has not yet
been able to capture for the smallbolders the profits available from the
50% foreign exchange retention scheme.
2.17      In light of this broad marketing picture, It would be justified
for a country such as Zambia to develop its potential for producing the
higher quality coffees. Frra the 377 tons of coffee sales made by Zambia
under its ICO export quota during the last coffee year, it appears that
Zambian coffee can meet market requirements for higher quality arabicas.
Such coffees have generally been able to obtain price premiums over low
qualities ranging from about 15-20%. The average price received so far by
Zambia for shipments of main grade coffee was almost US$3,100/ton f.o.b.
C. Government Coffee Policy
2.18      Since August 1982, the Government, in collaboration with the Bank
Group, has worked on a statement for its coffee policy. Earlier emphasis
placed on public sector involvement in the operations of the sub-sector
appears inappropriate. During the preparation phase of the present
Project, a paper on Policy Issues for Coffee Development, to assist
Government in formulating a suitable coffee development program, was
prepared and discussed with all ministries and institutions concerned.
Based on the understandings reached, MAWD prepared a draft policy paper
which IDA found to be generally satisfactory. The draft including some
modifications suggested by IDA (Annex I), has been approved by MAWD and has
become official policy as of September 1986. It is expected that this
Policy will establish aframework required for the successful coffee
development in Zambia and hence provide the right environment for the
proposed Project. The paper would form the basis of the proposed Coffee
Act currently under preparation by MAWD.  At Negotations, a draft coffee
act was submitted to IDA for coumments.  Assurances were obtained that IDA's
comments would be incorporated in the final copy.
III. PROJECT ARRA AND BENEFICIARIES
3.01      Most of the existing coffee plantings are located in northern
Zambia (para 2.02), bet some commercial farmers also grow coffee success-
fully under irrigation in the southern part of the country. Experience
with coffee cultivation in the northern area has been mixed. While
commercial and emergent farmers, using irrigation, have generally well
established plantations with good yields, smallholders and small emergent
farmers are showing uneven results.  Suallholders and emergent farmers
using supplementary irrigation have generally been successful in establi-
shing coffee plots. However, because of farmers' lack of experience in
coffee cultivation and the Government's inability to provide adequate
extension support, there have also been several cases where plantation
establishment has been poor, and for rainfed coffee, results have been for
the most part, disappointing.
3.02      The project beneficiaries would be smallholders, emergent farmers
and commercial farmers who would meet the Project's lending conditions



- 17 -
(para 5.18) for the establishment or expanslon of Irrigated coffee. To
increase coffee production and ensure that smallholders' and emergent
farmers' coffee is of high quality, it will be essential that coffee
development under the Project is in areas where: (a) agro-climatic
conditions are suLtable for coffee production; (b) irrLgation can be made
available at a reasonable cost; and (c) extension services, transport and
inputs can be supplied in a cost-effectlve man-ter. With regard to small-
scale coffee growers, this will require concen:ration on groups of farmers
In a limited number of areas.   The objective, therefore, would be to form
groups of smallholders/small emergent farmers planting a mLnuLmu of 10 ha
of coffee within a radius of about 5 km from a central point (para 5.07).
This would enable LINTCO staff to provlde intensive extension support at
lower cost, and would facilitate the establishment of central processing
facilities, which would be important for ensuring high coffee quality.
Accordingly, Project assistance and future extension support to emergent
farmers and smallholders would be limited to those farmers who individually
or as a group would be able to plant at least 10 ha of coffee. Further-
more, in view of the limited coffee expertise in Zambia and the time
required to bulld up such expertise, it would be necessary during the
inltial Project years to limit Project extension services and assistance to
groups of smallholders and emergent farmers located in Northern and Luapula
ProvLnces, where farmer concentratlon is hlgher and distances lnvolved are
shorter than in North-Western Province. Only when the success of coffee
development by farmers' groups ln these two Provinces has been established
would Project support be extended to North-Western Province, beginning, at
the earliest, in the fourth Project year.
3,03      The latest Agricultural Census done in 1980 shows that in the
Northern Province there are about 9M ha of potential arable land (57% of
the total area); about half of this is mostly under shiftLig cultivation by
about 407,000 farm families with an average holding of 2 ha. The major
crops grown are sorghum/millets (38X of the area cultivated), maize (301)
and cassava (19%), and minor crops such as groundnuts, pulses and coffee.
Luapula Province has about 1.2M ha of potential arable land (40% of the
total area) of which 09M ha is under shifting cultLvation by about 80,000
farm families cultivating an average of 2 ha each. Major crops grown
consist of Cassava (37%), maize (33%) and millets/sorghum (21Z) with minor
crops such as rice, pulses and groundnuts. North-Western Province with a
total land area of 12.6M ha is the most sparsely populated province in
Zambia and information on arable land and area under cultivatlon is not
known. However, there are about 53,000 farm families cultivatLng an
average of about 2.5 ha of land under shifting cultivation. The major
crops grown are millets/sorghum (40%), cassava (25%) and maize (24%), and
other minor crops such as pulses and groundnut..
3.04      Commercial and large emergent farmers engaged or lnterested in
coffee growing need extension support, with regard to both cultlvations and
processing. As commercial farmers would plant large areas,coffee extenslon
servlces could be provided effectively and at low cost even outside the
northern areas. As in the case of small farmers, extension services to
commerclal farmers would be provided by LINTCO. The provision of such
services and Project financial support would, however, be limited to
commercial farmers who have the ability and potential to grow profitably
hlgh quality arabica coffee.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Support
4.01      In line with the objectives of the Government's Fourth National
Development Plan and the Bank Group's strategy for agricultural development
In Zambia, the proposed Project would: (a) expand the country's agri-
cultural base; (b) diversify its sources of foreign exchange earnings; and
(c) provide an additional source of income for the rural porulation. The
Project would place emphasis on investments that are directly related to
increased coffee production. The Project would assist in the establish-
ment of the coffee industry in Zambia within a suitable institutional
framework and in building up additional national expertise in the manage-
ment of production and marketing (local and foreign) of an agricultural
commodity. The Project would also constitute one of the key elements of
the Bank's strategy to support diversifieu agricultural development in
Zambia (para 1.18).
B. Project Objectives and General Description
4.02      The main objective of the Project at full development would be to
produce annually 4,700 tons of high quality arabica coffee from about 3,300
he of coffee plantations which would be established under the Project. This
incremental production would increase Zambia's exportable coffee to about
5,800 tons and provide sufficient coffee to meet domestic coffee consump-
tion of about 600 tons per year (para 2.14). Coffee production from
existing plantations is estimated to reach 1,700 tons per year at full
development. Unlike the first Coffee Production Project (Credit 863-ZA,
para 1.20), which was oriented towards parastatal estate development, the
Project would concentrate on coffee development in the private sector,
involving about 1200 coffee farmers (para 5.15). It would be located in
areas agro-climatically suitable for coffee production and would enable
cost-effective processing, transport and marketing of coffee. The proposed
Project would address farmers' constraints (para 2.01) in expanding coffee
production and in establishing suitable processing facilities.
4.03      The Project, which would be implemented over a period of seven
years, would comprise the following components:
(a) provision of credit through participating banks to
small-holders, emergent farmers and commercial farmers for
the establishment and expansion of coffee plantings;
irrigation systems; equipment; pumps; farm implements and
vehicles; and for the installation of coffee processing
facilities and stores, and of other necessary infrastructure;
(b) strengthening LINTCO's Coffee Development Division, by
providing vehicles, extension materials, equ$pment, training
and technical assistance for coffee extension support;
(c) strengthening the coffee research establishment and the
provision of civil works; vehicles; equipment; supplies;
study tours; and teehnical assistance and training;
(d) technical assistance and training in coffee marketing; and



- 19 -
(e) assistance to ZCCL to improve its performance and make the
Company financially viable. Funds would be made available to
(a) strengthen management; (b) improve the existing irriga-
tion system; (c) add and replace necessary machinery, equip-
ment and housing and (d) complete the coffee planting program
to bring the coffee area to 450 ha.
C. Detailed Features
4.04      Credit and Coffee Plantings.  '1e Project would finance sub-loans
for investments required by Project beneficiaries. The sub-loans would be
made for: (a) the establishment of new irrigated coffee plantations and
the expansion of existing plantings, including overhead expenditures for
staff, machinery and vehicle operation, and repair and maintenance; (b) the
construction of on-farm tracks and irrigation facilities for coffee farms;
(c) the purchase of machinery and tools; and (d) coffee processing facili-
ties and stores. The sub-loans would be made by participating banks (paras
5.16 to 5.21) after they have reviewed the sub-project reports (feasibility
studies) to be prepared by the potential borrowers (Annex IV, Schedule 2),
using loan procedures to be agreed with IDA. The institutions who at
appraisal agreed to participate in the credit component are: Zambia
National Commercial Bank; Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia; Barclays Bank
of Zambia; and the Development Bank of Zambia. Other credit institutions
could join later provided they meet criteria satisfactory to IDA.6/
4.05      Development of coffee farms and plantations would be phaiaed over
the seven year Project period. The area of coffee planted each year would
depend on the time when different farmers commence participation in the
Project.  Farmers would be able to join the Project until and including the
fourth Project year. Accordingly the following phasing of farmers'
participation and of area planted to coffee would be expected (details are
in Annex III, Table 1):
Project             New Farmer               Area
Year              Participation            Planted
1                     235 I/                120
2                     225                   330
3                     320                   470
4                     425                   740
5                     -                     880
6                     -                     710
Total:                 1,205                 3,250
I/ Includes existing coffee growers expanding to
new areas.
Taking into consideration the existing interest in coffee growing by the
different types of farmers, the time and effort required to establish
viable groups of smallholders/small emergent farmers, and thie period over
which a farmer can be expected to carry out tie planting program, the
following farmer participation in the project wolild be expected:
6/ The Bank Group is appraising the proposed Agricultural Credit Project
which would use, as the rain participating credit insitution, the new
LIMA bank being established by GRZ. LIMA Bank would be considered for
project lending to coffee farmers when the proposed Agricultural Credit
Project becomes effective.



- 20 -
Number of
Farmers       Hectarage
Smallholders/Small Emergent
Farmers                        1,lOO            450
Larger Emergent Farmers            70             950
Commercial Farmers                 35           1,850
Total:                        1,205           3,250
Development of a coffee area would require bush clearing, land preparation,
and planting using hired oz family labor. For the establishment, operation
and maintenance of coffee plantations, farmers would require vehicles,
agricultural machinery and equipment (Annex IlI,Table 2).  Funds for these
purposes as well as for processing facilities and stores would be available
under the Project. The total amount reserved for the credit component, at
base cost of about K139M (US$19M), would be provided according to the
actual demand (Annex III, Table 7). On basis of farm models developed
during Project preparation, It was estimated that about 52% of the credit
component would be used for establiskeant and expansion of plantations, 151
for on-farm tracks and irrigation development, 11% for machinery and tools,
and 221 for processiug facilities (Annex ltI,Table 3).
4.06      Coffee Extension Services.  Partly as a result of an ineffective
extension service provided by LINTCO (para 2.07), coffee yields, especially
on smallholder coffee plots, are oftan wall below potential; and crop
husbandry practices frequently do not meet appropriate standards. The
scattercd distribution of existing smallholder coffee growers, the lack of
coffee production experience and the shortage of transport are among the
major reasons for the ineffectiveness. The Project would address these
shortcomings through: (a) grouping smallholder coffee growers; (b) concen-
trating additional coffee development in suitable areas; (c) strengthening
LINTCO's technical service through recruitment of one coffee extension
agronomist, one irrigation engineer, one coffee processing specialist, one
smallholder organization/management specialist and one accountant; (d)
providing training courses and study tours for staff and farmers; and (a)
procuring vehicles and equipment. The Project would also finance an
additional 10 camp workers to improve the efficiency and intensity of
extension visits.
4.07      The technical specialists would be recruited internationally and
funds for their employment would be made available for up to four years.
During the last year and as part of the consultants terms of reference a
local counterpart would take over the responsibilities of the consultants
who, by that time, would have sn advisory role. Provisions for training
would be made under the Project for local counter-parts, including
provincial and district coffee officers. Three month training courses
would be available for extension personnel and staff of participating
banks. Much of the training would be coordinated by the Extension Agrono-
mist and given on-the-job, mainly by the Project-funded consultants. The
Project would also finance short-term study tours to neighboring coffee
growing countries and short-term overseas training. Training activities
form part of a detailed training program worked out for all project staff.
In addition, the Project would support short courses/workshops for coffee
growers; well kept coffee demonstration plots; and extension leaflets and
literature to be prepared by the Extension Agronomist. Extension-research
linkages would be strengthened by Project support for annual research-
extension workshops with outside consultants.



- 21 -
4.08      Equipment and vehicles required for effective coffee extension
work would be provided under the Project to extension staff and consul-
tants. Vehicles would comprise: 4-wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles, and
bicycles. The 4-wheel drive vehicles would be owned by LINTCO while motor-
cycles and bicycles would become the property of extension staff who would
receive loans from LINTCO for their procurement. Should extension officers
leave their post, LINTCO would have the option to purchase these vehicles
back. As spare parts for existing vehicles are presently lacking, a
provision would be made in the Project for spare parts procurement. The
Project would also finance incremental recurrent G?erating costs. The base
cost estimate of the Project's extension component is about  191M, or
US$2.6M (Annex III, Table 4).
4.09      Coffee Research.  Financial constraints have almost cut off
funding for coffee research. Some of the few remaining trials are
threatened to be discontinued and need immedlate attention. The Project
would strengthen on-going government coffee research and would also cover
the requirements over and above those included under the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project. The component would compliment the
National program and would therefore not be an Isolated research activit7.
Improvements in facilities at the main station at Misamfu and the
sub-station at Lucheche proposed under the National program would not be
adequate to meet all requirements for the Project particularly since a
number of activities such as water, leaf and soil analysis are project
specific. Project support would consist of: (a) improvements of trial
sites and processing facilities at Misamfu and Lucheche, and renovation of
three houses at Lucheche; (b) provision cf laboratory and scientific
equipment; (c) farm implements and equipment; (d) books and publications;
(e) two four-wheel drive vehicles and two motor bicycles; (f) strengthening
of staff; and (g) technical assistance (para 5.08). The Project would
furthermore assist in financing (h) soil and foliar analysis services to be
made available to coffee growers (para 5.09), (i) collaborative coffee
research with neighboring countries (para 5.10) and (j) support the
Department of Natural Resources with environmental control analysis (para
4.31).  The Project base cost estimate for this component is about R4N or
US$ 0.6M (Annex III, Table 5).
4.10      The Project would only provide for Incremental expenditures
associated with extension and research activities. It is expected that
GRZ's present budget allocations for LINTCO's Coffee Development Division
and for coffee research would be maintained for the duration of the Project
(see also paras 4.20 and 4.26). During project implementation it would be
reviewed whether the newly established Zambia Coffee Growers Association
(para 5.37) could take over most of the coffee extension responsibilities
and expenditures, thus reducing the financial obligations of GRZ towards
the extension component. Since at full development the total value of
marketed coffee would be about US$18M and the cost of extension services
about US$0.51, farmers would have to pay about of US$75 per ton of coffee
or about 2.5% of the value of their coffee to pay for those services.
4.11      Marketing.  Part-time consulting services in coffee marketing
were provided to ZCCL under rhe Coffee Production Project (Credit 863-ZA).
Much of ZCCL's export marketing success was a result of these services.
Furthermore, ZCCL staff received some training in marketing procedures,
including coffee liquoring, both in Zambia and abroad. However, there is



- 22 -
still considerable need for broadening and deepening coffee marketing
expertise. The Project would therefore finance an additional 36 man-months
of expert assistance In coffee marketing and would support further training
of Zambian staff In all aspects of the coffee trade. Since further coffee
development would be mainly a private sector undertaking, the marketing
expertise initially developed under the aegis of ZCCL may, at a later
stage, be transferred to the newly established Zambian Coffee Growers
Association (para 5.37). The Project base cost estimate of this component
is about K3M, or US$ O.4M (Annex III, Table 6).
4.12      ZCCL.  The Project would finance management and technical
assistance required to improve agricultural practices and enable satis-
factory operation of the coffee factory constructed under the first project
(para 1.20). It would also finance, as part of the management team, the
engagement of an irrigation engineer to help ZCCL upgrade the existing
furrow distribution system; design, and implement, if required, alternative
application systems; and ensure that Irrigation Is carried out
efficiently. INDECO, ZCCL's parent company, has selected Tate and Lyle
Technical Services to provide the required management and technical
expertise. The terms and conditions proposed for the engagement of Tate
and Lyle and the specialists employed are satisfactory to IDA.
4.13      Training would be provided to ZCCL's management staff in areas
such as coffee production, processing, engineering and general management.
Much of the training would be on-the-job, provided by the management team
financed under the Project. In addition, the Project would fund training
and study tours in neighboring countries where effective training programs
can be arranged with existing coffee estates and processing institutions.
4.14      Some of ZCCL's existing machinery, vehicles and equipment are in
urgent need of replacement. There is also need for additional equipment
and vehicles. Funds for procurement of required machinery, equipment and
transport would be provided under the Project. The Project would also
finance improvement of the present irrigation system and, if justified,
installation of alternative irrigation facilities. Power for ZCCL's coffee
factory is presently provided by generator sets which were initially to be
used mainly as stand-by facilities. While the generators now available may
be adequate for meeting power requirements in the short-term, the existing
arrangement would be unsatisfactory in the longer term. Alternative power
supplies are therefore being studied. Electrification of the factory would
be financed under the Project. Prepartion of plans satisfactory to IDA for
(a) estate irrigation, including the design of a suitable irrigation
system; and (b) factory electrification would be a condition of IDA
disbursement against expenditures incurred under these components (para
8.02).
4.15      The Project would provide funds to ZCCL for the procurement of
workshop machinery and equipment, office equipment and facilities, and
spare parts. It would finance additional housing needs for ZCCL's labor
and management staff, and construction of a dispensary. The total base
cost of this component Is estimated at K30M, or US$4.2M (Annex III, Table
8). However, investment needs for ZCCL will be reviewed during the
preparation of a Corporate Plan which will be financed under a technical
assistance grant from CFTC (para 5.14). This plan is expected to be
completed by November 1986. Submission of the Corporate Plan acceptable to



- 23 -
IDA and adoption of such Plan by ZCCL and its parent INDECO would be a
condition of disbursement against Project expenditures by ZCCL - except for
expenditures financed under PPF.
D. Project Costs
4.16      Total costs of the Project, including physical and price
contingencies are estimated at about K251.3M (US$34.9M), with a foreign
exchange component of US$21.8M or 63%. Details on Project costs by
component, summarized below, are in Annex III, Tables 4 - 8. The cost
estimates are based on prices prevailing in May 1986. Project costs have
been calculated on the basis of an exchange rate of K7.2 per US$1.00.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been provided for civil works and for
costs of equipment and vehicles. Costs of spares (estimated at 15% of
purchase price) have been included in the base costs for equipment and
vehicles. Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs have been
added based on the expected increases in world prices, of 7.1% for 1986,
6.8Z for 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4% thereafter.
Price contingencies have been calculated on the assumption that differences
between domestic and international inflation rates would be offset by
exchange rate adjustments.
Project Cost Summary
(Kwacha '000)            (US$ '000)                % Total
%Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange  Costs
== .      = .=     = =         ==       ...         ..=  =   =
A. Credit                  55,712 83,569 139,281   7,738 11,607 19,345    60          71
B. Extension                6,622  11,894  18,516    920   1,652 2,572    64          9
C. Research                 1,465  2 860  4,325    204    397   601    66             2
D. Marketing                  412  2,562  2,974       57    356   413    86           2
E. Assistance to Coffee Co.  8,138 21,765 29,903  1,130  3,023 4,153    73            15
Total Baseline Costs       72,349 122,650 195,000  10,049  17,035 27,083    63       100
Physical Contingencies I/    715  1,715  2,430       99    238   338    71           1
Price Congingencies       21,019 32,880 53,898  2,919  4,567 7,486    61            28
Total PROJECT COSTS        94,083 157,245 251t328 13,067 21,840 34,907    63         129
1/ Physical contingencies for all components except credit.
E. Financing
4.17      IDA has allocated US$20.4M to the proposed Project.  For the
Project's credit component, it is expected that participating farmers would
contribute about 25% of the costs associated with plantation establishment,
irrigation development, agricultural machinery and tools, and the
establishment of coffee processing facilities. Farmers' total contribution
would thus be K46.3M (US$6.4M).  Participating credit institutions would
contribute from their own resources on average about 20% of the credit
which they would extend to finance 75% of the cost of on-farm development
and of the procurement of machinery and facilities, i.e., a total of 128.1M
(US$3O9M). Government contribution would be about 30% of the Project's
research, extension and environmental monitoring costs: K8.7M (US$1.2M).



- 24 -
Expenditures under the ZCCL component would be expected to be financed (a)
45% by equity contributions - K16.1M (US$2.2M), (b) 402 by long-term loans
- K14.4M (US$2.0M), and (c) 15% by cash generated by ZCCL from its
operations - K6.1M (US$0.8M).
4.18      Assuming that adequate equity funding for ZCCL is secured, the
financing plan (including contingencies) would be:
US$ Million
ZCCL
Part.                Equity
Project Element    Total GRZ 1/ Banks Farmers ZCCL Partner(s  IDA
Credit Component   25.7   -       3.9    6.4    -      -       15.4
Coffee Extension    3.0  1.0       -      -     -      -        2.0
Coffee Research     0.7  0.2       -      -     -      -        0.5
Coffee Marketing    0.5   -        -      -     -      -        0.5
ZCCL Component      5.0   -       -      -    0.8    2.2        2.0
TOTAL:           34.9  1.2      3.9    6.4   0.8    2.2      20.4
Percent of Total  100    4       11     18     2      6         59
I/ Does not include GRZ's present budget allocation of about K1.5N per
year for coffee research and extension (see para 4.10).
4.19      The IDA Credit of US$20.4M would meet about 592 of Project
cc-;ts. The Credit component would be channelled through GRZ to participa-
ting banks for on-lending to eligible coffee farmers requiring credit for
coffee development. US$2.0M would be channelled through GRZ for on-lending
to ZCCL. Funds for coffee marketing (US$0.5M) would be on-lent by GRZ to
ZCCL and/or the new coffee export marketing organization expected to be
established in accordance with Government policy (paras 5.36 and 5.37).
On-lending to farmers would be through sub-loans denominated in Kwacha or
in foreign currency.  Farmers would be able to choose the currency
denomination of their borrowings.  Interest rates on foreign currency
sub-loans would be in accordance with the Bank Group's policy on lending to
commercial entities.  Interest on local currency loans would be in line
with rates char-ed by participating banks for similar loans outside the
Project.  Raving been decontrolled, interest rates on Kwacha loans are
considerably higher than on foreign loans, reflecting high local inflation
and the exchange risk, and are satisfactory to IDA. Should interest rates
be again controlled, then the rates charged on project loans would be set
at a level to be agreed with IDA to ensure that they wtuld be positive in
real terms and include an adequate margin to cover the exchange risks. An
assurance to this effect was obtained from GRZ during Negotiations. To
ensure that farmers wlth foreign loans would be able to meet debt service
requirements in foreign currency, an assurance was obtained from GRZ that
Project farmers be allowed to retain from their foreign exchange earnings,
amounts which would be adequate for this purpose. Loan repayments would be
for a period of up to 12 years. Interest rates would be variable and would
be adjusted periodically. (Details on the proposed credit arrangements are
in paras 5.16 to 5.19.) Execution of subsidiary loan agreements, between
GRZ and participating banks satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para 8.03). On-lending of IDA funds to ZCCL



- 25 -
(US$2.0M) would be in foreign currency at an interest rate in line with the
rate paid by coffee farmers on project loans in foreign exchange. Repay-
ment would be over 15 years with a five year grace period on principal
repayments. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between GRZ and ZCCL - and if applicable, the new coffee marketing
organization - would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures
incurred under the Project's ZCCL and marketing components. Funds for
coffee coffee research and extension (US$2.5M) would be provided as grants
through MAWD to the agricultural research establishment and LINTGO
respectively.
4.20      GRZ's contribution (US$1.2M) would cover the Government's
incremental contribution to LINTCO for improving and strengthening coffee
extension services, and finance part of the funds required under the
Project's research component. GRZ presently provides LINTC0 with about KIM
annually so that the Coffee Division can carry out its existing coffee
related responsibilities. Given the design of the proposed Project, it is
expected that the Division's existing staff and facilities, together with
Project provisions, would be adequate to meet coffee research and extension
needs during the Project period, with only small additions financed by the
Project. GRZ usually makes sufficient budgetary allocations for coffee
research and extension, but funds actually released are often less than
budgeted with the result that the research and extension programs cannot be
carried out effectively. An agreement was reached at Negotiations that the
Government would make adequate budgetary provisions for coffee research and
extension and release the required funds through advance deposits at the
beginning of each quarter to two Project Advance Accounts established for
this purpose (para 4.26).
4.21      Farmers would finance about 18X of Project costs (US$6.4M), put
in as their equity in coffee plantations and processing facilities.
Participating banks would contribute about 11% of Project costs (US$3.9M),
and as part of their normal operations would also finance Project farmers'
seasonal credit needs, which are not included in Project costs.
4.22      Financial projections for ZCCL indicate that the company could
meet about US$0.8M of the funding requirements it would need to Implement
its Project component. Equity funds of about US$2.2M would be needed to
finance part of the component, and to establish a sound financial basis for
the enterprise, including an appropriate debt/equity ratio. CDC is
considering providing some of the additional equity required and other
equity partners are being identified. Selection of suitable equity
partners and completion of participation arrangements satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of IDA disbursement against project expenditures under
the ZCCL component.
F. Procurement
4.23      Procurement of Project requirements would be in accordance with
IDA guidelines and is summarized below:



- 26 -
Procurement Plan
Project Element                  Procurement Method              Total
ICB      LCB      OTHER       N.A.    Cost
Credit Component                 -         -       22.2        3.5      25.7
(15.4)      (-)      (15.4)
Other Components
Equipment, Vehicles,
Supplies & Materials           2.4       0.6       0.3         -        3.3
(1.0)    (0.4)      (0.3)               (1.7)
Civil Works                      -        0.1      (0.5)        -        0.6
-      (0.1)      (0.2)       -        (0.3)
Technical Assistance             -         -        3.4         -        3.4
(2.6)       -       (2.6)
Training                         -         -        0.6         -        0.6
(0.4)       -        (0.4)
Staff, Labor, Irrigation,
Overheads and Incremental
Recurrent Expenses              -         -        0.8        0.5       1.3
TOTAL:                      2.4      0.7       27.8        4.0      34.9
(1.0)    (0.5)    (18.9)      (-)      (20.4)
Note: - Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
- The value for 'other" is high as most of these items will be
procured by participating farmers through the credit component.
Specifically, the following procedures would be adopted:
(a) Machinery, vehicles, materials, seedlings, chemicals and
other supplies required by coffee growers for the establish-
ment of coffee plantations and processing facilities would be
procured by the farmers themselves from local dealers, or
through direct import. For civil works construction and land
clearing, they would arrange for contractors of their own
choice. LINTCO would provide required advice to
smallholders/small emergent farmers requiring asssistance in
equipment and dealer selection and in the comp'etion of
procurement arrangements. Some of the on-farm development
c3sts such as labor, parts of irrigation costs, and most of
the overhead costs do not involve procurement.
(b) Most of the vehicles, equipment, supplies and materials
required by LINTCO, ZCCL, and the coffee research service
would be imported. LINTCO, ZCCL and MAWD would bulk items to
the extent practical and orders of US$100,000 and above would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures In accordance with IDA guidelines. Local
manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Items
expected to cost less than US$100,000 singly and if they do
not lend themselves to bulking, would be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures (LCB). Such procurement would
not exceed US$600,000 in aggregate. Items costing less than
US$25,000 each for which bulking into contracts would not be



- 27 -
practical would be procured by prudent sbopping; such
procurement would not in aggregate exceed US$300,000.
Housing construction and other civil works (US$0.6M) would be
too small to attract international bidding. Contracts for
these would therefore be let after competitive bidding
advertised locally. Local competitive bidding procedures are
satisfactory to IDA and do not exclude foreign firms from
competing. Electrification of ZCCL's coffee factory, if
connected to the national grid, would be carried out by ZESCO
under a contracc to be negotiated between ZCCL and ZESCO. A
draft contract would be submitted to IDA for review before it
is signed.
(c) Technical assistance services to be engaged and arrangements
for foreign training and study tours would be on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The balance of Project costs
would cover expenditures not involving procurement. These
would comprise incremental operating and staff costs for
LINTCO and coffee research; and labor costs as well as parts
of irrigation expenditures incurred by ZCCL for plantation
development. Assurance on the procurement procedures was
obtained during Negotiations, including an assurance that for
all contracts in excess of USS100,000, draft tender documents
and bid evaluation would be submitted to IDA for review prior
to contract award. It is expected that not more than three
such awards would be made, mainly for vehicles and machinery
totaling about US$2.4M.
G. Disbursement
4.24      Disbursement under the proposed IDA Credit would cover:
(a) 100% of sub-loans extended to farmers in foreign currency and
75% of sub-loans extended in local currency (US$11.6M);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for furniture, machinery,
equipment, vehicles, supplies, civil works and spare parts
directly imported by LINTCO or MAWD, and 60% of expenditures
for locally procured items (US$0.3M);
(c) 100% of expenditures incurred by LINTCO and MAWD for
technical assistance, and training (US$1.9M);
(d) 100% of expenditures incurred for technical assistance and
training in marketing (US$0.4M);
(e) 100% of ZCCL's foreign expenditures for machinery, equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, and civil works and 60% of local
expenditures, and 100% for technical assistance and training
other than for marketing (US$1.4M);
(f) 100% of expenditures out of the Project preparation facility
(US$0.7M); and



- 28 -
(g) an unallocated amount of U8$ 4.1M.
4.25      Disbursements for foreign training and technical assistance under
(c), (d) and (e) would be made against full documentation. Similarly,
disbursements for machinery, vehicles, equipment, supplies, spare parts,
furniture, and civil works under (b) and (e) would require full documenta-
tion, except in cases where procurement/construction contracts are valued
at less than US$25,000. In these cases and for local training, disburse-
ment would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) certified by
LINTC0, MAWD and ZCCL respectively. Disbursements against sub-loans by
participating banks would be made against statements of sub-loans certified
by the Bank of Zambia. Documents in support of statements of expenditures
and sub-loans would not be submitted to IDA, but would be retained by
LINTC0, MAWD, ZCCL and participating banks and made available for
inspection by IDA during Project supervision. The statements would be
audited by independent auditors as part of the required annual audit of
accounts (para 4.27). A schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements is
shown in Annex III, Table 24.
4.26      The required GRZ funds for the Project and for the ongoing coffee
extension and research activities not financed under the Project would be
deposited in advance at the beginning of each quarter into two Project
Advance Accounts based on quarterly budgets derived from the annual work
programs prepared by LINTCO's Coffee Division and the Misamfu Research
Station respectively. Establishment of these Accounts and an initial
deposit by GRZ of K500,000 in each one of them would be a ~-ondition of
Credit effectiveness (para 8.03). To ensure that IDA funds for the Project
would be available when needed, GRZ would establish three Special Accounts:
(1) for the credit component, to be managed by the Bank of Zambia on behalf
of the participating banks, with an authorized allocation of USS1M; (ii)
for the extension and research components, to be managed by LINTCO, with an
authorized allocation of US$300,000; and (iii) for the ZCCL and coffee
marketing components, to be managed by ZCCL, with an authorized allocation
of US$300,000. After satisfactory evidence of their establishment and
submission of withdrawal applications, IDA would make advance deposits of
deposits of the authorized allocations. The accounts, which would be
operated on terrs and conditions acceptable to IDA, would be maintained in
foreign currency, with a commercial bank (or, subject to agreement between
IDA and GRZ, with the Bank of Zambia for the credit component). The
Accounts would be replenished perlodically upon receipt and approval of
withdrawal applications accompanied by appropriate supporting documents;
the minimum replenishment size for each Account would be one-fifth of the
authorized allocation. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
Negotiations.
R. Accounts and Audits
4.27      LINTOO, ZCCL, MAWD and participating banks would maintain
separate accounts for the Project in accordance with sound accounting
practices, and ensure that these accounts would ae audited by qualified
independent auditors (which would be financed from the technical assistance
component) acceptable to IDA. Audits would be carried out annually, and
audited accounts together with auditors' comments for each participating
institution would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each



- 29 -
fiscal year. Auditors would be requested to provide within the context of
their audits confirmation that statements of expenditures submidtted by the
concerned Project agency are properly prepared and that Credit funds
claimed have actually been spent and the goods and services procured are
used for the purposes intended under the Project. Auditors would
furthermore be asked to review and commnt on the procedures and controls
used In operating the two Special Accounts. Assurances on these points
were obtained during Negotiations (para 8.01).
4.28      The accounting systems and procedures of LINTCO, ZCCL and
participating banks are satisfactory, but the systems presently in use at
MAUD need to be improved. Particularly, accounts need to be separated by
research program and type of expenditure at each research location. To
carry out required Improvements, the proposed Agricultural Research and
Extension Project would strengthen MAWD's accounting capabilities at Mt.
Makulu and in some of the provinces, including Northern Province where
Misamfu Regional Research Station is located. It would furthermore assist
in the establishment of effective budgeting and financial cost accounting
systems for all activities of NAWD's various research and extension
branches. The measures taken under the Agricultural Research and Extension
Project for addressing the shortcomings of the Ministry's accounting and
budgeting systems would be adequate to ensure that general accounting and
auditing requirements would be met. Technical assistance would be provided
under the technical assistance component of the Project to assist HAWD to
set up a Project specific accounting system.
I. Environmental Impact
4.29      Pulperies/washing stations for wet processed coffee are a source
of the following environmental polluting agentst any residues of plant
protection chemicals from the processed coffee cherry; and polluting agents
resulting from wet processing. These are derived from the pulp/mucilage,
and the liquids from fermentation and washing. If not treated, these
constitute a polluting effluent from the washing station. This effluent
has a high polluting capacity and, if allowed to reach rivers or lakes, can
have detrimental effects on health and ecology.
4.30      To eliminate this hazard, the pulperies established under the
proposed Project would each be provided with effective pollution control
systems whose essential features would be: separation of the pulp from the
pulping water and separate disposal of the coffee pulp; in the case of two
to four disc pulperies, re-circulation of the process water, which would
reduce water requirements from about 100,000 litres to about 23,000 litres
per ton of clean coffee; and seepage pits/lagoons to dispose of the post-
pulping and post-washing effluent. Such systems, as employed in other
coffee growing countries, would ensure that coffee processing would be
environmentally safe. These regulations would be incorporated into the
proposed Coffee Act and failure to comply would result in fines to be set
by the Coffee Board (para 5.36). In order to minimize the negative
environmental impact of the use of pesticides, emphasis would be placed on
the use of chemicals with a narrow spectrum and short persistence.
Dieldrin, a broad spectrum long acting chemical would only be used
selectively, through spot application to the bark of a tree by paint
brush. This procedure was acceptable to IDA.



- 30 -
4.31      To monitor compliance with environmental regulations, the Project
would support the Department of Natural Resources of the Ministry of Lands
and National Resources by providing transportation and manpower. The
laboratory facilities at the Misamfu Research Station would be available
for testing soil and water samples (Annex III, Table 5).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      Overall responsibility for Project execution would rest with
MAWD. To meet coordination needs among the Institutions participating in
the Project and to assist in expeditious resolution of problems, a Project
Management and Coordinating Committee (PMCC) has been established under the
Chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MAWD or his designate, with the
head of LINTCO's Coffee Development Division as its secretary and overall
Project coordinator. The Committee would include representatives from: the
Ministry of Finance (MOF); NCDP; LINTCO; ZCCL; the Coffee Research
Establishment; participating banks; and the new Zambia Coffee Growers
Association (ZCGA) (para 5.37). LINTCO would provide administrative
support to PMCC.
5.02      PMCC would meet as necessary, but at least twice per year, to
review Project progress and formulate policies and directives on Project
implementation. In particular, PMCC would: (a) agree on annual coffee
development plans prepared by LINTCO to be carried out under the Project;
(b) guide and review coffee research programs; (c) review and agree on
annual Project lending programs prepared by participating banks; (d)
monitor physical implementation including the formation of smallholder
groups, establishment of coffee plantations, and setting up of coffee
processing facilities; (e) examine implementation bottlenecks and determine
corrective actions; and (f) ensure timely availability of Inputs and
supplies to Project farmers.
B. Executing Agencies
5.03      Extension Services.  LINTCO's Coffee Development Division would
be responsible for the engagement of the five technical assistants financed
under the proposed Project (para 4.06). These specialists would assist
LINTCO in the preparation of a national coffee extension strategy and
annual coffee development programs. They would also design detailed
training programs for extension staff and farmers and assist in
strengthening the linkages between research and extension through
organizing extension-research workshops. They would be responsible
fortraining local counterparts to take over after Project Year 4. Because
their work would be concentrated in the Northern areas of Zambia, they
would be based at Misamfu or Kasama. The coffee Agronomist would be
expected to be the leader of the group and would report to the General
Manager of LINTCO through the head of the coffee development division.
5.04      The coffee agronomist, the irrigation engineer and the processing
specialist would have overall responsibility for extension support and
training in their respective fields of specialization, working mainly
through Provincial and District Coffee Officers. The main components of



- 31 -
their work would be to: (i) assist LINTCO in the preparation and execution
of a national coffee extension program; (ii) assist in the preparation,
technical evaluation, and supervision of sub-projects for participatlng
farmers; (iii) design and supervise the installation of suitable irrigation
systems and coffee processing facilities; (iv) train staff, design and
coordinate training courses for staff and coffee growers; (v) prepare
appropriate extension literature; and (vi) prepare a training program for
local counterparts to take over their activities.
5.05      The organization/management adviser and the accountant would
assist in the mobilization of farmer groups and help the groups to: (i)
develop an organizational structure and a legal framework conducive to the
successful operation of each individual group; (ii) establish contact with
banks participating in the Project, and prepare data required by the banks;
(iii) develop procedures to be followed in the procurement of equipment and
supplies for the group, the distribution of receipts from coffee sales to
group members, and the recovery of debt service payments to participating
banks from group members; and (iv) establish an accounting system suitable
for farmers' groups. It is anticipated that both specialists would be
recruited in Zambia as their technical expertise is available in the
country.
5.06      The 10 extension staff (camp workers) who would be funded under
the Project would report to the District Coffee Officers. It is envisaged
that each camp worker would provide extension assistance on a day-to-day
basis and each would attend to about three groups of smallholders and eight
to ten emergent/commercial farmers. Project consultants would provide
on-the-job training to LINTCO's coffee extension staff and to coffee
growers. Annual training courses of 2-3 months duration would also be
organized for the extension staff. The courses would cover the major
aspects of coffee establishment, production, processing and marketing, and
would also provide some knowledge in farm management, planning, budgeting
and accounting. Coordination of the training would be the responsibility
of the coffee agronomist who would draw on support from suitably qualified
professionals from Misamfu Research Station, ZCCL and LINTCO. Staff from
ZCCL and the participating banks would also attend the training courses.
5.07      Farmer Group Formation.  Small-scale farmers participating . the
Project would form groups, expected to total 25 (1200 farmers) by the end
of the Project. This would result in efficient use of irrigation, extension
services, transport, input supply, and primary processing and marketing.
The Project financed organization/management specialist and the accountant
would assist these farmers in establishing viable groups. LINTCO would
provide them with extension in irrigation, coffee agronomy and processing.
The groups may be registered under the Societies Act, Cooperative Societies
Act, or Companies Act. Except for cooperative development efforts there is
little experience in the formation of farmer groups in Zambia. But with
the assistance to be provided under the Project, it is expected that viable
groups of coffee growers could be established. It is envisaged that during
the first two years most groups would be formed as part of existing primary
cooperative societies. In the Northern Province there are nine suitable
primary multipurpose cooperatives which have a loan recovery rate of at
least 93%.



- 32 -
5.08      Coffee Research.  The Project's research component would be
Implemented by the Coffee Research Station at Misamfu. The station would
work under the supervision of the National Coordlnator forHorticulture and
report to the Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO). For the prepara-
tion and implementation of a suitable research program, the Project-
financed technical assistance would include the part-time engagement of an
internationally reputed coffee agronomist for two months a year over the
Project period. His work would be complemented by short-term specialized
consultancies, for a total of six man-months over the duration of the
Project, to cover specific subjects. In line with the organizational
structure of the proposed Agricultural Research and Extension Project, the
Project would strengthen coffee research staff through the recruitment
within Zambia of an additional agronomist with knowledge of arabica coffee
and a coffee processing technologist.
5.09      Under the Project, a water, soil and follar analysis service
would be offered to growers to evaluate the suitability of specific areas
for irrigated coffee growing and to develop appropriate fertilizer
recommendations. This service would be jointly supported by the research
and extension staff of the Project. An initial soil analysis would be
carried out before planting at sites selected by farmers. Later, leaf and
soil samples would be taken, after the trees start cropping, to determine
further fertilizer recommendations. The foreign exchange requirements for
carrying out the analysis would be made available under the Project, but
the growers using the service would be expected to pay for analytical work
in local currency at a fee to be mutually agreed between the growers and
the research establishment. In the short-term, the existing facilities at
Mt. Makulu would be used to undertake the analytical work. However, in the
long-term, consideration may have to be given to the establishment of a
fully equipped analytical laboratory at Misamfu Research Station.
5.10      Coffee development in Zambia would benefit from collaborative
research with neighboring countries on common problems of arabica coffee
production such as breeding for disease resistance (e.g., CBD) and drought
tolerance, physiology of the plant-water relationship, and establishment of
joint training programs in coffee production and processing. The
possibility of establishing formal links with neighboring countries to
exchange germ plasm, technical information and visits of professional staff
would also be examined by Government. The Project would support such
collaboration.
5.11      Among the priorities for coffee research under the Project are
the following: (a) improvement of the services for diagnostic soil, leaf
and water analysis for coffee growers; (b) testing of new disease resistant
planting material, concentrating on coffee leaf rust and coffee berry
disease; (c) development of a field program to Improve agronomic and
cultural practices for coffee growing including irrigation system and
pruning cycles; (d) updating the manual for coffee growing in Zambia. In
coordination with the CARO, a critical assessment of these research
priorities would be made by the internationally recruited visiting coffee
specialists (preferably from the region) with a view to making recommenda-
tions to the design, implementation and monitoring of the national coffee
research program.



- 33 -
5.12      Coffee Marketing.  Implementation of the Project's coffee
marketing component would initially be carried out by ZCCL. If the newly
formed Zambia Coffee Growers Association (ZCGA) decides to engage ZCCL as
its marketing agent, the main responsibility for this component would
remain with ZCCL.  On the other hand, ZCGA may in future decide to levelop
its own marketing establishment, and carry out this component with Its own
staff. If the latter is the case, ZCCL staff trained in export marketing
would be considered for employment by ZCGA.
5.13      Zambia Coffee Company.  ZCCL would be responsible for implemert-
ting the Project component which provides assistance to the Company.- This
would Include the procurement of vehicles, equipment, machinery and
materials; preparation of annual work plans and budgets; preparation of
detailed training programs; an the selection and engageiwnt of
consultants. The latter would be carried out in consultation with INDECO.
5.14      The component would be implemented within the framework of a
Corporate Plan to be prepared with technical assistance finaxiced by CFTC
and finalized in consultation with IDA. rte Plan, expected to be completed
in October 1986, would firm up the proposed investment program, and would
concentrate on matters such as: (a) irrigation; (b) electrification; (c)
streamlining the Company's organization; (d) determination of staffing
requirements; (e) reduction of unit costs; (f) establishrwnt of operating
procedures for coffee production and processing; (g) development of
production strategies for crops other than coffee; (h) establishment of
sound financing criteria, with regard to debt/equitv and other financial
ratios; and (i) preparation of recommendations for future management
arrangements and for private sector participation.
c. Status of Project Preparation
5.15      IDA lhas approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the
Project to ensure timely start-up and to establish suitable arrangements
for smooth implementation, including the design of appropriate long-term
lending procedures by participating banks. Two Project start-up facilita-
tors provided under the PPF have already been engagad. Under tbe PPF
technical assistance has been recruited by ZCCL to help the company resolve
its management and operational problems. The team, financed by CFTC for
preparing a Corporate Plan for ZCCL (paras 4.15 and 5.14), has completed
its field work. Technical assistance staff for LINTCO were engaged under
the PPF in October 1986. Project investments and finameing would be
provided for a period of seven years. It is planned that the procurement
of vehicles and equipment for research and extension woildd be completed
during the first year of the Project; bidding documents are being
prepared. Renovation of houses and the laboratory is expected to be
completed during the second year. No designs are necessary. The area
planted to coffee each year under the credlt component would depend on the
time when different farmers begin participation in the Project and on the
period over which farmers will complete the development of their Intended
coffee plantations. Sample sub-projects have been prepared and are being
reviewed by IDA. Farmers would be able to join the Project up to and
including the fourth Project year (see para 4.05). The program for
planting a farmer's coffee area would generally extend over a period of two
to four years. After that, there would be operating expenses similar to



- 34 -
the establishment costs financed under the Project through long-term credit
(e.g., labor, farm inputs, irrigation and maintenance). The implementation
schedule of verious components is shown in Annex II, Chart 1.  Because the
total establishment period for each fawmer would be 6 to 7 years, the
farmers entering the Project in year 4 would benefit from Project funds for
most of the capital investments including processing. However, they would
need to secure the relatively minor finance requirements for labor and
operating costs related to coffee establtshment after Year 7 from sources
other than the Project. An appropriate arrangement would have to be
included in the farmers' sub-project preparation and an assurance would
need to be obtained from the concerned participating bank. A suitable
provision would be included in the subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks (para 4.19). Projoct Implementation would be expected
to be completed by June 30 1994. The Credit Closing Date would be June 30,
1995.
D.  Implementation of Specific Components
Credit and Lending Arrangements
5.16      The Project would provide long-term credit to coffee growers for
the establishment of coffee plantations and processing facilities. The
credit would be made to GRZ on IDA terms and GRZ, through the Bank of
Zambia, would on-lend ftinds for sub-projects to the participating banks
(para 4.04) on terms and conditions to be defined In subsidiary loan
agreements acceptable to JDA (para 4.19). Draft terms and conditions for
on-lending from OPZ to participating banks and from the banks to final
borrowers are in Annex IV, Schedule 1. These were agreed to during
Negotiations and reflected in draft subsidiary loan agreements presented at
Negotiations.  Credit would be available on a first-come, first-served
basis. For Project start-up, funds of about US$3M would be reserved for
each participating bank against which it could make commitments. When one
of the banks has fully or substantially committed its portion, further
allocation of funds in tranches of US$1M would be provided after an
appropriate review by the PMCC (para 5.01) and in agreement with IDA. The
review would include monitoring the use of the first tranche and of
observance of Credit Agreement covenants. In the event that any one of the
banks has not committed the funds available to it uithin a reasonable
period (measured by performance of other banks), the uncommitted balance
may be transferred to other particit,.ting banks.  To assist Government in
ensuring that the participating banks would establish appropriate
procedures for long-term agricultural lending, a short-term consultant has
been engaged under the Project PPF. A draft copy of the procedures have
been received by IDA and are under review. Participating banks would be
responsible for training their own staff in these lending operations. They
would also institute their own monitoring systems and prepare statistics on
overdue accounts.
5.17      Lending terms to final borrowers would include: (a) repayment
period of up to seven years with interest rates consistent with lending
rates prevailing in Zambia for similar investments,7/ (b) a grace period
7/ They would be expected to be positive in real terms and cover the
foreign exchange risks if loans are denominated in Kwacha (see para
4.19).



- 35 -
for repayment of principal of up to five years; (c) should cash flow
projections so require, a grace period on interest of up to flve years
would be considered; and (d) loans to finance up to 75% of a farmer's
investment In plantation establishment, irrigation development, machinery,
vehicles, tools, coffee processing facilities and storage. Investments in
establishment would Include all costs of inputs, labor and overheads
required during the development period up to the and Including the third
year from the time of planting. The contribution of 25% by the farmers
would mainly be in the form of labor (valued at the going wage- rate), and
include also overhead and some operating expenses. The participating banks
would receive an interest margin of up to 4.5%. The banks regard this
spread as sufficiently attractive, because there is relatively little
administrative work involved and because they consider the risks involved,
with the detailed sub-project preparation and appraisal, as small.
5.18      Lending conditions to final borrowers would include submission by
farmers of detailed coffee development proposals (sub-projects) including:
(a) soil, topographical and ground/surface water surveys; (b) farm
mechanization and land development plans; (c) designs for irrigation
system, coffee processing facility and storage; (d) cash flow projections;
and (e) in the case of a smallholders' group, a plan for establishing an
appropriate unit, including the organizational and legal framework as well
as draft statutes under which the group would operate. Sub-project
proposals would need to be technically evaluated by LINTCO's Coffee
Division or, in the case of larger farmers, by technical expertise hired by
the participating banks. Credit would be provided only for sub-projects
which are establishing at least 10 ha of irrigated coffee, are technically
sound, and have an acceptable financial rate of return (FRR) to be
determined by the banks and subject to IDA's review. Agreement on these
points were reached during Negotiations.
5.19      Upon completion of the establishment phase, coffee growers would
need short-term credit for fertilizers; pesticides; herbicides; labor;
operating and maintenance costs of irrigation and of coffee processing and
storage facilities; bags; and transport. Large coffee growers would also
require seasonal credit for overhead expenditures and operating and
maintenance costs of agricultural machinery and equipment. Participating
banks or other credit institutions would make such credit available as part
of their normal operations outside the Project. Seasonal credit to
smallholders would be extended to the concerned group and not to the
individual small grower.
5.20      Sub-project Preparation.  In each case, a sub-project or feasi-
bility study would be prepared by the final borrower, with the help of
LINTCO's technical staff. The larger farmers may also draw on the advice
of the banks or use their own hired consultants when preparing sub-
projects. The proposals would contain (a) a description of the sub-project
in accordance with lending conditions in para 5.18; (b) an organizational
and legal framework relating to the borrowing unit and environment; (c)
management and market plans; and (d) production and financing plans. A
detailed list of contents of sub-project documentation is in Annex IV,
Schedule 2. Three sample sub-projects have been received by IDA and are
being reviewed.



- 36 -
5.21      Each sub-project would be appraised by the participating banks.
Appraisal would include a detailed review of technlcal, organizational,
managerial and financial aspects, and involve field visits. The banks may
also use outside consultants at their own expense to review the technical
aspects of sub-projects. The banks would be responsible for determining
the credit-worthiness of borrowers and their proposals but the criteria for
appraising the sub-project would be established in agreement with IDA.
Draft criteria are in Annex IV, Schedule 3. They were finalized and agreed
upon at Negotiations. IDA would review the first three applications from
each participating bank. If found satisfactory, further applications would
be reviewed only during IDA's regular supervision missions, except for
sub-projects larger than US$0.5M which would always be submitted for IDA
examination. Appropriate provlsions would be made in the subsidiary loan
agreements.
Input Supply, Equipment and Machinery Procurement
5.22      Large coffee growers usually raise their own seedlings and obtain
their input and equipment requirements from dealers or directly from
manufacturers or importers. For small growers, LINTCO supplies seedlings,
and 'Coffee Packs" containing fertilizer, copper fungicide and insecticides
on credit; as well as secateurs for pruning, and knapsack sprayers. While
LINTCO would continue to offer input supply services, efficient operating
groups of small coffee growers may take over the responsibility of
acquiring inputs and equipment directly from dealers/manufacturers and
distributing them among their members. Availability of credit under the
Project would enable farmers to choose between LINTCO and independent
dealers for Input and equipment supply. LINTCO, in line with its current
policy, would recover the cost incurred in offering supply service through
appropriate margins in its sales prices to farmers. An assurance on this
was obtained at Negotiations (para 8.01).
5.23      Availability and quality of coffee seedlings are not always
adequate. Most of the seedlings distributed to smallholders are raised in
nurseries owned by LINTCO. Some smallholders raise their own seedlings,
often with unsatlsfactory results. Under the Project, LINTCO would review
the location of nurseries and, if necessary, increase the number, to ensure
sufficient availability of seedlings within easy reach of Project farmers.
Individual smallholders would no longer be permitted to grow their own
planting material. However, qualified private growers interested in
raising seedlings for sale would be licensed by the Coffee Board (para
5.36). This would not only improve seedling availability but would keep
the price competitive. LINTCO, in consultation with the Misamfu Research
Station, would establish minlmum quality criteria and standard procedures
for raising seedlings. Supervision of both LINTCO and the licensed private
nurseries would be the responsibility of the coffee agronomist financed
under the Project.
Coffee Crop Development and Processing
5.24      The Project program for developing 3,250 hectares of irrigated
coffee and coffee processing facilities would be implemented by farmers
with the support of LINTCO's Coffee Development Division. LINTCO, in
consultation with participating banks, would draft annual development plans
for adoption by PMCC (para 5.01). The plans would be prepared on the basis
of farmers' interest and capabilities in coffee development, taking into



- 37 -
consideration: (a) progress In organizing groups of smallholder coffee
growers; (b) seedling availability; (c) limitations in extension support;
(d) constraints in preparing and evaluating sub-projects for individual
coffee growers or groups of farmers; and (e) the need for effective
supervision of sub-project implementation.
5.25      Development of a coffee area by a Project farmer would initially
require bush clearing and land preparation. Smallholders and small
emergent farmers would do this normally using family labor, while large
emergent and commercial farmers would hire equipment for this initial
coffee development phase. After land preparation, coffee seedlings would
be planted at 1.25 meters distance between trees and 2.50 meters between
rows, providing for a tree population of 3,200 per hectare. Development
would be carried out in accordance with recommended practices including
initial shading of the seedlings, mulching, weeding, pruning, application
of adequate quantities of fertilizer, and adherence to an appropriate
spraying program for herbicides, insecticides and fungicides. The Project
would finance, through credit, the cost of hired labor, seedlings and other
inputs, and the hiring of equipment, until the plantation is established
and the trees start bearing three years after planting.
5.26      The Project would finance the development of irrigation facili-
ties for the coffee farms. Most of the water for irrigation will be tapped
by gravity from existing perennial streams. Smallholders and small
emergent farmers would generally use flood irrigation systems, delivering
water from a dam or stream to the field by primary and secondary canals.
Most of the large emergent farmers and some commercial farmers would also
rely on flood irrigation. Depending on the soil conditions, they may line
the main furrows with concrete, plastic pipes or clay to prevent water
seepage. Where water is scarce or expensive pumping is required from
wells, installation of an overhead sprinkler or trickle/microjet irrigation
system would be considered as an alternative to flood irrigation. The type
and lay-out of the system would be designed to fit the field topography,
plantation size and the volume of water and pressure required. Compared to
flood irrigation, the sprinkler system uses water more economically but
requires higher capital and recurrent expenses. Trickle/microjet irriga-
tion systems are more efficient in water use than sprinkler irrigation.
These forms of irrigation allow immediate percolation of water, and because
of the high degree of control over the amount of water discharged at each
tree, they can also be used for fertilizer application. Installation,
however, requires hlgher capital investment that sprinklers, but operating
costs would be lower. For economical operation, a high level of super-
vision would be required. Irrigation systems suitable to specific growing
conditions would be designed with the assistance of the LINTCO irrigation
engineer.
5.27      Coffee growers would take into account research results and
coffee growing experience under Zambian conditions, which are generally in
line with standard husbandry practices in East and Southern Africa.
LINTCO's coffee extension staff, in collaboration with the Coffee Research
Unit, would be responsible for preparing appropriate recommendations on
coffee production to all growers and for modifying such recommendations as
new research information emerges. These responsibilities would be carried
out under the direction of the coffee agronomist engaged by LINTC0.
5.28      New planting of coffee would be with SL28, SL34 or K7 cultivars
currently available in Zambia or with the new CBD resistant Ruiru II



- 38 -
hybrid, when available. Commercial and large emergent farmers would
generally plant potted seedlings, while smallholders/small emergent farmers
would uso bare root seedlings, as the latter are easier to transport.
Coffee would be mulched using grass or maize stover. For bush management,
a capped multi-stem pruning system with a 5-6 year cycle would normally be
employed. Project farmers should follow recommended fertilizer weeding,
pest and disease control practices. Commercial farmers would generally
carry these out by mechanical means, while smallholders and emergent
farmers would use manual labor.
5.29      Coffee processing.  To produce high quality clean coffee,
cherries would be pulped and the resulting parchment coffee washed and
dried. This first stage of processing (wet processing) would be carried
out at pulperies/washing stations owned and operated by individual or
groups of farmers. To ensure that the inherent coffee quality is
maintained during processing, care would be taken in the design and
implementation of sound standards for coffee processing, drying and
storage. In the case of central washing stations operated by groups of
small growers, it would be essential that effective procedures be estab-
lished by LINTCO staff for selecting coffee cherries of acceptable ripeness
and for prompt payment for the cherries delivered by the various group
members. The coffee processing specialist, the organization/management
specialist and the accountant would be responsible for the design of
appropriate standards, systems and procedures. Together with LINTCO's
coffee extension officers, they would provide training to processing staff,
and guide the implementation of recommended standards. They would prepare
a program for regular supervision visits to the processing facilities to
review operations. The design and capacity of processing facilities,
stores and pollution control units would vary depending on the requirements
of the location and individual category of farmers. Designs would be
simple and cost-effective.
5.30      Experience in Kenya and elsewhere has shown that coffee produced
by small growers and processed in central pulping/washing stations is
generally of high quality. This is largely due to the discipline imposed
on farmers by group management which, for instance, will insist that
farmers deliver only coffee cherries having the correct degree of ripeness
and whose appearance is free of disease and other defects. Central
pulping/washing stations would also enable the establishment of controls
necessary to maintain the inherent quality of the crop at the post-harvest
stage, and would keep the marketing costs down. The stations, which would
be owned and operated by the groups of small coffee growers, would
furthermore provide the focal point for establishing effective coffee
growers' organizations and for ensuring that the growers are provided
efficiently and economically with required services such as credit, input
supply and extension. The Project would seek to concentrate small coffee
growers as much as possible around central pulping/washing stations.
5.31      Dry processing involves hulling (milling) of the dry parchment
followed by grading, sorting and polishing the green coffee to a standard
suitable for export. It is generally carried out in a central milling
works with a relatively large throughput - generally in excess of 1,000
tons per year. The larger throughput justifies the more expensive and
sophisticated equipment employed and, if used correctly, the green coffee
prepared for export is usually of a consistent quality. ZCCL owns and-.
operates a modern coffee milling complex at Kateshi Estate near Kasama in



- 39 -
Northern Province. Up to now, this plant has done the dry processing and
export preparation for all of Zambia's coffee crop. The throughput
capacity of this mill is about 2,000-3,000 tons per year which would be
adequate to handle all of Zambia's crop for the next 6-7 years.
5.32      Marketing.  The existing marketing system supports an annual
coffee production of about 400 tons. As a result of Project and other
coffee production activities, annual coffee production is expected to reach
about 6,400 tons by 1995. The future marketing system would need the
capacity to handle such increased volume. It would also need to consider
the fact that ZCCL's relative importance as a coffee producer would
diminish,while coffee production by the private sector would be expected to
reach about 85% of the country's total at the time of the Project's full
development. The future system would ensure that coffee marketing will
remain efficient and equitable to all producers, and that it will provide
adequate incentives for the production of high quality coffee.
5.33      Consistent with Government policy, coffee growers would be free
to sell their coffee to processors and tiaders of their choice. Large
producers, including groups of smallholders with central processing
facilities, would be most likely to deliver their coffee directly to the
export marketing agency (para 4.11) or would sell to the domestic
roasters. With the expected increase in coffee production, it is
anticipated that a trader system would develop. Traders would purchase
parchment coffee from producers, including small growers, and resell it to
the export marketing agency or to other firms for domestic consumption.
LINTCO would also continue to offer marketing services to smallholder
groups, and would charge appropriate marketing fees to recover its buying
and transportation costs. An assurance to this effect was obtained at
Negotiations (para 8.01). Domestic roasters would buy coffee from coffee
growers, traders and the export marketing agency. Roasters would set their
own purchasing prices for parchment and for sun-dried and clean coffee, as
well as their sales prices for ground coffee and roasted beans.
5.34      Zambia, prior to the suspension of quotas, was in the group known
as 'members exempt from basic quotas'. These are countries that generally
export less than 24,000 tons of coffee to quota markets. A quota of more
than 2,400 tons per annum has been more difficult to achieve, but Zambia is
believed to have the support in the ICO from the U.S. and from EEC and
Scandinavian countries. Also, because the coffee is of good quality, the
roasting industry,especially in Europe, would most likely be supportive of
a Zambian quota in excess of 2,400 tons. Overall, if quotas are re-
established, it would seem that Zambia could achieve a quota of up to about
6,000 tons by the mid-1990s, provided that such a quota would be supported
by sufficient production. In the event that the international coffee
market would become free, without an ICA, Zambia's position as a quality
producer at competitive costs would still remain good. It would be
unrealistic to make more detailed forecasts of the prospect. for marketing
of Zambian coffee six to seven years hence under present conditions of
uncertainty. However, regardless of what may happen, the marketing
expertise now being developed within the marketing division of ZCCL and
specific sales contacts made, will be beneficial for future marketing
efforts of substantially larger quantities of coffee.
5.35      ZCCL's current position as sole exporter of Zambian coffee
reflects its strength as the major coffee producer. In future it would be



- 40 -
undesirable to have the export marketing controlled by any one major
producer, be that in the public or the private sector. In order to serve
the Interests of all parties involved with coffee development, the Zambia
Coffee Growers Association (ZOGA) has been established (para 5.37). The
ZCGA is owned and managed by the coffee growers as a self-supporting
organization. It is proposed that eventually the ZOGA would be responsible
for all coffee exports from Zambia.. The assocIation would operate within
the Government's policy framework for coffee and abide by the rules and
regulations set out by the coffee board. It would discharge its responsi-
bilities by usings its own staff or by engaging agencies such as ZCCL for
this purpose. In addition to marketing, ZCGA would process and prepare
coffee for export shipments. Since dry processing/milling facilities
constructed by ZCCL are more than adequate to meet Zambia's needs in the
medium term, ZOGA would enter into an agreement with ZCCL to use its
milling facilities. ZCGA would classify coffee from various suppliers
using a classiflcation system to be determined in agreement with the Coffee
Board. In the absence of individual direct sales made by its members, ZCGA
would allocate coffee to various markets in accordance with the coffee
quality and specific market demand. It would operate a centralized pooling
system for the receipts from coffee sales, and would distribute sales
proceeds and foreign exchange entitlements to its members. The association
would be the main feedback mechanism between consumers and producers with
respect to coffee quality and its improvements.  ZOGA would act as the
export marketing agent on behalf of its members, just as ZCCL has been
doing.  In this capacity it would administer the distribution of the 50%
foreign exchange retention of export proceeds to the individual grower.
Foreign exchange entitlements accruing to LINTCO would be sold at the
highest possible price, and proceeds would be used either to reduce
LINTCO's overhead charges, or to be passed on to the smallholders as a
final settlement of coffee purchases.
Regulatory Aspects
5.36      A Coffee Board would be established to assist Government in
coffee policy formulation and to determine regulations for Zambia's coffee
industry. The board would be established under the proposed Coffee Act, a
copy of which was made available to IDA for review before finalization (see
para 2.18). As assurance was sought at Negotiations that the Board would
be set up by December 31, 1987 with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to IDA. Enforcement of regulations promulgated by the board
would be delegated to other institutions, such as the ZCGA, LINTCO, Customs
Office, and the Department of Natural Resources. The board would be
established under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MAWD and
would incorporate representatives from all the concerned organizations,
including: ZCGA, ZCCL, LINTCO, the Ministry of Finance, smallholder coffee
growers, large growers, and the private domestic coffee trade. The
regulations to be established by the Board-as decreed by the draft Coffee
Act--would concern such matters as pollution control, licensing of
nurseries, the importation of coffee, coffee seed and seedlings, coffee
varieties to be grown in Zambia, registration of coffee farmers and
traders, and, if necessary, the licensing of coffee growers and the
exportation of coffee.
5.37      The Zambia Coffee Growers Association Ltd. has being established
as a non-profit organizatlon to promote coffee growing and marketing and to
help ensure maintenance of high quality coffee standards. The management



- 41 -
responsibility of ZCGA rests with a Board of Directors, elected by the
members. Large coffee growers select their representatives directly, but
small growers are be represented by LINTCO until their groups are producing
coffee on more than 10 ha; at this point they would, as groups, qualify for
direct memberships in the Association. Articles of the Association have
been prepared and are generally satisfactory to IDA.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.38      Overall monitoring of the Project would be the responsibility of
the PMCC (para 5.02). Each implementing agency, i.e., the participating
banks, LINTCO, Misamfu Research Station, ZOGA and ZCCL, would monitor the
progress of the part of the Project for which they are responsible. They
would report semi-annually to PMCC, providing data on project activities,
on completion of physical and institutional targets and on circumstances or
problems that are critical to the effective implementation of the Project.
The PMCC secretariat would prepare annually a progress summary and make
recommendations for action by PMCC; copies of individual monitoring reports
would be reviewed by IDA and MAWD.
5.39      Evaluation would be carried out by the Planning Division of MAWD
assisted by the Project Preparation, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit of NCDP
at the end of Year 3 of the Project implementation and after completion of
the Project. The three year evaluation report would form the basis of a
aid-term Project implementation review. Evaluation would concentrate on:
(a) coffee area developed; (b) yields achieved by age of trees and
different farmer categories; (c) performance on credit recoveries; (d)
quality of coffee using different processing facilities; (e) the effective-
ness of recommended cultivation practices and processing procedures; (f)
the efficiency of the research and extension components; (g) the effective-
ness of marketing, procurement and Input supply arrangements; (h) the
operation of smallholder/small emergent farmer groups; and (i) the
performance of the Project consultants. The NCDP would prepare a Project
Completion Report within six months after completion of the Project. An
assurance to this effect was obtained from GRZ at Negotiations.
VI.  PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Coffee Yields
6.01      Coffee yields would fluctuate during each pruning cycle, and
would vary between farmers in accordance with the standard of management,
the level of inputs, the effectiveness of irrigation facilities, and tree
density. The level of management and the amount of inputs applied is
generally higher in the case of commercial farmers and large emergent
farmers than among small growers. Based on experience from existing coffee
plantings, it has been estimated that average annual yields per hectare
would range between about 950 kgs and 1,700 kgs of clean coffee for
irrigated smallholder plots and commercial plantations respectively (Annex
III, Table 9).
6.02      For estimating yields, it has been assumed that commercial
farmers would install a sprinkler or a trickle/microjet irrigation system,
as is presently the practice. During the first seven-year pruning cycle,
yields are expected to peak at 2,000 kg/ha in years 6 and 7 after planting,



- 42 -
giving an average yield of 1,500 kg/ha over the first 5 cropping years
(excluding establishment). During the second and subsequent 5-year pruning
cycles, yields are estimated to average 1,700 kg/ha. This production level
would be in line with those already achieved by commercial farmers in
Zambia, but would be lower than average yields of about 2,300 kg/ha
obtained from SL34 plots on Misamfu Research Station. The estimated yield
levels for Zambian farmers would also be below those on well-managed
irrigated Kenyan estates, which are well above 2,000 kg/ha.
6.03      Lar.e emergent farmers would generally have furrow irrigation
and, on the whole, somewhat lower standards of crop husbandry and
management than commercial farmers. Accordingly, yields achieved by them
would also be lower. It is estimated that a large emergent farmer would
produce on average about 1,050 kg/ha/annum over the first 5 years after
cropping (excluding establishment). The average for the second and
subsequent (five-year) pruning cycles would be about 1,200 kg/ha.
Smallholders and small emergent farmers, like the large emergent farmers,
would use a furrow irrigation system but with a lower level of inputs.
Levels of crop husbandry would also be generally lower. Yields are
expected to average about 850 kg/ha during the first 5 cropping years and
950 kg/ha for the second and subsequent (five year) cycles. By comparison,
smallholder plots of unirrigated coffee, even when mulched, suffer from
water stress, wilting and dieback.  Average yield levels under reasonable
management do not reach more than about 380 kg/ha.
B. Financial Analysis
6.04      Financial analyses of investments in coffee plantations and
processing facilities have been carried out on the basis of five models for
commercial, emergent and smallholder farmers (Annex III, Table 11-16). In
the case of commercial farmers, two models have been prepared: (a) one for
a farmer establishing 80 ha of coffee, using a 3 or 4 disc pulping/washing
station, and installing a trickle/micro-jet irrigation system; and (b) the
other for a farmer with 40 ha of coffee, a 2-disc processing facility and
sprinkler irrigation. The model for large emergent farmers assumes that a
farmer would establish 15 ha of coffee, set up a hand operated pulping/
washing facility, and irrigate the coffee using a flood irrigation system.
Two models have been established for smallholders/small emergent farmers.
Both models are based on a 0.5 ha coffee area and flood irrigation, but one
of them assumes that the farmer pulps, washes and dries the coffee himself,
while the other is based on processing being carried out at a central
pulping station.  Family labor used by sm allholders/small emergent farmers
in coffee establishment and cultivation has been valued at the prevailing
financial wage rate for unskilled labor.
C. Distributional Impact
6.05      At full development, net annual revenues earned by farmers from
3,250 ha of coffee developed under the Project are estimated to average
K70.6M, assuming that an International Coffee Agreement would be in
effect. Without such agreement, total annual net revenues would average
about K61.9M. When the coffee is in full productit , one hectare of coffee
would be expected to yield annual net revenues of auout K26,500 and K25,600
for commercial farmers with coffee plantations of 80 hectares and 40
hectares respectively. Net annual revenues per hectare of coffee expected
to be earned by a large emergent farmer are K17,500. For the 1,100



- 43 -
smallholders or small emergent farmers, most of whom would be subsistence
farmers earning less than K2,000 per year, it is estimated that at full
development, 0.5 hectare of coffee would make a net contribution to the
annual family income of about K7,030 if the coffee is processed by the
farmer, or K7,830 if processing is carried out at a central pulping
facility. At full development, total contribution of smallholder coffee
would be about 420 tons or about 10% of the total, the remainder being
produced by the emergent and commercial farmers.
6.06      For smallholders/small emergent farmers, estimates have been
prepared for returns on family labor earned from coffee. At full develop-
ment, the average return per man-day from 0.5 ha of coffee is estimated at
(a) K43.7 for Project coffee processed centrally and (b) K39.7 for Project
coffee processed by the Project farmers themselves. These returns compare
favorably with the present (up-dated to July 31, 1986) market wage rate for
unskilled labor of K4.50.
D. Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rates of Return
6.07      As detailed in the cash flow projections for the five models,
financial benefits accruing to farmers growing irrigated coffee would be
adequate for servicing the debts under the proposed lending terms and
conditions (paras 5.17-5.18). During the initial years of coffee
development, farmers' cash flows would be negative as farmers would be
expected during the development phase to contribute funds from their own
resources (labor in the case of smallholders/small emergent farmers). In
the case of smallholders plus emergent farmers, with coffee planting phased
over 3 years, as well as commercial farmers, with planting phased over 4
years, net cash flows would turn positive in the fifth Project year.
Farmers' resources and, in the case of large emergent and commercial
farmers, income from other crops would be generally adequate to meet equity
funding and debt service requirements during the initial Project years.
Participating banks would ensure during sub-project evaluation that only
farmers who could meet these requirements would receive Project loans.
6.08      Financial Rates of Return (FRR) calculated on investments of the
five models indicate that returns would be satisfactory for all coffee
farmers growing irrigated coffee (Annex III, Tables 11-16). FRR are
estimated to range in real terms from 26% for commercial farmers to 32% for
large emergent farmers. PRR for smallholder growers are estimated at 30%.
Rates of return on farmers' equity contribution for the different
categories of farmers are estimated at between 41% and 53%. FRR would
be lower but remain satisfactory if the International Coffee Agreement
(ICA) were to be discontinued and coffee prices would fall as a result.
FRR calculated on the basis of price projections without ICA indicate that
the rates in real terms would range from 23% (commercial farmer with 40 ha
of coffee) to 29% (large emergent farmer with 15 ha of coffee).
6.09      Switching values have been calculated to determine the
sensitivity of PRR to major changes in cost and benefit streams. The
following percentage changes in costs, yields or coffee prices would have
to occur before FRR would be reduced to 10% in real terms, which would
still be satisfactory:



- 44 -
Z Increase (Decrease) Required to Reduce MR to 10l
Sutallholders
Cost or Benefit  Commercial Farmers  Large Emergent   Central         Own
Component      80 ha       40 ha      Farmers       Processing  Processing
Investment Costs   165         157         277            232          242
Operating Costs    200         171         203            207           196
Total Costs:      89          82         117            109 
Coffee Yields       (52)       (50)        (60)           (58)          (58)
Coffee Prices       (46)       (44)         (52)          (51)          (50)
The analysis shows that PRR is not very sensitive to changes in investment
and operating costs. Overruns in total costs by more than 802 would be
required to reduce PMR to 102. Such overruns are highly unlikely.
Expenditures required for plantation establishment and coffee cultivation
and processing and irrigation facilities have been estimated on the basis
of detailed studies, and of experience in Zambia and neighbouring
countries. Also, 10% physical contingencies have already been added to all
machinery, equipment and facilities required by coffee farmers. Yield
reductions of 50% or more from appraisal estimates, which would cause FRR
to drop to 10%, are similarly unlikely. Yield estimates are based on
realistic assumptions and are in line with those already achieved by
Zambian coffee growers (para 6.01). A decline in projected coffee prices
of the magnitude required to reduce FRR to unsatisfactory levels (more than
43%) would also be improbable. Even without an International Coffee
Agreement, prices for high quality coffee of are expected to be only about
10% to 15% lower than they would be with such an agreement. A combination
of a 20% yield reduction, due to an outbreak of disease (such as CBD), and
an increase of 5% in operating costs for Increased crop spraying would
still leave a satisfactory PRR well above 102. Any foreseeable adverse
change in cost and benefit streams would thus not jeopardize the financial
viability of Project farmers' investments.
E. Financial Analysis - ZCCL
6.10      The financial analysis prepared for ZCCL (Annex III, Tables
16-20) indicates that with the investments and management assistance
provided under the Project, the Company would be financially viable.
Income would turn positive In FY 91, and operating margins, initially
negative, would increase to exceed 30% of operating revenue starting in PY
94.   Average annual losses of K2.7 million during the four year period
from FY 87 to FY 90 would be offset by after tax profits averaging about
14.6 million per year over the subsequent 20 years. During these years,
profits after taxes would average about 20% of equity. The projected
income statements for ZCCL over a 25 year period are in Annex III, Table
17.  For the period FY 86 to FY 93 they are summarized below:



- 45 -
Summary of Projected Income Statements
(in constant 1986 K million)
FY86 1I  FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Operating
Revenue (O/R)     4.4       9.0    8.7    9.2   10.5   14.0   15.6   16.6
Operating
Income (OI)       0.1      (0.3)  (2.0)  (1.6)   0.2    2.7    3.9    4.7
Net Income (NI)    0.5      (1.9)  (3.8)  (3.5)  (1.8)   0.9    2.7    4.0
OI/OR (%)           2       neg.   neg.   neg.    2       19     25     28
NI/Average
Equity (%)         6       neg.   neg.   neg.   neg.    6       15     19
1/  ZCCL estimate.  Positive income in 1985/86 is due to Inventory profits
following the devaluation of the Kwacha In 1985.
6.11      ZCCL's cash flow analysis for the period through FY 2011 is
detailed in Annex III, Table 17. Projected statements of sources and
application of funds for eight years commencing with FY 86 are summarized
below:
Summary Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
(in constant 1986 K million)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Internal Sources      0.9    1.7    1.0    1.7    3.6    6.72  -n52  'T.-5
Borrowings            8.7    2.2    5.6    3.3    1.4       -      -      -
Equity Contributions 1.1    2.0    7.0    4.0    0.5       -       -      -
Total Sources        10.7    5.9   13.6    9.0    5.5    6.2    7.3    8.0
Capital
Expenditures        10.0    1.5   11.4    5.8    2.3    1.5    1.3    0.5
Working Capital
Changes              0.6    1.2     -       -      -       1.7   2.3    4.3
Debt Service          0.1    3.2    2.2    3.2    3.2    3.0    3.7    3.2
Total Applications  10.7    5.9   13.6    9.0    5.5    6.2    7.3    8.0
Debt Service
Coverage             9.0    0.5    0.5    0.5    1.1    2.1    2.0    2.5
The Company's long-term funding requirements during the years FY 87 to FY
90 are estimated at K26.0M. During these years, ZCCL would generate enough
funds from its operations to meet operational cash needs, but internally
generated funds would not be sufficient to cover the amount of debt service
requirements during the initial Project years. From FY 90 onwards, ZCCL's
cash generation could Improve, and the Company's debt service coverage
should reach satisfactory levels. To establish and maintain an appropriate
financing structure of ZCCL throughout the period of Project Implementation
starting from PY 87, it has been estimated that K13.5M of additional equity
would be required. This would ensure that long term debt would not exceed
60% of capitaliza-tion. Higher leverage would appear to be imprudent until
the Company produces profits consistently. Projected balance sheets for
the period through FY 11 are in Annex III, Table 18. The years FY 86 to FY
93, are summarized below:



- 46 -
Summary of Projected Balance Sheets
(in constant 1986 K million)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Net Current Assets  (0.8)   0.-5   0.5    0.5    0.    T2.2    4.5    8.8
Land, Buildings,
Plant and
Machinery           17.3   16.5   24.7   27.2   25.9   24.2   22.6   20.3
Plantation Develop.  5.5    6.3    7.0    7.6    8.2    8.3    8.3    8.3
Pre-Production Exp.  3.6    3.1    2.6    2.1    1.7    1.2    0.7    0.2
Total                25.6   26.4   34.8   37.4   36.3   35.9   36.1   37.6
Equity               12.6   12.7   15.9   16.5   15.2   16.1   18.8   22.8
Long-Term Loans      13.0   13.7   18.9   20.9   21.1   19.8   17.3   14.8
Total                25eS   26.4   34.8   37.4   36.3   35.9   36.1   37.6
Debt:Equity Ratio  1:0.97 1:0.93 1:0.84 1:0.79 1:0.72 1:0.81 1:1.09 1:1.54
Cash flow projections and ZCCL's financing plan including equity contribu-
tions would be reestimated during the preparation of the ZCCL Corporate
Plan (para 4.15).
6.12      The financial analysis shows that at a 9% discount rate the Net
Present Value (NPV) of the projected cost and benefit streams would be
almost identical with ZCCL's existing equity of K12.7M, while at a discount
factor of 10%, it would be K2.4M lower.  It would thus seem that the
Company's book equity is reasonably in line with its value calculated on
the basis of discounted future cash flows, and that the additional
investments and financing proposed would allow ZCCI, to perform in a
financially satisfactory manner.
6.13      Financial rates of return (FRR) calculated on incremental costs
and benefits with the Project (Annex III, Tables 19 and 20) indicate that
they would be satisfactory. FRR for the ZCCL component, before taxes and
financing, is estimated at 21%. To assess the sensitivity of FRR to major
changes in cost and benefit streams, the following switching values have
been calculated indicating the magnitudes of change required to render the
FRR unsatisfactory:
% Increase (Reduction) Required
Cost/Benefit Component             to Reduce FRR to Less than 10%
Yield per ha                                     (60)
Coffee Price                                     (43)
Incremental Capital Costs                        106
Incremental Operating Costs                      143
Incremental Total Costs                           65
Increases in costs or reduction in benefits of the magnitude indicated
above are unlikely. Regarding costs, 10% contingencies have already been
added to all cost components. As to yields, it would be necessary to bring
coffee production only up to the yield level which is already being
achieved in coffee blocks with reasonably effective irrigation, to ensure
financial viability of the investment financed under this component.



- 47 -
F. Project Budgetary Implications
6.14      The Project would place a small financial burden oai the Govern-
ment.  Of the total Project cost, GRZ's contribution is e6tiated at
US$1.2M (4%), which would go to LINTCO for strengthenintg extension, and to
research. The average annual Incremental budgetary allocation for the
Project would amount to about US$O.1M. It would be reviewed during Project
implementation whether ZCGA could eventually (6 to 7 years hence) take over
the responsibilities for coffee research and extension (para 4.10).
Project beneficiaries are expected to pay prices which wo-ild reflect the
full cost of all their input requirements, and of the marketing and
processing of their coffee. The credit component, constituting most of the
Project cost (60%), would be self-financing.
6.15      The Project would increase revenue to GRZ as farmers would after
plantation establishment earn Income which would be taxed (35% in the case
of ZCCL, 15% for farmers). Also, it is likely that there would be a marked
increase in spending by Project beneficiaries on consumer goods, many of
which are taxed. As a result, revenues from Indirect taxation would
increase, although quantification of this Is not possible.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Justification
7.01      Agriculture has the potential of becoming the leading growth
sector in the Zambian economy. While in the me.diui term it may not replace
copper as a principal revenue earner, it can assist in reducing food
imports, provide raw materials and contribute to exports. This view has
been reflected during the past few years in GRZ strategtes and policies
focussed on diversifying the economy (para 1.18). The Project would
provide an additional source of foreign exchange to offset some of the lost
income from mining; raise rural incomes and employmert opportunities; ard
increase the country's expertise in the production and marketing of
agricultural commodities.
B. Benefits
7.02      The major quantifiable economic benefit of the Project would be
Incremental production of coffee, and improved efficiencies in coffee
extension, coffee research and coffee marketing arrangements. The Project
would increase annual coffee production in Zambia by 4,700 tons of clean
coffee, thus increasing the countrv's gross potential foreign exchange
earnings by about US$ 12M equivalent annually. At full development, the
Project is further expected to offer permanent employment opportunitiea for
about 300 skilled and about 7000 unskilled laborers of whom about one third
would be women employed in field and processing activities.
7.03      In addition to quantifiable benefits, some unquantifiable
benefits would accrue as a result of Projczt implementation. The Project
would stimulate private and competitive marketing arrangements for coffee
through the Introduction of a coffee policy which would, among other
things, set up ZCGA to ensure efficient marketing arrangements.  The
successful implementation of long-term londing procedures end marketirg
channels for coffee could stimulate similar arrangements for other
commodities in Zambia.



- 48 -
C. Econouic Rate of Return (ERR)
7.04      The ERR has beeu calculated for the Project's credit,
research,extension and marketing components over a 30 year period, on the
basis of the benefit and cost streams in Annex III, Table 21. The costs
that have been taken Into account in the economic analysis include all the
incremental on-farm investments, replacements, and operating costs, as well
as other capital, replacement, and recurrent costs of the extension and
administration incurred by LINTCO. Only 50Z of the cost of the research
component was included since the expenditures would have benefits beyond
those accruing to this Project. Costs relating to the marketing and
processing of coffee, and participating banks' administrative costs have
been included in the economic costs. Since coffee is tradeable and as
almost all of the incremental production would be exported, the economic
value has been estimated on the basis of the economic parity price (ICO
Indicator Price) projected by the Bank's CommodAty Studies and Projection
Division for 1995. Also considered are price dIfferentials earned, so far
by Zambian coffee as well as the likely quality differentials between
coffee produced by the various farmer groups. A separate rate of return
has been calculated on the assumption that the ICO might be dissolved,
which would imply that coffee prices would be expected to fall. Annex III,
Table 10 indicates the price projections for Zambian coffee used In the
analyses and the basic assumptions underlying these estimates.
7.05      The following assutmptions are made with regard to Incremental
benefit and cost allocationst (a) costs include physical contingencies,
where appropriate; are net of identifiable taxes; and are in July 1986
constant prices; (b) the shadow price of foreign exchange was assumed to
equal the nominal price, as the official exchange rate, carried out through
the auction system, is considered to reflect its appropriate value; (c) the
shadow wages of unskilled labor and incremental on-farm labor have been
priced at market rates, reflecting their scarcity values; and (d) the
opportunity cost of land is assumed to be negligible.
7.06      On the basis of the above assumptions, the ERR of the Project's
credit, research, extension and marketing components is estimated at 242,
assumving that the International Coffee Agreement would continue (benefit
and costs streams are in Annex III, Tables 21 to 23). Should the ICO be
dissolved, the ERR would fall to 212. The value used in the benefit
analysis has been based on pure coffee production stands. In practice,
however, most of the growers would inter-crop during the first two years,
thus increasing the benefits and the ERR.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
7.07      The weighted average parity prices used in valuation of
production output have been adjusted to reflect the actual and expected
situations both in and outside Zambia. Similarly, the average yields
estimated in this Project are In line with those presently achieved by
Zambian farmers and are well below the average achieved at the Misamfu
Research Station (para 6.02). However, even with a 20% decrease In yields,
the ERR would drop only from 242 to 182.
7.08      Zambia's economy is currently undergoing major economic
readjustments which could increase Project costs, particularly on-farm



- 49 -
investments costs. However, the Project would not be sensitive to higher
costs. An increase of 20% in total Project costs would decrease the ERR
from 24X to 192. With a combination of a 20% decrease in yields and a 5%
incremental Increase in on-farm costs, which could result from disease
attack (particularly CBD para 2.04), the ERR would fall to 19%. It was
assumed that planting would start in the second year after the first
on-farm investment begins. Thus, the first production yield would not be
realized until the fourth year of the Project (third year after planting),
as indicated in para 6.01. A further delay of one-year In realization of
benefits with costs maintained as projected, would reduce the ERR by 5% -
from 24% to 19%.
E. Economic Rate of Return - ZCCL Component
7.09      ERR for the ZCCL project component, calculated on the basis of
incremental economic costs and benefits with the Project, is estimated at
23% (Annex III, Table 23). The component is not very sensitive to adverse
changes in cost and benefit streams. If one assumes an opportunity cost of
capital of 10%, incremental costs would have to increase by the following
percentages to render ERR for this component unsatisfactory: (a) incremen-
tal capital costs - 117%; (b) incremental operating costs - 144%; (c) total
incremental costs - 65%. Incremental economic benefits would have to
decrease by 40% for the component to become uneconomical. As cost
estimates already include 10% contingencies, and because coffee prices even
without an ICA would not be expected to be significantly lower than assumed
In the calculation (see Annex III, Table 10), the component would appear to
have a satisfactory ERR under any likely change in economic costs and/or
benefits (see also para 6.12).
F. Uncertainties and Risks
7.10      Zambia's advantage in competing  with other coffee producing
countries rests with its potential to produce high quality coffee. The
main risk of the Project, therefore, lies in Zambia's lack of significant
experience and expertise in irrigated coffee growing and processing
technology. These difficulties have been recognized in the Project
design. Provisions have been made to improve coffee extension and
research services, as well as to include technical assistance in coffee
agronomy, processing, research, irrigation and marketing.
7.11      Another risk to Project success would emanate from an inefficient
marketing system, which would reduce producers' incentives. To minimize
this risk, the Government's policy proposals, supported in the Project
(para 2.18), include the establishment of a producer-controlled coffee
marketing organization which would maintain marketing costs at a reasonable
level. An additional risk to the Project would arise if the Government
does not implement this policy of having the private sector perform the
processing and marketing functions.
7,12      The effective grouping of small coffee growers may be difficult
to accomplish and thus may present a risk for the successful implementation
of the Project's smallholder coffee development component. This difficulty
has been recognized in the Project design through establishment of groups
of coffee growers in viable cooperatives and through technical assistance
to enable LINTCO to assist in effective group formation and operation (para
5.07).



- 50 -
7.13      There is also a risk that farmers and commercial banks would be
unwilling to participate in the scheme. This could arise, on the one
hand,from the farmers' unwillingness to borrow and, on the other, from the
commercial banks' fear of poor repayments. However, during appraisal, it
was determined that a sufficient number of both farmers and commercial
banks would be ready to participate. The Project would provide, for the
first time, long-term agricultural loans to farmers. Moreover, participa-
ting farmers would be allowed to retain 50% of their export proceeds In
foreign exchange, increasing their incentives to join the Project. To
establish good sub-loan repayments, each sub-project's viability would be
scrutinized by the banks and only viable proposals would be funded. In
addition, a grace period of up to five years would place the farmers in a
relatively good position to start loan repayment.
VIII* ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At Negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following that:
(i) a draft Coffee Act to be submitted to IDA for comments by
June 30, 1987 (para 2.18);
(ii) interest rates to be set at level satisfactory to IDA (para
4.19);
(iii) project farmers to be allowed to retain from their foreign
exchange earnings amounts which would be adequate to
service loans taken out under the Project (para 4.19);
(iv) separate project accounts to be maintained, and audited by
auditors acceptable to IDA; and audited accounts to be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year (para 4.27);
(v) LINTCO to provide its input supply and marketing services
on the basis of full cost recovery (paras 5.22 and 5.33);
(vi) NCDP to submit a Project Completion Report within 6 months
after project completion (para 5.39);
(vii) a Coffee Board would be established by December 31, 1987
with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA
(para 5.36);
(viii) Government to make adequate budgetary provisions for
coffee research and extension and release required funds
through advance deposits at the beginning of each quarters
to two Project Advance Accounts established for this
purpose (paras 4.19 and 4.26); and
(ix) three Special Accounts to be operated an terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.26).



- 51 
8.02      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(i)   against the ZCCL Project component:
- preparation of plans satisfactory to IDA for (a) estate
irrigation and (b) factory electrification (para 4.14);
- submission of a Corporate Plan acceptable to IDA and
adoption of such plan by ZCCL and its parent INDECO
(para 4.15);
- execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory
to IDA, between GRZ and ZCCL (para 4.19);
- selection of suitable equity partners and completion of
equity and loan financing agreements satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.22).
(ii)   against the marketing component:
- execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory
to IDA, between GRZ and ZCCL, or between GRZ and ZOGA
(para 4.19).
8.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit would be:
(i)  execution of subsidiary loan agreements between at least
two participating banks and GRZ, satisfactory to IDA (para
4.19);
(ii) establishment of two Project Advance Accounts for LINTCO
and Misamfu Research Station and an initial deposit of
K500,000 in each of these accounts by GRZ (para 4.26).
8.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions the Project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$20.4M on standard terms to the
Government of Zambia.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
DRAFT COFFEE POLICY
General
1.        The overall goals of development of the Coffee Sub-Sector are for
coffee to become a major export crop in the 1990s and to provide a means of
increasing rural incomes.
Production
2.        The markets available for Zambian Coffee are limited and will
depend primarily on the quota Zambia received from the I.C.O. Zambia's
current quota of 450 tonnes of green coffee is likely to increase as
Zambia's coffee production increases, though it is tentatively estimated
that Zambia is unlikely to get a quota allocation in excess 6,000 tonnes of
green coffee in the foreseeable future. To receive an allocation of 6,000
tonnes would require a total production in excess of 6,000 tonnes, probably
about 8,000 tonnes; thus development of the Coffee Sub-Sector would aim at
producing up to 8,000 tonnes of green coffee in the medium term (this would
require the production of some 10,000 tonnes of parchment coffee). In
order to monitor and control coffee production within these limits a system
of registration and, if necessary at a later date, a system of licensing
coffee growers will be instituted.
3.        As the performance of the existing two parastatal estates at
Ngoli and Kateshi has been less than satisfactory, and given the financial
and managerial constraints in the public sector, future development of
coffee production would concentrate on the private sector: smallholders,
emergent farmers, commercial farmers and private estates.
4.        Large parts of Zambia are only marginally suited for coffee
growing, and available expertise and extension capabilities in coffee are
limited. To ensure that small farmers will grow coffee economically and
receive adequate extension assistance, public efforts in developing
smallholder coffee production would initially be limited to the areas which
are agro-climatically most suitable for coffee growing. These areas are in
parts of Northern, Luapula and North-Western Provinces, where soils are
suitable and potential for irrigation exists. Large farmers would be able
to establish coffee piantings in other areas provided that their invest-
ments yield adequate rates of return.
5.        Priority for development will go to areas which by their location
enable the most cost effective production, processing, transporting and
marketing of coffee.



- 53 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
Quality
6.        Zambia will aim to produce high quality coffee, which will give
satisfactory returns and most importantly, ensure the marketability of
Zambian coffee. To achieve this objective, all coffee should be of Arabica
type and fully washed.
7.        To facilitate utilization of central processing facilities and
installation of suitable irrigation systems, coffee development by
smallholders will be concentrated and limited to groups. This will enable
a uniformly high quality coffee to be produced. Concentration will also
help reduce costs involved in the provision of extension, marketing and
credit services to smallholders and will furthermore make the provision of
irrigation facilities possible. Washing facilities will generally be owned
by the private sector, either communally (e.g. by smallholders) or
Individually (e.g. by commercial farmers).
Institutional and Legal Arrangements
8.        A Coffee Board will be set up under a Coffee Act.  This Board
will operate under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development and will comprise representatives of the
coffee research establishment, smallholder coffee growers, large estate
growers, the private domestic coffee trade, LINTCO, ZCCL, the producerst
marketing organization (see para 9) and the Ministry of Finance. The Board
will have powers to regulate the industry to ensure levels of production
are in line with the I.C.O. quota and that quality is of the highest
level. If a system of licensing coffee growers becomes necessary, in order
to control production (see para 2), appropriate licensing criteria and
arrangements will be established by the Board. Other matters which will be
regulated by the Board will include the licensing of coffee nurseries, the
importation of coffee seed and seedlings and coffee varieties to be grown
in Zambia. The Board will furthermore promulgate rules and regulations to
ensure that coffee imports and exports are in accordance with I.C.O. rules
by which Zambia, as an I.C.O., member has to abide.  In addition, the Board
will agree with the producers' marketing organization (see para 9) on a
coffee classification saystem and on price guidelines. It will also advise
government on development of the sub-sector. The Board, as such, will
restrict itself to a regulatory and advisory role and will not be directly
involved with production or marketing.
9.        Marketing of coffee for export will be the responsibility of a
single producers organization. This will be a non-profit organization
owned and operated by the coffee producers who will be represented
generally in accordance with their contribution to production. LINTCO will
represent small scale coffee producers who use LINTCO as marketing
channel. The organization will be responsible for final processing and
marketing of the coffee. As existing processing capacity at ZCCLs plant is
adequate to meet Zambia's export processing needs for the foreseeable
future, this plant will be used to the maximum extent possible, whenever
such use is economical. To this end the producers organization will enter



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
into suitable arrangements with ZCCL. Acquisition of the plant's dry
processing and storage section by the producers organization will be
considered at an appropriate point in time. The organization will be free
to utilize existing institutions as agents where this is felt to be most
efficient. Coffee which cannot be exported will be sold by the
organization for domestic marketing. All coffee production will be closely
monitored by the Coffee Board.
10.       LINTCO Coffee Development Division will be the body responsible
for providing extension advice to farmers. It will also assist in
providing inputs and credit for small growers. In due course it will be
reviewed whether it is the most efficient institutional arrangement to have
these responsibilities carried out by LINTCO.
11.       For the time being ZCCL and LINTCO will continue their role as
the main purchasing agents from coffee producers, ZCCL will continue to
offer its services for exporting coffee. This will continue until the
producers organization is ready to take over these functions.
Pricing
12.       The price that producers receive will be in accordance with the
quality of coffee produced by farmers and the actual price received by the
marketing organization for the coffee.
Foreign Exchange Allowance
13.       Producers will be entitled to an agreed foreign exchange
allocation related to export earnings and in line with other non-
traditional exports. Producers marketing their coffee through LINTC0 will
receive their allocation through LINTCO. LINTCO will make arrangements for
the allowances to be distributed either as inputs or, where suitable, as
foreign exchange.



SW    aM  PFlDfl=  PM
Impsantin  Sd.edule
Pre-         pi1          PY 2           i 3          P 4           n 5               .
2         _1  2_    4- 1  2  _  4  1- 2 13  4- 1  2  3- 4  1  2  34- 1 -2  3- 4  1  _  3  4
ProjecCtIa1entatl'm)   x  x  x
wLu3
Aghna            I       x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  xx xxX x  x=_=_=_======
Irrgagtr E                x  x  xx  xx   x  x  x  x  x  x    x  x  x  xEx  x            x
PUSt=                     x  x _   X  x  x _  _   x  x  x -  -   -           - x  _  x=== =__ 
- a-ma t                 x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x             x  x          x _
AcwEntmt                                                                                                                                   U' xx 
RsaCh    8                                                  x          x         x  s  _  _                        
ZmLku                  +           X  X        X  X                'X  X X- X  X  X  X _  _                                             
VebiclePrcemt            _                  x  xx______
SJihMiders                       200         -2
Loxg     P.zxeit Faiirm          25            15            15-4
Camevrcli Farmrs                 11                    8      8



- 56 -
Xt  1g; {} 08{1gi t~~~~Chat X
{ |    ~i_   .'
210li  IIWi



- 57 -
ANNEX III
Toble I
ZA
CO=D COf E      OJUTP
ProActod Cof£   Plantinas and
Earmer Partlcisation in Pro ect
Project Year      8t Bre               EZerSent       ta a   1/   Tototl
1                  20                50              S0          120
2                  30               150             150          330
3                  40               1S0             280          470
4                  90               220             430          740
5                 130               230            520           880
6                 140               150             420          710
Total               450               950           1,850        3,250
2.     Paraer Participation (No.)
Smallboldoers       Laras'        Comrciai
ProJect Year                                                          __all  __rMent  Bment  Fan  r  Total
fau<t         l armers 2fm  I
1                 200                25              11          236
2                 200                15              8           223
3                 300                15              8           323
4                 400                15              8           423
5
6
Total             1,100                70              35        1,205
jI     It has been assmed that: some of the existing small coffee growers
could be grouped and that in addition five groups of saallholder/
mall emergent farmers would form annully; groups would start with
about 20 farmers eacb and would grow by sow additional 20 farmers each
year; farmers would grow ou average about 0.5 ha of coffee each; they
would start planting 0 1 ha in the year after joining a group and then
add 0 2 ha during each of the next two years. Groups would continue to
expand beyond the fourth project year, but financing of new members
under the project would not be considered beyond that year.
2/    It has been assumed that: in addition to soa   existing large emergent
farmers who have already started coffee plantlngs, fiften other
emrgent farmers would take up growing coffee eacb year; they would on
average grow 15 ha of coffee each; and would commce planting 5 ha in
the year after applying for credit under the project; they would add
another 5 ha during each of the following two yers. in view of the
3-year establisbment phase, farmers would be considered for project
participation only until the end of the fourth project year.
I/     It has been assumed that: ln addition to am existing comercial
farwers who are already g*ewing coffee, eight additional coimrcial
farmers would start growing coffee each year; about 60S of the
newcomrs would plant some 40 ha of coffee ech while the remaining
farmers would grow coffee on about 80 ha; they would ¢osmence planting
in the year after applying for credit; during each of the first two
years of planting they would establish 20S of the intend"e estate;
during each of the two following years they would plant another 30% of
the estate. (see also last sentence of footnote 2).



- 58 -
ANNEX III
Table 2
PW-WQUL p Mg
.W1L".           x M3., f 2.t 49.
ff-..4 d S ..... 9 I   . W._
AW4       rm no                                                    £
!!! 8!. Xt It!. .Xk X it?. Nt t  tj .W
Cost 4/                 ( coo     gaeity$    (K         fejJe      (K        ML$q       (jr)
Tractor (60 NP) 1           115,200           1     115.200
Tractor (35-40 HP) V/        90,000           1      90,000         1      90,000
Trailer (5 tons)             14,400           1      14,400        -            -
frailer (3 tos)               9,400          -            -        1        9,400                            -          -
Piek".                       74,500  J/      1       74,500        1       74,500       -            -       -          -
Notor-cycle (12S cc)         12,9003J         1      12,900         1      12,900        -           -        -
Notoried Knapsck Sprewr       3,600           1       3,600         3      10,800       2        7,200        -         -
CP3 Spryr                       900          6        5,400        4        3,600       8        7,200       1        900
Disc Norm                     6,100          1        6,100        1        6,100                    -       -          -
Tractwr-ounted SprWor V      23,800          2                     1       2.3,SI9       *
Sub-Total (1)                                    369,700               231,100               14,400                900
|f,. Tools
-ostd Hoe                        20         80        1,600       40         80        16         300        1        20
Satmur                           35         80        2,800       40        1,400       is         526        1        35
BOW$M                           115         30        3.450        1s       1,725       6          690        1       115
bz                               45         30        1,350        i5         676       6          ;0         1        46
Spade                            4S         30        1,350        15         675       6          770        1        45
Ow1bayraw                       370          6        21.                   h           2        _O           -
Sub-Total (2)                                     12,7/0                 6,385                2,795                260
Spar: 15% of Sub-Totals
(1) nd (2)                                           57,370                                     3J5                 J75
base Costs                                       439,840               273,t1O               19,776              1,335
tsical Contingocies:
lot of as Costs                                                            2      ,               98_                 13S
Grand total                                      483,826               300,420               21,756              1,4W/
1/    ftoqulremunts ceuld be reduced if the coffet planted were of a diseas resistant vwiety.
?/    Include duties and taxs of 1t6 of c.l.f. price.
3/    Includes duties nd tam of 204 of c.i.f. price.
3/    Unit costs are bhsd an price provailing in Z6ta on March 31, 1986, up-dated to July 31, 1986.



- 59 -
ANNEX III
Table 3
ZAMBIA
S=  COFFEE PRECT
Investment Cost Estimates for Credit Component
Summr
Smallholders/     Large
Small Emergent    Emergent    Comemrcial      Total       Foreign
Farmers           Farmers      Farmers         Cost
Establishment of
Plantation
(i)  Machinery Use                -          2,818.4        5,683.2     8,501.6       6,036.4
(ii)  Labor                   2,853.5        3,880.5        7,406.3    14,140.3           -
(iii) Inputs                  2,555.1        7,046.3       16,312.5    25,913.9      22,026.8
(iv)  Irrigation                475.2          976.6       10,848.1    12,299.9       9,716.9
(v)   Overheads                   -          2,310.1        8,419.1    10,729.1       4,077.1
Sub-Total               5,883.8       17,031.9       48,669.2    71,584.8      41,857.2
Irrigation
1,883.1        3,453.6       19,314.6    24,651.3      16,023.2
Agricultural
Tools
(i)  Machinery                1,090.0        1,208.0       10,667.5    12,965.5      10,632.1
(ii)  Tools                     386.0          225.9          398.1      1,010.0        343.4
(iii) Spares                    192.5           180.6       1,773.1     2,146.2       1,545.3
Sub-Total               1,668.5        1,614.5       12,838.7    16,121.7      12,520.8
Processing
Facilities                  1,645.6        6,864.0       18,413.5    26,923.1      14,000.0
Total Base Cost        11,081.0       28,964.0       99,236.0   139,281.0      84,401.2



- 60 -
twoA                                                              ANNEX III
C        l tat P11Tabe 4
2*5*1 t-u Illt11 Will 51561461591111
bmtPtv                                                    Sw tots
Wt        967   to     t1      50 MO   99        1592  1959    WI   cut  19     158       196 9" 190 15 592 593 Too]
_nm         _     _ai  _ta  _an  ahn   _ii at  mam    _a   mm  att   tata  emtst tat s. ,tt$
.    ..16613 _.__
MA.IOICA I. 4558011I.
95I"CI tWEltIIIIAIS
AStitI                        NM"-  4                        -4                                             230                                .    230
MEDtt WiCi0h                     mm"             2      -       -              -                   2          Its                                      Its
CamOmusti                       iWWS            I                         I                       4 4A446N U4 44 4                               - 2 36
I:ueanwtill  El3                 mIuMs           ,      I       I      I              -                d 46          d u64   04    l    -   -   -  2 13
WFU  "IOUSIMCiS  Il ll1t1l                       5       5lt                                       4  6I      04   46  I          4-4   .            2.7. 6
0111 lb                          114WI1       I    045    04       0.5                        2.5  664    6      342   342                        1 -  a710
Ww fiftf                         II6UIS        0.5    045    0.5           -                           46     342   342   342       .   .            11026
*Tot1e   TEOUICN.l  61811T0  is                                                                                1.424  2.736 2.736 2.394   -   -   - tt.230
IPA na
6. 11 111011tlbllll
2-3 mm UllS 33mB
N TAIEI BTANE                                                                                                      9 1  t  1  t  1  t-  9   9  90 9 969096-  540
PM? TMW IN KIlemm
CO113(Kkl     D)                              S       S      s      5       S      S   *             s11 U   s n    s n   5     75  n   75          45s
Nr-RNII oEtl M
1541E1310 lo                     g            2       t      1                          -       4   tO   140        7     0      -- -             -    2
FROE VANN                         AMY*$    1500   1.XM   1t.1    I.7M0  1.700  tXO         -  1O4040        0      0 Ui    46 Ul  468  68   -    400
mm  1XIBRIONWSW                     No           I       I      I       I      I      I   -        6   30      30    30    30    30  30  30   -    too
St5  tNi                                                                                                         395   333   333   243 243 263          I 81,50
C. 11a10.1
19                                                      5       -9 it317  396713
IUUTJ                               16          14      5  -       -           -      .           2455919            3%      -               - -        t
N.121131ID                                      24                             -      - -          4   It    29        -
9t6?                                            tO  -  :                              :                         s _I -
FAtE I EtMM
tt$SH          lI WNW    tm                             -              -       -                  30    O      12      -                                1     2
atEW wow gum                                    10-                    -                                 4 36 -                                         36
MATISSE9 IC6                                    60                                                       a -  .  .  -     0  3                           3
ISIIUILA      ftU
Uh51I5t6Pls                   UW gm                                                     -       -                   -     - -  -   -  -              60
Al        . 1131                    96           6      -       -      -       -      -         -   6        11- 45-4
CAVA     41EI                   110 tCDO  a   I                     -                                3       3     -      -     - - - -              3
STotel a1t11  8  Ew       t                                                                                        9     -      -1-                       329
ftol lllt3 CmSTS                                                                                                  4.n7 3,46  3.9 2457 243 263   - 14.4
11. - CUTSt
A. SI3 *5  SiU
AtMM t                          46d             I  I       I          I       I      I   -        6   42      42   42    42        24 42  42    -     M
amis                            f 1WS           -      3       3      3       3       3   -      15s           -   t2S   126    126  2   126-    4
tev ma                          _anM            S      teo    to      o      10     a     -      55 e t       5 e 1 o0    I      IO  to tse     -    55S
1O*-Iott   1       IIIIES11                                                                                       3   249   269   292S 249    -  1.
40                                 a6           4      9                     -        -   -      13  12       461t6         -
ot         e     Om                                                                                              411  too      -     - - - -             t
C. 9It 03
IE01II1t                      lUFIU          -      -       -      -       -      -   -        -          U42   4*2   452   412 412 412          2469
9*2t.d 44   Il3 t O11m                                                                                           42   42   412   412 412 412   -   .49
talt e1       COelS                                                                                                5352   76     8      B  S6 48       - 46  4063
-,  -- mm      -     --    --. mm in Sei
tow                                                                                                                M.2R  4,254 3.750 3S3=   9   94    - 18t5S
=mm Seeminsea    ----
/a 13311* 458151emuCM 6 MOM la 73  sloi 3139 1611#MT=
lb I  11461 3 I N  eU  UU?Y      111O 3 R.
O n, 27V 1196  0l947



tama US9'L
~~~~~~~~~~~    an                                                           m-   =M  -        w
2*i w.L  m 'amm u  to  mu
113 quo     '0 qt O OM4= MM4
13    aim tt     wa_ ta w  a  - a1   qma 10m tm1POW    mam _mu          -mF '  w    .mu a    11m 11  _MM mo mu   4
'mjmaapmuin _n _ r    Oman M
'mitV as AM    a am a us tmum tUm mm   m 1 11et 
am -  Waa iWaInow t tsaa
&WI -  la lts la II -                                                                11_11
*       at a a     *                                                                   PM ." ,'u
a,.  za   pa It       .                                 .                              OM
us  - w umut  ii at        a                                                    i n   - t t  t t t  I  a 
*   - e e  e e e   ts                                s3"|s_tt~~~~~~~~~*Nii '
49  -     n  tt> D    -k V,i            t t t I I           _4tIN tt 11 _011
in    a a a a a   a   a eI e  *             I I           t               I 11   w11=1
ttt~ ~ -I e      eeei-                         .l       _a
La     ati a a aI  a*   a  9          I I I I I I           amL  o                   IW
LaUifififif-  if if             - II1                      m              ma m mao     o
am            M=41=~SM a   a
On    _.. _  . . Pt__mA 
mq-a n t nf -t -tt't -a -ttt11
p-                    esa s t       . . . . . . .           111a11              MWM  amm
't -  -f - if £ £  if_
_m      A IE
0                                         101~~~~~~~~~urn us  m  wa-In
:is  -a - -ma                                     *L -m-     i m  -    - - eta an t'a  I m4  m
a,    . . . .   .                                            mm              aM, aomamiajIma
am              P/ ~~maim m
_, .,                                                  mimN  tti a-o
of  . - - .                                          .-ma -                      mutmt   u
mmM mm I
a:,  _ _f _ __ _imaua
_   ,                                                                          m- - - - - -t
ft             * *   it               *      * . . .
Ia                   . . . .                      .           ifelmm  ininaua
0                                                             I~~~~mm 
-          . -  -   - -    a -     -      -     -                                  10101 TM_
. _ 
s                  a    i      .     .    . .      .     .     .     .  in
ut                it  0        .        .. . . ..  ,  . . . . am         et LO Kno ww,
On  . . . .                                                    wx~~~~~~~~~~~~~am   .
a, . a,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~M m i
bl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   a -u   - '-t  a*  *s 
m     Pt .      .   .   .  .tI-       . . . . . .                                   11401=t
if  .  a,  l  .                                           t .  t
a,        -           a   a  a                    .1          a,¢
e,  . . .   .   a,  -t                                                       11 1 -llM * -1U
Cts . . .  .                               no ~~~~~~~~~~WtiOUAamma *
ft  .  . . . .           Ut    t   . . .    * t  t          mom              I       an
- - -  tif La$I.                                                                   ttIaa
to                to  *   at   . .       . . .               M OMa   aoo                t
*.   ..a,ga*   .    pp    . ..*#9.         U1B *tt '
"3am It
- * W         0-    0 tt   "-  - . *  * - I  *           asma          t        aui
t - -- -    -    -  -    -- -- - -    -    -  -               -
_ _ .~~~~~.       _  .1"
'slut mamag
mm,
B   . Z "t tt tt-    -   '     'S ' ''           ta  
e   - -     ""                  -*     *tN mo
if- ~ ~      ~      ~      ~       t 
"g.z~~~~~~~~~~~ KS D



ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
COFFEE MARKETING
Detailed Cost Table
(KWACHA  '000'
guantit                                         bdase COfLs                              DMse Costs in I
-     ----------------  Unit
Unit    1987 1988 19   1990 1991 1992 1993 Total Cost  1987 188 1M   1950  1991 1992 1993 Total   1987 1988 1989 1M   11 1992 193 Total
I. INVESTMENT C0STS
A. TECJIECAL ASSISTANCE
,OFFEE ARXETING SPECIALIST    MANNORNTHS      6    o    6    6    6    6    -    36  57   343  343  343  343343 343    -2,059    48   48  484                48  .48    -   286
TRAVEL                           VISIT       10   15   1     -         -     -     -    40  9   9013    135    -        -     -     -    360    13   19   19    -    -    -    50
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                  43B  478  478  343  W43  343    -2t419    60   66  66   48    48    48    -   336
TRAINING
SLDYh TOURS IN                                                                                                                                                                              a'
NEISNBRlN COUNTRIES            NO          3    3    3    -         -     -     -  9    15    45   45    45    -     -     -     -    135  6    6    6          -           - 19
OVRSA  STUDY
TOURS I TRAINING               NO          -    3    3    -        -     -     -  6  70     -  210  21-- -    420                       -   29   29 -   - - -               58
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                               45 255  255    -    -    -    -    555        6   35   35    -    -    -    -    77
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                             478 733 733  343  343  343    -  2974    66  102102   48  448                 - 413
Total                                                                                               478 733  m          343  343 343    -  2,974    66  102  102   40   8 4 48    - 413
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=c - = --  -c ----  ss= ---   s==s -- - -- -     -- - - -- - -    -  --- --    -  --   -- - -- -    -= -:=c--
Jue 20t 19     15!43
0  e
'-4
'-



ZABIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
CREDIT COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Table
(KWACEA '000)
tita                                                      De  costs                                                 DMss tCosts il s
Undt 199  I 1 1990 199 1992 193M TOul  Cost   19    1998   199    1990    199                192    1993    Tot1    1997 199    19    1990   1991   IM     1993  lobl
1. _T CIITS
CREDIT FOR SW    lJ                       -        -     -     -     -     -     -    -   209    543      768   1798   2P567   299P5   2P222  11#061    29       75    107    248    356    415    309   1539
1EIT FOR EltlnlR
F                                      -        -     -    -     -     -     -  -      742 2,352   3.215' 5,99   6M03   51126  4.526   28e964   103   32    447   77               31    8      629   4.023
CEllt FOR 40 VA
rn  1IL4  FERS                         -        -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -    779  2W146   3297   5,430   59015   3,923   20h60         -    108    301    45     754   696   5Sf   2,362
CnT FOR 0 NA
CIIICAL FI- -                                   -     -     -     -     -     -  -   19m   6.325  10342  15t.51  179969  15649  11300   78.67   27?    979  1.436  2090 2*496 2.173  159  10.920
Toa tUESTET CaSTS                                                                          2942 9999  16.491  25.735  32.669  29,475  21.96t 139.231   40   1.39 2.290  3.574  4*537  4.094  3.01  19.345
_ ==l .                  =s                                           i n      =_    __                        m
Total                                                                                       2W942  999   16.491  25,735  32,669 29,475  214,69  139281   40   1389  2.290  31S74 4t537 4.094  3.O51  19345              w
Mm 31t 1996 10:24
-J P
'-I7



Pap I of I
(WA=A '000)
hitUv                                kw. Caut                          kwe Ct.l in I
mkit   M 11901 SW 5990191 19921993 W total t 1IW   1966  SIM  1990I 19159219 7.1.OW1    193  56 19 1996 199 1992 1992 TOte
Sun             so"t ~* - fstS- *         fff own  ass""  a A4..  aMit amttn   f4..*..-.
I. muow  o
Pw1MA /UIi t,                   fl       IlIl   -  -  -  -*3   as   518  516   11               --..    . It    7n   n': - *             z
#1011101. 010011               IWIIW I       I I                 3116    516  u1s  as6         -  -  - 1155    r 72   17       --
MOTION 1106E361R            1110         1                        23116    518  DID                    .  WM3    72  7n2. . ..4 .44
FAIUII6LiS6I                   131110    I  II5I11I-    634  34 6SU 346346346546346 - *04    4840 4   4    48 0                             288
*TOtal 'ICHNICAL ASSSTOUM                                                   1.94It" 1480I22  36434 346  - 621   26  264 192 ~ 4 04            3 64
S. TUMID13
am TM gp   INK"  gI1s            No      3  3  3  3 3-56 to 5i   45   4545   4545  41                      270          6  6 A6          i   a3
Oyu" rASITtMa 36                            22  -          --   -4   70      -   4 140s                     a 6       19 19                  39
11*11536  36       -2-2 1 1 3                         -360 .           .       . 360           50    --               50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -;   10  -,a-
S.jel not teljlN                                                               a5 55          45455- 910    6    426  6  6                6-
C. CIVI anS
iBIuICoSTJ                       Is      32  --5 1 4                 10   420  2n0                     *  709       5   399--  --          1
UN 636UE NM6N    25 50 25  -                              ---1460026       5301.00   500     - ----2,000s 6            1     9- --  -   273
SISIUIBY        36         -      1       -~~~~~~               ~~~         ~        ~~~ 1120  120  - 120    -   1'  ---    - ;
PA (55-E611*1I  -   -   -   -  -   1 353                                     - 383                     -353       -   49        9     -
NUiNhE                           No      I     1 ---            -   3              - I   a a3    12                             -            1
01                              -3-6                   -   - 3 9            226          - -      - 238   .3    .-                          33
1                                         1-       ---I-I     .3D           55    -55           -5 1        164   6     -     .3  -  -    21
STAT1111 Wm                              -  I  .1.                     6     -.  434                        66         9  -        -   - - 9
mu3                                                 I - -      -I  2269    269          -2           9           54    --.54  -  --   106
lama5                                               I -     I     2 220    20            -20 -              9- 0    3    --.3 ---             6
367855                           me       33 -----                 613      39   39-7                             5   1-          - -        Itt
81115                            No    to010 -----20   1                    7    714    1   I2
Wm~                              in      ..U   .. .                       224   46212   31   7-..                                          2 6
0WG1PA wffER  I 130106
236S= 1T0 VP6)                   ND      2 -  -         lI I       4S1   227                U 15313-    454   32   --16 16--                 a
011T0CT3 (to t)                  No          I  -I    -  -        227-6 -  267m                            SU - 53    37   - V3 - -  -  -    74
4U10 *TU(a VP)                   361--                        --2 0         30   13-175   1252 -                                           ---  24
1111 M=  0046                   a       4-1          1- I3115 9II    46)    -151151t5ts115-92                   64   -16 16 116.-  1in
Cm=wInmA;                        a6      -  -  1  -.                   s               9 .-  -  -  -                          -   -  --a
TM= MM 51(7.5 M)                 36      2-247 -93-93-13-13
T1l1*1U411I TM1                                --      -     2                     o                  117            8        6    -   16
IIP AIIS E(6 M1               In      2  - 2  -51-6             6         6X    -76         A  a2       2W    it    - 11  - 15-32
OIIULiRIIL                                            ..   .61 2 46        46  46--            -      -5 32    9   9 -1--8 
(FM to   IUCIOI)               361                   I  -     27?2   n72                  -  72-         143   10    -     -  -1   - 2
OULIMW                           No       I-       1--  1-226                     33               a        40         4---  4-    6
OM    OM 140 1013A3             N       I6  1  1-    - -2  29               9    2--5                                            -
51006   14669113113)  U          2  -  -  -  -  .   2  57             113-II)                              16-16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2--       25  II101
1301(FM60 MP ACI                 36       -1-          --    1-222                22         -    22        4          3 ---         3       6
0111101111                       go      I  ---  -1- 272 4                  74    -               74-1to   10   --               -  -10o-21
won U4 to 6 11T0)                36      .  .  .  I  I  -         243                      434   -  -   46-  -  6  6  -  -   12
36  1--lI--   332   32                 -~~~~~~~~~~3232-- 95 4  - -4 4 --  13
UYUTf10URIgo3                           2  1          -    S         23 4   7   23 -       23o 2 - a  -    nI             3  3  - I         to
Wist 11W                                 -  -  0 10  - 50        ItU   I     -    -   9   I  -  9  -    7                  I  I  -I  - 4
9w(l6LTuEL)                      NoU               I -     1-     26              6 6   - #6  -  --    i73            12- 12 --              24
PETIE                            U       2      2-- 2    2        6   5      9         I   -  -  9  -   261a          I   I    -    I         4
iai N IIDuOMn UW                         1        -        I   22 a 29                 - 29- --  U   4   --4 -- - 
inmutiuAin K
EUSyI ,Ms                     WLlA--------                                64  323232 32 32 -225  9  4 44 4 5-31
Wm10                            .U-..                        ..                  303   5      ---        -764     5 42  1--  -  -
66-31a  1W1s. 015is SUIII                                                  2.007;,O   30  137  4046  346  -400   280  1U6 le  4? 66  3- 
F.MMIWWUNIBLITJumstOt                Wm 101 -2.19 -- -                       s   bra53-4360  299  29919



*                              I '   ' '    ' I ' '    ' '    ' '   * '    ' '    ' '  ' } ' '   ' '   ' '  ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' j i    ' ' ' ' ' ' '    I    '  i
...........    .11,.                           G*   jS        **.....    '! 
:1:1::  *.~*.. . ..**.~..         *l.II. .S.I.    .I .           j . .l   SS  I   P      
=MS    it          . . . . . .                   s,~t  .    ~                 *  S     I  Il
I    14     t4'7,45.                        15IIII   IS  ~~~
,,,  . I  I  S ....     .  . .   .  .                                     '.
-  -.4                                   IS    lIlIE   II   SI La                 44.    5A0
I  ISIS ,1 1   . * ,eSI-I *0 1                     1 ', .r*I Sb    I t   . . .
....... fl....  VS              IS..    ,..4IVfe    SC49                 e.new.,r.c
-''g' 8 St    , . $ * $ w---'"   e t Ftxt   ---  -°------    -                I          -------
*a SiisfSStS^s t tl ip;tvb^  ^tt  gAl           2 is t -Was aleg  gol 
'~~~~~~ ~~ ' 'III '51 ' '*    ''''''               ''''}i Ij                  gi
.2                                Ir    :II I  11~~-. 
£ss i S S      5 5  1511 5 5   *   . a          **      5IIISI           1555           5555    14SFt| ! XX       EXq10 il2li 
* S I I                    .I 55   l*.    5    5    5*  SIISS           15   ¢X§§41    IS  S I I  * O
1                   15-..... ..   44 5                        0    55  51551  SIl   S 5445 I I * * 
* *SSSI . .    . . . . .415 .Il . .n-I
*~~~~        55   5-I5___ 4_ .* fl  I _       I S ,lIII4I--. ,S                     4 1, ,,  1 '.  ,      45  55 
o~         ~~ -S B;                                                                a IB 



- 66 -
AINMEX III
Table 9
Page 1 of 2
ZANBIA
SECOND COFMBt PROJECT
Estimated Yields 1/ fo  Proiect Coffee
(clean coffee weight)
1.     Irrizated Coffee Grown by Coercial farmers 
First Pruning Cycle             Second (and following) Pruning Cacles
Years after        Yield 3/    Years after            Yield
Planting          (kg/hal       Planting             (kg/ha)
I
2 
3                600      8 (13) (18) (23)         1,100
4              1,300       9 (14) (19) (24)        1,600
5              1,600   ' 10 (15) (20) (25)         1,800
6              2,000      11 (16) (21) (26)        2,000
7              2,000     12 (17) (22) (27)         2,000
5-year average         1,500        5-year average          1,700
2.     Irrigated Coffee Grown by Lar8e Emergent farmers 2/
First Pruning Cycle             Second (and followins) Pruning Cycles
Years after        Yield 4/    Years after             Yield 4/
Planting          (kg/ha)       Planting             (kg/haT)
1
2-
3                400      8 (13) (18) (23)           750
4                850       9 (14) (19) (24)        1,100
5              1,100     10 (15) (20) (25)         1,250
6              1,450     11 (16) (21) (26)         1,450
7              1,450     12 (17) (22) (27)         1,450
5-year average         1,050        5-year average          1,200
3.     Irrigated Coffee Grown by Smallholders/Small Emergent Farmers 2/
First Pruning Cycle             Second (and following) Prunins Cycles
Years after        Yield 5/    Years after            Yield 5/
Planting          (ks/ha)       Plantin8             (kg/ha)
I 
2-
3                300      8 (13) (18) (23)           600
4                750      9 (14) (19) (24)           850
5                900     10 (15) (20) (25)         1,000
6              1,150     11 (16) (21) (26)         1,150
7               l,50     12 (17) (22) (27)         1.150
5-year average           850        5-year average            950



-67-
ANNEX III
Table 9
Paoe 2 of 2
4.    TUnirrisated Coffee Grown by Smallholders/Small Emergent Farmers 6/
First Prunins Cycle            Second (and following) Pruning Cycles
Years after        Yield       Years after            Yield
Planting          (kg/ha)      Planting              (kg/ha)
1                  _
2                  _
3                100      8 (13) (18) (23)           225
4                275      9 (14) (19) (24)           350
5                350     10 (15) (20) (25)          400
6               450      11 (16) (21) (26)           450
7               450      12 (17) (22) (27)          450
5-year average           325        5-year average           375
-/ t4 'Mission estimates, based on field observations on rain-fed and
irrigated coffee; discussions with farmers and coffee research
staff; experience at commercial coffee estates; smallholder
plantings and at the estates being developed under the Coffee
Production Project (Cr. 863-ZA). Estimates take also into
consideration experience with smallholder and estate coffee in
Kenya.
2/     Estimates are based on assumed coffee tree spacing of 2.50 x 1.25
meters, i.e. 3,200 trees/ha.
3/     Estimates assume high standards of cultural practices and use of a
sprinkler or microjet/trickle irrigation system.
4/     The level of management has been noted to be usually lower for
large emergent than for commercial farmers. Also, large emergent
farmers would generally use furrow irrigation. Coffee yields for
large emergent farmers have therefore been estimated to be about
30% lower than those for commercial farmers.
S/     Smallholder coffee yields have been estimated at about 80% of
those for large emergent farmers. It has been observed that large
emergent farmers apply generally more inputs and higher standards
of management than smallholders/small emergent farmers.
6/     Estimates are based on the current smallholder practice of spacing
trees 2.30 x 2.30 meters apart (1,890 trees per ha). Smallholder
coffee yields per tree on unirrigated land have been observed to
be markedly lower than those on irrigated land. Yields per tree
on rain-fed plots are estimated to be only about 2/3 of those on
irrigated land.



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Table 10
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
Price Proiections for Zambia Coffee
(per ton of clean coffee)
A.        PRICE PROJECTIONS - WITH AN INTERNATIONAL
COFFEE AGREEMENT                                          US$/ton
Projected 1995 ICO Indicator Price (other mild arabicas,
ex-dock New York) - in 1986 constant US$ 1/                       3,335.00
Transport, insurance, handling (f.o.b. Dar es Salaam
to ex-dock New York)
(i)       Transport of containerized coffee from
Dar es Salaam to New York 2/                              125.00
(ii)      Landing charges New York                                      47.00
(iii)     Ad valorem charges including insurance
(0.5X) and interest (1.02): 1.5% of
US$ 3,200 (average value per ton of
clean coffee)                                              48.00
Transport, insurance, handling (factory gate Kasama
to f.o.b. Bar es Salaam)
(i)       Transport factory gate Kasama to port
Bar es Salaam - by rail                                    41.10
(ii)      Port and transit charges, storage, handling
and incidentals (TSh 462/ton of clean coffee)              25.70
(iii)     Ad valorem charges including insurance
(0.28751), interest (1.75%), wharfage (1z)
and bank commission (0.52): 3.5375% of
US$ 3,200 (average value per ton of
clean coffee)                                             113.20
Projected 1995 ICO Indicator Price - Kasama factory
gate equivalent                                                   2,935.00
Projected 1995 Quota Prices for Zambia Coffee
(in 1986 constant USM) - Kasam- factory gate
equivalent:
Producer                         Main Grade      Minor Grade 4/    Under-Graae/
.1buni 5/
Commercial Farmer                3,268.50 3/        2,718.20          2,168.00
Large Emergent Farmer            3,176.80 6/        2,640.30          2,168.00
Smallholder/Small Emergent
Farmer
(i)    Coffee Processed at
Central Pulpery        3,176.80 6/         2,640.30          2,168.00
(ii)   Coffee Processed by
Farmer                 2,901.70 7/         2,406.40          2,168.00



- 69 -
ANNEX III
Table 10
iage 2 of 4
Pro3ected 1995 Prices in Non-Quota
Markets for Zambia Coffee
(in 1986 constant US$) -
Kasama factory gate equivalent: 8/
Producer                        Main Grade      Minor Grade 4/    Under-Grade/
Mbuni 5/
Commercial Farmer               2,788.20           2,320.50          1,852.80
Large Emergent Farmer           2,710.30           2,254.20          1,852.80
Smallholder/Small Emergent
Farmer
(i)    Coffee Processed at
Central Pulpery        2,710.30           2,254.20         1,852.80
(ii)   Coffee Processed by
Farmer                 2,476.40          2,055.40          1,852.80
Expected Out-turn Ratios of Zambia
Coffee by Grade: 9/
Producer                        Main Grade      Minor Grade       Under-Grade/
Nbuni
Commercial Farmer                    70X             20X               10X
Large Emergent Farmer                70S             20X               10%
Smallholder/Small Emergent
Farmer
(i)    Coffee Processed
at Central Pulpery          65Z             20%              15%
(ii)   Coffee Processed
by Farmer                   60X            20%               201
Expected Sales Distribution betveen Quota
Market and Non-Quota Markets: 10/
Market                          Main Grade      Minor Grade       Under-Grade/
Mbuni
Quota Export Market                 1001             401
Non-Quota Export Market                              30%               401
Domestic Market                        -             30S               601



- 70 -
ANNEX III
Table 10
Page 3 of 4
Projected Averase Prices in 1995 for
Zambia Coffee (in 1986 constant prices) -
Kasama factory late equivalent: It/
Producer                                        Average Price (per ton)
US$               Kwacha
Commercial Farmer                             2,969.10           21,377.80
Large Emergent Farmer                         2,890.80           20,813.40
Smallholder/Small Emergent
Farmer
(i)    Coffee Processed at
Central Pulpery                      2,824.60          20,336.80
(ii)   Coffee Processed
by Farmer                           2,550.70           18,365.10
B.        PRXCE PROJECTIONS - WITHOUT INTERNATIONAL COFFEE AGREEMENT
Projected 1995 Export Prices for Zambia
Coffee (in 1986 constant US$) - Kasama
factory gate equivalent: 12/
Producer                        Main Grade      Minor Grade 4/    Under-Grade/
Mbuni 5/
Commercial Farmer               2,901.70 3/        2,406.40          1,911.20
Large Emergent Farmer           2,819.10 6/        2,336.20          1,911.20
Smallholder/Small Emergent
Farmer
(i)    Coffee Processed at
Central Pulpery        2,819.10 6/        2,336.20          1,911.20
(ii)   Coffee Processed by
Farmer                 2,571.50           2,125.80          1,911.20
Projected Average Prices in 1995 for
Zambia Coffee (in 1986 constant
prices) - Kasama factory sate
equivalent: 11/
Producer                                        Average Price (per ton)
US$               Kwacha
Commercial Farmer                             2,703.60           19,465.60
Large Emergent Farmer                         2,631.70           18,948.50
Smallholder/Small Emergent
Farmer
(i)    Coffee Processed at
Central Pulpery                     2,586.30           18,621.70
(ii)   Coffee Processed by
Farmer                              2,350.30           16,922.00
1/     Source: Draft IBRD report on Price Prospects for major Primary
Commodities.  The price in currern  US$ forecast for 1995 has been
deflated by the Manufacturing Un.. Value Index.



-71-
ANNEX III
Table 10
Pate 4 of 4
2/     20 foot container holds 16.8 tons of clean coffee.
3/     On the basis of prices obtained by ZCCL for coffee exported under
Zambia's ICO quota, it has been estimated that Zambia quality washed
arabica will earn a 10% premium over the ICO Indicator Price for other
mild arabicas.
4/     In line with experience to date, Minor Grade coffee is estimated to
fetch a 15% lower price than the Main Grades.
5/     Based on prices obtained in 1984/85, it is expected that the price for
Under Grade/Mbuni Coffee will be 30X lower than for Zambia quality
washed arabica.
6/     For emergent farmers and smallholders who would process their coffee at
washing stations using a hand pulper, it has been assumed that, at
least in the initial years, quality of processing would be somewhat
lower than in the case of commercial farmers. Accordingly, prices have
been estimated to be 2.5% lower than those expected for commercial
farmers.
7/     Quality of coffee processed by individual smallholders/small emergent
farmers would vary considerably and be generally lower than of coffee
processed at washing stations. It has been estimated that prices for
such coffee would be 10% lower than those expected for commercial
farmers.
8/     Prices in the non-quota market have been estimated to be 15% lower than
those in the quota market. Transport, insurance and handling costs for
sales in non-quota markets have been estimated at US$ 330.00/ton of
clean coffee. Factory gate prices for sales in the domestic market
have been assumed the sa&e as in the non-quota market.
9/     Mission estimates based on the quality of coffee procured by ZCCL in
1984/85 and of ZCCL's own production.
10/    It has been estimated that Zambia would be able to obtain a quota from
the ICO for only about 75% - 80% of the country's coffee production.
The remaining 20% to 25% of the coffee produced would have to be sold
in the domestic and non-quota export markets.
11/    Calculated on the basis of projected 1995 prices, expected quality
grades and the proportion of sales in the export and domestic markets.
12/    Without an International Coffee Agreement, it has been estimated that
export prices would be 10% below the projected quota market price.
Factory gate prices for sales in the domestic market have been assumed
to the same as in the export market.



rr   t,* E*: ji  =20tttttsttte:  t  s  31t $   -    X              _  t                      ts  ffi                          r  r~~i
si|l'i,~ItLsi   *                                      -Z|i   iii   iilFii|jj
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L t                        6,0   -t1l°i#                                                                       t7
2t*-r[tt}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                                             . . .- .| .t .t!  .t .St|  . ..W"t  .Xta  . te¢eN  -
i | t tg g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                     g ; w-!oi   i   v WP    a  . .g?  . . . . -.
t!  i  iltW   l l  1   }     g }g  Z | || t                    t Stb"  eif   @         e || |............                |      i t
t0>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                            ii .- .    .    .g .    .t .              .   __.     _  e  i'i6
g [! e { £ itfl "! * _ }lt ~~~~....|lP"§X*!*te@@*......                                                            mi 0
rLa                                                                                                                                                                  [ 't      *  ... Lr       Et    .....       :
x3            f f   v         l      S       Ett  a    X            fttg|  t                tS t?i        F      *    ei   .*   .  .   . .  . .   !_t s
ZZ             at 01                     N §t t'             itti2t;                   tt01tlsg                  0r
a       }                             f_Xri_:e9§                                     :3    i   E,         ,            . . . . .           #' .
it      s                                                                          Ut*4 X S$    Y      iw3  WP   e36*                   I
s:   i |    g } §  g s  +    r   J § 3 ti ii   s  g St s ! g ?! p. t£.. .t. . .. . . .                                          I



- 73 -
31060                                                   ~~~~~~~~ANNEX III
Ta~ble 12
afl4040p141 Iwqpt Form rcIq 0.1 tel ofg.ffS
I. Walvp-wtom ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4.cstl494~    
4.iiJij.NK     vos           ..      .       .      .       .                                    ... -.                 .     -.     ..       .            ..        .      .      .      -.      ..     -.       .
fill Uv                   354.0  7M3.   943.    47.5  411.2  25.9
flit) IqtWi 25 I. 97.4                    19.3  50.2   MS0.   22.3
4144  4.r4t. QO. & l01t.. 2.4 72   132.0  132.0  144.0   52.0
4e)  Plata. 4.v0.i U 
Ii)  NcoMp                       100.0                                        9100.                    .0                      0                                         0640.
(14)  1..                       00.                                         260.0      --                       .       20.0                                          i.
44434 96w.         -    4~~~~~75.9  .      *      .           .       n.0                                          os..                                        '15.0 
**Cfas.ha Foslitty 141       -240.0                                                                     .       M                                                         1* .
4husical TetagcKios 51   81.1  244.0              246.0                         133.5    .                     14.5          533                                          In.$0
tot   cta4 .1.  Equtiio      H4I2.  374.  4009.0  442,7  5037.?  133.0    0.0  44H.5        0. 0.0    0. 0 .   459,5    0.0  1440.       0.0    c  4.0   .     0.0    0.0  140.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2. o9elo.tiq positwos
-014.11. 4.j"*4 It
41)  o 14w                                            4o   37A.  03.    1. 32.3            032.3  032.3 M   32.332.3 MU   3233  0.302.3 6 32.3 6 32.1  012.3          032.3  032.3 6  32.3   03.3 MS032.3  03.3
Wall 4q4                 .       ..                    4.12  339.   45.95059 10. 50 5.9  5          05.9  505.9  54.9    103.9L SI  10.9  505.   50.9  145.9  541.9  15.9  105.   10.9  505.9  505.   504.
-Iet.9w. S kid..3/    .                        .     3.4   79.2  132.0  432.0  432.0  132.0  132.0  432.0  432.0  432.0  432.0  412.0  132.0  432.0  4I3.   132. 0 42.0  132.0  432.0  I32.   432.0
-Iwvoust 41
41) 4,0w                                          33.   454.9  337.5  140.   590.   USL0   469    43.09  545.   053.14       W 5 0.43.4  410.054.6  0131.  145.    WA.  470.0  54.0  0413.4  33.0  547.5
Ill I 6as80. lp .4c            ..                25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0    25.0 2.  225.0                 5.L0ZL  25.0   25.0
-M  frugg.5q 0                                    23.1   94.9  210.   342.0  309.4  305.0  34.0  274.2  344.9  303.   305.   345.0  2.2  344.1 3.4   3 0L0.4  33.1  274.2  34.4.  303.   305.   323.
ltrsogpp  of ON     t 71    .                       .5   33.    15.0  444.3  434.3  430.0  100.0   91.5  424.3  4303   134.0  440.0   97.5  424.3  430.3  434.0  40.01  97.   124.3  434.   430.   445.0
4.1. 96.tila Cutst             0.0    0.0    0.0  0V.3   314.0  444.  2279.0 2194.1 243.1 32519.0, 2405.  2302.9  240.6 2035.  225.0 21405.5   2             M2.   24 1.240.7 2219.0 2445.  2302.  240.  235.  2344.
n1. M uamm
5g4pyf    W44 0                                 0140.4  2745.  0401.0 99491.9 1470.0 40154040. 5 181194 .4 9003. 44403.4 44515.  0640.  7934      6 11.4 I63. 44I. 4754   64.  1934.  4013.3551413.0  4105.4  9454.
(44 1wUH411O4wpp9/1                         -     I2.?   M4.   422.0  454.5  243.5  244.5  476.1 9 .46.  497.3  22.7  244.5  7470.   45.0  497.3  222.1 :244.5  570.9  414.0  497.3  14.7  214.5  40.1.
lit) Irv WKa. mhwq. 40/                           401.0   04.0  400.  201.0  345.0  342.0  U04.0  234.   391.0  321.0  312.0  214.0  230024.0 M           327.0  342.0  244.0  234.0  294.   3.   342.0  270.
14td  km'Tes                    0.0    0.0    0.0  519,19 2049.  5".40 0504.9 40144.34454.6 8040.  153.I 9375. 1443.11 4445.0  0440.  136.  93.1414534.9 44454.0 0444.  1536.7 9315. 445L10.9 1045.0  0694.0
li1. Mi oit33               .492.4 *374.3 -I.409  -304440.1 tOW.     0,5  0322.14   L 0 1337740.0 01449.  533.2 405.1 11447    14.3 044.5044.5  51.2 7012.2 44. 10 40.0I&  432.5 533.  1042.  044.3 7040.0 400.0
t4 w.    o   Ill4444       7061 2019  .3  909.0  3472.6  406.2
la4 srtWTI  41/                                              'AM73.) 3472.3  440.4 39M4.  341733  3912
Mjm a( t t**inS 1)1                                        ?7SS.  480M.  2344.7 2420.1 2397 203.8
46. AMS1 W5 CO         3     424.016  -95.  -M-*.  .147-3  44409- IOSS9 4455.4  4314.1 Gm4. 5727.0 4020.4 0052.  041.3  47.54 6044.  5313.  7042.2  041.13  1040.0 452.5 5373.2 7912.2 0141.3 700.0 0M$.
IMdily LaW  W2   -          164.   140.0  94.0  673.0  0459  90. 900.0         940.0   90.0  140.0  940 .0  990.   "Ls.  940.   190.   940.0  940.   "L0.   90.0  90.0  960.0  940.0  33.0   00.   "Le
9. "sle  M   OmI      no13      0       .      0.0  52.   34.0 278.9 5555.4 5214.4 4900.3 6117.0 $10.0 715.7 094.3 70M.5  709,  027.2  91L42.  1447.3   46.0  50214.  027.2 1942.2 0947.3  In&#. 7400.
------ P        h.d )~~~~~~kt of 0       t640   T otal14. Captd 1mp1.t*4  30        6
-f111.n 4,  Oaitt of  1w..wo so Cwsuost,4t.mt          50 
it                     140154of80 cost of law, iqytsa ci  r4pt4. is VMS Ito 44., fro  W8  ?W  of pltiati, are caudpal OoI  qI pSt4i twos.
ii  3.580 cm  of nc3280*r. SW   dil  Igs I faw.I tW#O dd cl  as. GaWW*Nh 04$., tblO dd  ..          080  CMe cost  4w  cley,1W   M w far IV wA  puet thick IMIG406.M ocosll.
SI               btre4atl imdapustad  ke43  twro s ot ow  a to w     WPpioi.
41 Annex III Table 2
S1til"a M.4.4*444     kW44  cast Of lerlstio  4l149Mt4 apicItworl socitiwy it  O  losI  SW pateasg facility.
01  AmWIp - pwm lq cutW tw 4of di  calff. 170 M    oTb 1.4423.
It 04   It 64o of . .44.g". has. of ucaladuiam  4.1 os6tuimte  ewq. ElOtaM  ft. a.m Lo           q  Cu)l  otenpt cost 40 10.4 Wp to .4to4o  Wdnosh, adciil au Li. covsmic r,tio ftro parcO     1 cimc c404e
01 Prices and Yields from Annex III Table 9 and Table 10
9/1 1445.t*4St21 of Ws evdgs
W0/1tlcta oOWP ft Arv OVmossif 07 I3 1400of.d0 cIa. fa ic 4Aa spart MP qo 441 pW 60k g4).
lit1I444   m 0.       ad480444  putlctpatlq 03 add prosdds 41... for al4 os4.4bi*t Cos t, 0 fe.44y 4*waw4444145ty ottlutd*44if to Zoo "w*y%1yirIpW   &f1908  Ith itial five pesac laws.
lutwost ftyt  2M  Wp an" S law" Wa.e ppi*  a pimtp1  ad iftwost; ptlacip13 .0 ana. 4.tw.   to. 4 wt1ldam 4                 VW$ .t. 466.ia .140i auth "WtI 1401 tow 0W     0  7 W, M0  i.sTwo 0 t80aos  II.
IV1 It W0 80. .41.4    tOd ofto M 0 r-E    0 of faty lo6w  code t 80..  p.41.. pp yew for 480 ostab4,,Ornt, osotem               SWM OWwotilq of calfa..
IV/ haci 11lct1iq Prq.  pw Is 0.1 kag yw 20. U 0 hot  w Is L 0.2.
141 k"o46t Ome 4048  cotk       4  10. ctr,  pr.mio Costar: K133,000                         It On 40. nsusn  thaI a W"a  404 w,s .54.a4tow  C0f.. free 04025. M.014wl o n14   atOs clntw.
45/ 1104t0   480 d44ff.... hetwem  deft  ""Jerv          1, sctius   cid  mI ta.   WeU  seric  t is,iama l twn as M, e W        .d4..-t  bvd dlai 4       )1mII   Alf ...-.
hotew. esaUlse  toss ad deflated 4.0. $erice peycates.  rth  discuest rt"te  Used aT  those as.t4estC4, Ito  .t 1"flet Sm: 7'.l Int 49R?N  42 f..t
13. i O 405 tOesitw..
44/ Before jocoe tame. of 452 of profits.



t   is*ltW   iS}i^|gS;g! s t  1 S :> A t 8tr: sis sto St~~~.                                                                                                                                        .     .      *     t*.   .       .  .  .   s s.   . _Ss_t 
TSW' l   Sl l ',   lS S0IST | I          ;  S       ° TS   5t_                        w i 5t 1~£    _S                                        XS '°  P   ~  ++ +   '                                X, 0 U | ' ^ ' ~ ^  ~S.                            * 
gtrLla                       3S    tS1                                                      °¢t     t4                              S     i      WS                                      tt     0P __ O                                        Y                          --+                                 S-
5it W Ffs ¢ 5 :t s st ¢ to s I g t -- " a i ¢ 0~~~~~~..   ._  .   .    '.                                                                                                                                              .  .  =,  £'   .   .
st  {,    r i« t g E W  r , |  t tc 3 _ _ 92! t *S9 1 _ ,S: - o  ',, -  - . . ..    .   .  .  .  .3 .3    .  .
s ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I ,t                                                                                                                                                                                   .  t3 t1 j3i ,,0 0* t333t}_     t3_    F~Y  i       . . .   . . . . . '.  3     



ANNEX III
3012*                                                   ~~~~~~~~Table 14.
WWIJfw- mom mmn Patie11
lot  ...    .      ...~~~~~~~~~~~~ii ..t249p1u £0
2.1ste2all   dit 1w4w t1
fiI   Oukawow              294.   24.4   34.    34A.9.                     .                              - . .                  .        .      -                                                                       
III) Low0                  20.9    II   19.t   40.4   21.4   W2           Im 2 .1
lilt) lapot.,              32.2   40.0   40.3   04.6   44.2   30. 2*0.9
02,2  2wfil. at. S 921st.   22.1   11.0   43.9   42.6   30.0   3I'S  2I.$
0,)  flUe. Ovareda 23   1.4 It'.   10.9   30.0
*riaIu   I Ss 3tep    242.3  142.1     -                                                   1224.  1 24.0                                                                 1.14.
2il    403.wy                -    321.   221.0                                   3214   211.6     -                            21.4  221.4                                   21.4  221.4
221  laad$                          1.      3.2                                   3.4    3.2                                     3:3    3.2                                    1.      3.2
umlow" 30u                         2.1   21.1                                     21,0   17.0                                   11.0   21.0                            -      2.0   21.0
.OoocmII faility                             .   394.3.            .       .       .       .        . .          714.0.        ..                   ..                         14.9 
Afford2 3.20s9WlS  124.2   V7.    23.7   39.4                      .               3.?   Uj.)   22.4   22.4    7.4       -       11.   21i1 I                           7     33.7   I3.? 
1.3.2 Wiuu   titv1bodtue       421.0  402.4  379.2  723.2  1222.4   90.1   12.2  230.2  129.2  23..  230.4   12.0    0.0   ml 1 33.2    9.0    0.1    0.0  130.4  310                    I.2 210.     0.0 0. 9.0    0.0
2.   rstiaq £apsltvn
-"*Ut. owabaods 23                   .                     30.0   10.0   30.0   10.0   30,1   1.    39.0   19.    30.0   30.    30.0    5.I   50.9   20.9   50.0   30.0   30.I   30.0   SOS   30.0   10
42.A.. 493stw.ie 21
01) L4uw                            .                        .3   It.4   29.2   421-    42.1   42.S W5 429    43.1 . 41.152.    4I.3   #I.S   42.3  4I.1   42.1   42.1   43.1   42.1  '4.1   42.1   42.1
(It)  at.                                               1  3.9   27.9   49.0   49.7   49.'   I97       4,    49.1   49.1   49.1   At.?    9.   4O  I   49.1   49.1   49.1   09.7   49.7   49. 1   31',   "a.
*Ifln4t. 30.. I 9.ist.31                                    1  2.5   21.9   43.  9 4.4   42.,   42.4   42.4   42.6   42.4   42.4   42.4   42.4   42.4   O1.6   42.4   42.4   42.4   42.6   42.    42.4    4.4
012  149.3.6    13.4 220                                           2.0        30.1 102    12.0   12.2   40 3    47.2   14.4   12.0   12.2   49.3   4.1.   14.    $S 2.1 1.    40.3   41.2   30.6   $1.0   37.2
(Ito $rqtato, hpg etc           ..                  2.0     .0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.S    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.2    2.0    2.0    2.0
-W4  PriwWi  U1                                      4.4   I4.$   29.    49.2   43.5        4. 64.1 L2   42.2   19.7   09.2   47.0   46.?   42.2   19.1   49.1   61.    44*1   42.2   19.?   4.2   47.0   442
*lrua,t 00 pmn3mt 11          .      .       -       1.2    3.9    7.4   122.    16.1   27.0,  2174    24.21      21.1   20.2   21.6   21.    Ml.  21.1   20.2   11.4  12L4    MI.  21.1    2.2   21.0   21.
14342 30ir4t29 1491;    0.0    0.0    0.0   12.4  31.    0.    1.    1,0 393 324 373 34.    4.    4.    4.4    .32.   349.2  320.1  344.01  34.4  31.3  3492 20. 7 S                                    244.4  342.4
0.2.9.2.41.9 w.                                              02 117 M2314 W33.                              i      0-
filvwy Sato 93                                   1    42.4  324.9  449.9  2203.  14201,  1473.7. t417.9  WW4.  232.  20.3 t  2301.9  2497.9  MI 2 11. 2421 2154.3  212.0  40 1.2324. 13242. 0 623.3  215.0  2491.9
Law.
222 vat"42o Ckp  9,1         .               .       2.2    4.1   23.0   22.12  20.     29.    293   21.5   149    32.2   30.2    9. 214 1.1   14.9   31.1   30.2    "A 92.9 2.               2 4.912.    20.2  2M.
1032 &V Fr. ThW., 301                        -      2.9    9.I   20.2   32.0   40.2   20.0    :.3 1    R.4   31.1   43.1   42.2   41,0                  TIJ 1,    43.1   42.2   42.9   39.4   V7.1   43.1   42.    41.0
701t2 04rm  1A2.a                0.0    0.0    0.0   91.1  304.3  420.4  24SL.  2339.0  n 1 10.2424.4  2320.4  321.0  2412.1 M 3 1).2414.4  2324.4M 2            T19.   24312437.7  it'.   22304210.6 -0  2I1.12432.7  2424.4
222. 41 KWITS                .212.0 -442.  .319.2 -.42.    70.1  339.1  72.   952.2  074.3  911.4  929.1  041.4  2222.9  "92.1  403.)               L 9 10.    20.1 2H22.  9"L.   403.   09.   92.9            oo. 12.02072410.0
Lou besipt$ it1            295.9  W47.   290.4  134.9   92.2       -
kmO vi eek  II/              .     39.2   20.7   10L4  MJs  043.2  007.2  323.4  405.   497.2  140.9
widotmcam   Inc IpfIatCO  2/            7.    32.6    61.3 227.2  209.4  222.7 2963    203.0 240.1  21714
t9. 411101 MT7 pAI             .0.324. ..3. -2 2  .6.                222.  121.1  02.2 1       .    9              041.4  2222.9  910.1  "03.   919.3  920.0  2212.0  930.2  403.   NO.   920.   22020.1 2IL      M&       404.0
Fe0Ldt  6w I2V              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.S    0.0    0.0          .7    0.0    0.9    0.0    0.        64.    0.0    0.0
W. 11111IIIS         C   Rm N  -AlU   .41.27.3   .1sj*g396.2 4.3    '22.7  921.7 621.2I  92.6   16. 7  P11-*  $047.  2112.9  90.   903.7  930.3  42.  142.0  930.   41137   402I                  3. 12L 32.J  2ML0.  2464,0
-~~-.-...-.-......-...42,wci,2             te, o la b 00 0     Toa l . t 341. W ayedi0    24&I4
...................--..---                                              2     1c      4Ae.0                3ia,o   rt   on Fewm', Cokutil,4i,o   . 
If 1             t42029 c4od oflaw, lugis u   irrigdils isaywsn I23.4  fro  the~    00 d   She! iq, on  maidm0l dm1Owt osposdtorm%
it1                         Swro  CMt. Odd ?*wO  2403. It       2.9St OMWIl  CashM, VW In la, 2 4 W'. Ms.Ildurld fM2pmit Cauo.
UI               Iripiad dadwlugn odd So cwrlld at ow  a to   w  WioL.
4,1              le9w,tss  t.            20   r      wl   P43. 90ir ili.
13 bus" at lot00of .4 ,90 of aipti. #"WWIm4 *14923,42 o"miy VA3U0 0os a rocwgatt facility.
It  Owagi otsemsim; cut w o       of d.0.. co#4e, 1 'M
7/A  1023030  lW d   lm     N.##  lmiaof aklcmitlau  (it atiitod swap 6/st.0 frot MMt.g.9.144  f0ll a trae               -te  of I 0. gIt W . Is  13.4 to   o  m3, AM  012014 0.0 (mmiiw rtil fro  p*6.o9t tide   aIim.
01 Prices and Yields from Annex III Table 9 and Table 10
91 bt2.3.it n f duIwvaIu
SW/ bt2u30  avg  fw  VIr     m - by      MMes.o0    1. £401.00a o  C1.. (Wo  f. loclai  .Wt Upg d  I  yse  40k   aoI.
II/ Ita he   . ..UK   that tie Wtt13p4b9 NOw  wld# porwid fism.fr  O s, 1     capital .pudtvw  INlu ttoie 1t191  IpraJut 3P'3  ,309 i            ,tu. T02    W  4W.   idIltdw  04."2. a1ly .   W-     D  Wi..  p. l00   idiret.
riElpad  to.Is r*Wpid  em  Oper  commls dol  die1 wimi M1o0           w IS 1. yn4g1203In one I dropu0  12
I212.the CM  00  -uni  ad SW       g  unutowp   fume, fully l*ir kmad sot ha   4,OWId.o
131,  ow  pas  pe " .r  pwe to S kq pw  2i   k I     w ha   14222 94 m43. 1229U. A4.2 cl  00M of &la 2..  mia  324 to      hu M   I 141t  Wa Up iviorud,
cetue. of 211 of profit..
ITUtse dw ftaonce Ostuem east arvlc. In noMIna .d reel terw. Debt w.Al c. In osmsttnal(C ha. been, sdju~~tod ey adding the differenc*
betome.m nomiusl terms end deflated debt service payento. TM. dieccat rate., u..d are tboaa .atinated inlca ias IflaklIV: M3 for 2901:. 232 for
19001; 41nd 20X th,eretot0.



- 76 -
tlII                                                                ANNEX III
34095 41131?                                                      Table  15
co ti      ,14 - 'la   " pli   n  3
INaOa  Iva w j. b. .04914943361
il_Ndt VWi$nt1
44 Ii4.404v
I   tVatltueS                 I                 -           e                ?            -      i       1      I        S     i  i9t                        I                             t*2 
_.a                                 PL      1.1     .           .    .      .       ._  .               _..  .         _.  ..  ..            ~ .   ._    _.   _.     _.         _..  .            _.   .         _.
633   hahlwy               49.    4       7.    I3.3
453lie                     329      1.4   34.  u5 s.3    14.0   14   3.9
013i2 lt.                  64.3   3.4  32.   27.2          .3L  I 74.3   41.-
6i1,   i t. 6.I 4bd.   S.A  411.   IL            i      0.    U.        W       .        .     .                 .       . .  .     .       .                 .       .      .       .      .
IT)  Natea. %VWeit 3/   1.    92.    92.7   92.7
*Irt"tm  3ro.31            432.   4222*                                                  *    4 2.4    2.0    -                                              *    4og  442 .4 W 
4W.t- Io[l", tmd$ 4*
U31    0tw                  -    336.9                                           LI4.9    -             ,. 2IL.9      .       .      .       . 343.   t .t    -  -   -   224.9    6.9            .
-ftolIlT .        _       _        4,4y4,4 .                  .      .       .4                    .           .      -        .4    4,4    .       .       . . .   ._.                   . .
-Mtpsk    tetOia h   5*      2 .2 A64.    22.4   43.3                     *      22.    22.0   44.3   4L9.2   121.     .      22.4  224    h.    44.} 2   73.                     I.       .     e
lOSe C*33. bpeaitgw           44134.    7.   29221                  237 9.    4.   242.9  442,2  462.2  222.0    4.0  242.9  242.9    0.4    4.0    0.4  442.2  365.   241.9    6.0    0.4    L.0    4.I
L OWdlai   uittta
nV -   .0 .4  . . twntn}*.X n.lut nu nu c . 31 . . .7nlntn
Ula iSt -                          -                     2       3LI.2    1363ILL063.                           .0    3.0      4163.0 63.0            0   0.4   1.4   U.0          .4    .4   a.0    A.    6.
is3) t349                                                "      I L -  27.   J .6 I9.   I3 .S 31 .; .ms m1 . 3 11.1  m31.1  2m.    1.1    1.1  i"9 t194   2.   1)9.1  239.1   m                      131.S  139.1
wtttp. .  S 4ad.S3.                                       g m 24  41.2   72.3  30.   343.   24.   34.   3.   "Lo.  M3                 l.   12.4   254        .4      0    142.4  ILo   103.4  343.    0.4   MA.o
~11
lit LOW                     -       -      -       7.2   22.0      4    7.4  344.2   32 L      0.4   94.4   94. 3t     .   340.   244.4   9.4   94.2  309.   l6.4  134.4    4.4   96.2  19.2   3. d i6.4
22l2 hI ,td  gp ett.                              4.0    4.4    4.0    4.0    4.4    4.0    4.6    4.0    4.0    4.4    4.0    4.4    4.0    4.0    4.4    4.0    4.4    4.4    4.0    4.0    4                 4.0
4   rm w  U*                 .       .      -       4.2  139.0    29.1     .L  I6    34    L.            .    03.4   9.    9.1   94S   0.7   03.4    4.4   93.1   11S    03.               1.4   9.4   9IJ    90S
.t#wqwtr  I hr w     t       -* i                   2      7.4  3IL.2   2.    3.    3.    34.4   12.2   31.4   34              .2    14.4   32.2   12.4   24.4   35.2   34.4   32.2   31.4   24.4   3.2   34.6
btti i iXh ue iXe e e~~~~-                         u. 2iL z. nt ib                               L U i. a-.. i         '^UlU.$ z  i- -*ii  -6;i'.-S U2. t; ti
149. 46sraq 6.1                 4.      4.0    4.4   I9.   232.0  12.2  49.    427444   4031.9  43.    29142.    5.   413.944. 43. 42. 414439440431063444 429
23. -1 Vml
tW" .3iw d tt_
.4tvy at0 to                                    23. -04.9  3199.0 2264   34I    tA .4              VL S 1VAt 2U1A   3410.0    1.  V 1  32i03.   1 312   4.0  2911.0 21.S   641 332.tt 4  34L# 21U
a3l hst  ti*1 4.                                          i 3    2t.0   44.0   17.3 . 2  19 .51  IL              t 1LI  .    42    1.1    .3  13.7   42.    44l.2   09.1              53 U 1   i 4.     A4.2   19.1
4333 &v U . uwo  141                               1      24.2   34.5 .1.49   46.        2.4   63.5   77.3  I3.4    .4 VA      .5   3.  1t73    S          34   6.1   6.    11.3    1.4    7.             3     61
S          6 w                 U.4    0.4    4.0   3.    3    233.1 tt46.3  2736U   24.  262.  263   22.0  29U.4  2 3  312.  242.3  2                       10.       1.  3.  22.1            .   90  3.            .
I.L Ill SWMI                  4SL   *-,44  41.4 144.1  262. 1      3t24.4 1201.4  034.1   39.2   Mt   1144.2   64.7 12249.5  296.  3919.9 3964.4 39W4.1 234. 12744.4  331.437.4  24   36    2234.  2304.
tam  b4j14 I23              A.  21.   1L.   '14.4  249.2
kmt  uvOtar I33           -              =3       35.4  14.   6t l         I t7.   30123.   ". 2       4
W           tfo   letfos 1l            r.0       3.3 t30.3 3)0.0        ^.  43.         S.51310 50           664A 
It 1110 il         f i      3 U 4L4    S3 t44,1 .31.  41.1    3. 3*1                                                  211.1t.  23121   I2. 9     33S3t  1.4 3921  22341    HIM. 311 744.4  3424.  2344.l  221.6 2334.
f.43y taw  of               LI4   0.4    4.         . 4.0  4O .0    LO6   4.0    L.4    LO    4                4.     C.0    46    4.4    4.0    44    4.4    4.O    4.4    4.4    LI4   4.0    4.              40
-uIIW   *.@   @ - lf  ¢. e                         .                         *.*.0  -. .   *.  @. .   . -.   1.-e..                         -I   *.....  *t  ;v ;
-u   iu                                                                        t 4 $lat    itoa 33i tW t wtq i   242t                   - - -
---                                               -.----42-wc-I i t902 d t * fr 5 temttltiu  432 -~ ~-~-~'- -                                                                              --
1/               2s3941  dmitap t meld 4    tCu 1 atm' 443                l b1, 6t4di."iit_ 
v                          SOA  c-h INIVTm istX 1 r 2. tl WN    C*$ is " rt * rt 4:0t "tt01t tnt§
Sf               ltrf        6t dq      ad  be i torrtot ft  ow  a too w    wriL
41              liuyi, tous ik. wIto p                Om aWe to 9w53ti64
1*.3.         t/ 34l64A   test O S d  liet Ie Eglqtj ttrlutwt  ecutyt .44*44   pumlt  trdlity.
U          Pov otm"eCq tt W Cu it d         Jm u""M eI a to Tite 327.
n1  4        t em of    u     . c ff s of cd ddal it   3t) t414.  ow         dit  tt e s _a   120111332 Il alr       t   oft    K   4w   toad to o. wdubdt, af 43i2a0 eJtasm  rtie r       ftb k rmw   t_t to tl. tdtt.
If Prices and Yilde from Anmex III Table 9 att Table 10
*t bil"W    at 1o sd s td a.
9/ glmit_dlr._6.Iultvettbplw.r t
W  1649446  dwpW' f        w.VF miq f4    U  1111*60t/Wit cla  coft ie 34*202.4 ipt AN Itt  oW  404443.
IIU nf^t_ b* Wm anl th ot  0WUCP              OO       rotO  lam  W1 7of  r 1t d toOtm   _ is  Ilidtoid S P*                    1m     rtdf      8tdu2      amo  Wre  ts  *e ow ly    o Irm  tW               hri
MU" td4d b0              OM  r& t r COW       r1" dn tl UW   Mn I    n  & a  1. 31. to Ms  t, nt b rt    It.
323.4 It   itW  f t_ddal .4  uptaI_  Isa, ftdly liar hauS 466 c tt^.
M  b_    "we__. U           %w WI It4S, ru  2V It   4 b     1VW 9 464  VW   2 446. ha  cod of   tete aW m fitt to 3m    t I.0. be 1_ lo".
I  Were tocw  tam of lit oft ftet.
rSt tlstt  the do ttuem e b_  om  dco  saffim in_s1 _                  r4 te  gag.. O     ebt Oea c  i to tm e3  tat.. be  bett adjusted by aiddng the ditffeaeta
betms rsue l ls  mad ddlta  debt setve t                      .       discount rates usad atm tbhe    etlOtad  in locl tlflatlosp  252 tlo  g9,. 153  for
1933  am41M  thetgdtet.



emE
amU i Wt2
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  - - ---- 
I"  wtw IM    lwtso I"0om Intts I"2n0 1901  Ild"IW%M     rt"YM sMOM  e    2Fes 2M12 awU UW4 2W/0 nW%U                                                                  2eSNW  20NItO J@AtIt
PllZ E110w It
"pn kwd_t                                 42t  -                                                                  3N                           tA- 
Vic. gummy              _ ad fqj  3"      I1 4             SP      42     ION      40      7S      7J      TSO    7M       7S1b    730    IN       I1      73     IN      7SD     IS      7       70    7b    ISb    730    IN
t         _ I i u t i tots   32   230   H    St  -    -                                    a    a    a5      a5 ff                 a    a    a    a    a    a    a    is   a    a    a    a 65
Wh fe 2wy              t                  2M   On-    2se t-  -  -                               WOe--       
F*i_ t adUU hcttnfr
_ tw       Am. ad Fim            25      In2     3 t      32       9    -0                        9-      go 9e                   90 se                                   0 se  se  e* se  se sgoese                      e      s
%MIe Md tr_"ot                    Lise     VI      w        S      409      a              310     se      3te    sl0      tt      Sao    3t*    310      no       SU     ne0    31u    Jte       se      2tO     3te     noe    u
1     St                       42      Ins     to       74      et      as      ae -          -       -       -       -                     
WtOtW                       HmS    let    sWs    2t3s    1351            1224  4s5       I"    ms    '1195    46"      1195     it"f    1IS5     tlss    *15     it"     ItS5     1195    4Hs     It"     it"5    ti   ItS5    it"
ftdCkl GNOP if  71                 U1      IN        4n7    tss    117    U22       U3     ue      373    t2         ue0    120    12e    12e    IN         413    t2e    t2e      12e        40  12e    INe      INe     INe    IN
btow   C*taSt _atu          l    474        11410     xts 2M     S 1468      1346    47St 1315       4      1315  5l^5 1315          1313    1313    1313    6730    t1     IUS      1313     lst IM    sa 1313     t313     Un t3ss 
Mddsttratitol  bh UssW4          11l5    litO     17       O              IU Mt           I=s MoX         IONe   1030 Ies         103e le3        ION IX s  U   e O Nt    tM3    ION    ltO  I=s    10se   Mos   Ie=     IMl    I=
PllAtim   1 1hu         4U       IU       tese    1415      se    76u      76s    76s    76s       765    765    765    763        76u    76S    ns3    n5        745     7ff    765    76        763     7U3    765    US        765
Plntaio -  en         dS t
-"Wt. bUlt. - LA            436      ue#    457    4e9    t6         n4      n       714     n1     n14     ns4    n4       n14     n4      71u     r.4    714       14     IN      n14    In       n4      714    IN        n1
We  46   4tl  302  W   IN  710   Ma Me Ml 715 l 785  Ms 7g   Me 7t   Ms 70 7|   M S                                                                                          Mw 7   ns   Ma n5t
-  ini.     79       05      M7     M9       Mt     434    4X4    434    434        431    434    436    434    B4          4st    434    434    434        434    434    434       431    434    43        434
q M            - LAW       27*              USe   4   2   W    BP4   64   on   on4  mN   84   54  t*   es4  IN4   84   IN   on4  am4  IN   of                                                               o as            In  s
Ar                          n7       s         17       97 S97         7      97      97    9St        7           97   97 t7                9   7   97      97      97      97      t7      VI       ? 97 9r 97     t        7
-4001t                     422       422    422    4Z2    422    42          422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    422    Z2
(w)i 9"
-ta                          39       39  st    st             9      39      St      39  ss          39       9  ss          3S  st   s9                    39sts 39        n       39      39      39      39      St e
-tot                         n        7e      70      70      7e      7e      7e      la      7e     7o      7e       7e     tO      tO      7e      te      74      la      70      7e      To      le      7*      7e      7e       Si
,' lt To_t of                                                                                                                                                                                                                            p-*
tww    om _  U1               t355      H"o    ta3       WO7    ma       7t      7|      76      7B      ma      7g      7B      7G     7G      7a       mg     7a      7t      7|      JG      7t      7"      7"5    7I       7et o    F
FatI - Unct C* U 
tal ob  f     _                2es 2"  248              41    6% e 6            6e6    t6           6    t 6    6e6     6t      6*       t 46    6 i     6U     64      6^6      W      6t      H t6        ^    ^      *   6    t 
al)  ers tvs2"                  m        20s V            n   5 e52              M9    102      IMs  142   1442   1U42   142            144 2    1442    12     14      142    1442   14 2    142    14t2    NO  U U    14z2I
ar iqct 61                   IS       147    157    Ull    249    2m          2se    StS    sts       sn      SU      s27     m       mV      mV      m2      m2     s27    327    s27    s27    s27    2m            m      32
WtO                        U4l    ON        6       62n    7110  755   nu   am                on   9   Zu411    wt41 "It 1  6et    outl 84t,           t      tll    t41i   "it         e411    outt    Sul    oU  04tt   Gott



Phrdcal Cotingencies7              664       9       636     63      712      756     774     100      B40     341     341     341      341     841     341      K41     "I    841        Pt      841     81      341     341 3t41         34
Total wrati Ct                    7305     763      754     6905    M330313  8m537    3M              9       9252    9252    9252    922    9252    9252    9          922    952    9252    9m2    9           9252    9252    9252    9252
IE IU~o
S1e of toffee                     7744     7?    il27         62   12474   13       14520   15132   15744   1356     1656   1         16     1635    16356   165    I          163     15    I3         16356        1   166        56   163
Prtoese of Coffee fwr
cum ar   1r                       90       s       210     270     360     540      Bo4    1200    too      100    1ow       300    1300    13wo      30o0  I1oo    3300    1800    130    1300    180    130    3i30    16              300
Si   oIeshz                          3      93       980"    93      930              93      9w   980         93                       9 9      39      93      98 9     84     90      9        9 3   93        93      93       98      in
leof 5be                           22       202      202     202     202      202     2    2 D 202     202     202     202     202      2       202     202      20M     202     2       2        202     202    2M2       2e2     202     202
Totl lew a                        9024     8713    9227   10522   14024   1547    14550   17522   1873    19346   194    19346   194    194    1946   9934    1934    194    194    194    194    1934    19346   19346   1934
11 bklls a  stUa            capital _It tre  fro  F1t93S    - FY I92M w3 iw   Table 3.
21 lelod_p t p1uma  &depnt cost tols an dailed  in irkla  Par
3  h1 p 501 of etln  ted apor_s po       et ha  m        icele  in capital   pedtrs. The rainder ha  bm  csidered warr operating expedlituer
4  Etetited am the bds *f ZMM's budget for FY 19 7 ad five yew  cuh fl   projetios. Cots of tachical ni*stue, cemecinA  ep 1936, ad trainlag ctr hAve hm  ade. It hs ba                                          that
overhead coats  scIadingtechaical esstcu  ald decre   to rea  twos for thre  cosKctinv  yes at 5  ually coftiet with FTS93/33.
sr Ca ltede   a  the Iner of cts aad pwate  detaild is losrkia  PaWrs.
U  Nbrkstia  costs  ve  em   tid  a  at 22ef the sal  vale of coffee. Cots do out irecle    troprt   penditwur  of clm  hems, a rage  free coffe sae  have bm   calculated a the bais of ex-fe ea                               price.
I the pleased     bi aHa Coffe 1rows   A atie    re   with ZCCL that the lattr sold catie bodling all coffe  exports, whetting cot wud ha   to be increased.  e                         s w d the  alw he hir b  the m              ot of
mawetin  fees colleted by  =   for carrying eat this _eposibility.
71 thical cUeet in u    s     bhav     e timte  at 10? of es*t ted capital  Wd   erwtial eapeitwe  eCept for plaotAtior dvIopOt costs.
/ Calculted  a  the basis of nste d a-factory ad f*reat  price  ad crop prdctios astiests, prested in lortirg Paprs  lum  froe  procsing coffee for eher   ors has b     forecast taking tioto  ctont etced
coffee prodKtia fre  existig plantatios ad proJect pletits I_  table I  nd Vortieg Papers) ad assiog a proceiag chr   of 1 600 per tee of clea  coffee.
f `F



mM CIFFE
Ziam  Caffs cs ULtd (Ci
e ad C  Flu. Onlosds
li ti p K F
(is casuIst 1914 Kso)
193W17  19/UII  11 1  I3D  19190I/ 1199 2 1919  t                      m94  1MM    /   199/7 197     19919 11       9t9 /   200001 20002 20 0  2000  2M04105 20504 20o07  207/U  20                      201  2010211
t.t
lam_ Mere  epreciauim,
Pim     l Cat O  T          1uss 1  1       1029    1473    317        194    7325       012    371S    9"4S   104   l09    1009    1S9    t009    1004    1O09    lO0                its0    19    tO1         0       10094   104   10094   10
h dp   atl. 2                     -199      -30      -3250   -324   -3510   -3393   -3329   -2414   -321   -2521   -2521                   -2521   -2521   -2521   -26        -2621   -2621   -232    -2621   -24        -2621   -2       -24      -221
Flemlal cost
-  iustiq hrriN           31     -1I4      -1m      -344  -1652   -143    -1223   -3009    -49    -42    -                  40    -53    -7    -42u   -374    -323    -262    -25    -24U    -244    -244    -244    -2U                  -244    -24U
- _  snrudep  4U                  -         -311   -1069   -I14   -12   -15    -157   -102   -1224   -2051    -874    -701    -2                    -5      -175                      -                                  -      0 - -17
-laflatlma. Ujetes  of
NIt'U, br vca                   -          493    1042    1245       411    1731    1131    1420    184    I27    1544    153            1500    3465    1401       63       09      322      209      212     215      213      22      223      225
bic     k ra lou                  -1921    -378    -3        -IM        6f7    2733    39    5422    i            743    781    7394    60*    6247    8425    7777    7800    7530    7                 743     742    745    744          4       7
a_s 4/1                                                       -                                  -       -2304   -2445   -2313   -274    -2032   -2t93   -2          -2722   -27M    -243    -243   -2S         -2       -240    -24      -207   -2S$
I    . Aftr Tl                    -92       -37i -3            -         97    2739    379    4441    4279    463B    4993    5132             9    5        5476      005     50 S    469      46       435    437    4839    4341    42    4
It.   FLU RUI 6.Sl
Ca  Fo Fltlwrau        tF 11       1719      12       16      367    419        735    8012    871t     945   1009    1004   100           3009    1009    3004   2009    100    I0           1004   30094   1009    10094   109    1009    10094
tqital beedite            71      -1474  -A 3    - 4   -2M            -1460   -1344    -43   -1315   -4          -1315   -5145   -1315   -1315   -131    -1315   -4738   -13 13           5 -1S  31    -51685    13    -13      15   -1     335   -t315
3spymet of luista   Laos          -310       -370   -1263   -1263   -1264   -12A3   -1263    -4           -4      -443    -4        -4      -4       -4       -4      -4       -4       -121             -        -                -       -        -
flacdla  Cat of Euistliq
iveap  3/                       -1644     -Im      -3844  -142   -1433   -1223   -39    -4"             -652    -404    -         -513    -47    -421    -374    -3          -28    -245    -244    -244    -244    -244    -244    -2U6    -244
ltu ttiUm  0AJ.t_t of hti
we        iaf  ksistiag Lam  S/    -          472      952    1072    1149        6      1192     "I4       77        7     692  b1          k81      669      45  63    2 6     0S 9    m       209      212      215     21B      221      223     225 5
w a                                -         -                         -        -                -931   -2304   -2305   -26        -274   -2632   -2393   -294    -2722   -2730   -245   -U23   -2604   -255  -246   -2607   -2607   -2603
Cepital -   cl. camb            -1259      -        -       -        -        -       -        -        .       _                 _       _        .       _                         _        _                _        _        _       _        _ -  - 
Cas  CoNtribstle lfamliog
ebWru.ts.)                      -4       -12271        2    -519    3173    4679       45    120    2           573    1909    5        6    9    5770    5445       475    1913    660    6140    2292          144    6146      147    6149    610
-Iet   IreteP      t ud  ls of Cas  Flu. 3ef e  Ftuciug  (to rea  tomn, diKoat fator 622s  lcKb    15567 



b0Mi Fleaktifgs
- WEqity  rei         9/       2 U   700    40          301    -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -
-OuLas41                       222      5U    331    1402   -          -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -
- am    ri  4/
tl) LOW bpmt               -           -               -          -1253 -1251 -12 51 -125t  -1251  - 1251  -1251  -125i  -1251  -125t   -                -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -
"it btaet bE_..             -        -311  -t6    -15    -75   -115   -15377  -101   -12    -1051    - 1  -701   -5                -      -175    -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -
110lwildt. fulstati.   -                20     90    173    23          5            75      ON       W      02             32      791    7"    -
lbt CIA nu  to                  -        -       -       -       13   2271    41    42           90    4330      34   4        4751   m5    4B    475   593   6080   6t1     2292   6144   6141   4347   114    11
--  h at gala of Cash nowf tar fisng 10W (in ree  tirat discot fatw   l   KlUa  1SM                      --
IU       M an su d  a_tu    uzputm   fr Table 1.
2J _emi a      's W r t dur itm plicy, the Ft1U/   udpt 4    pectd capital epadtwuereplateeate f prsWAtd in Tabe 16.
31 Ne  a repamt   1hMe  ad istret rats  f ZCCl's esistiog hurreuug  tocludiag the I1a rKetlp euwtim i by ft"lqpat kgtof  Zubia. All e"sItg la   we dommisated is lus. I te  Hiual cot of nistieg
tun we iscidutr als h    cn", Sumat ley so shAve capital .6 4s dw                         by IbIPEII fr proidile  lm  pwatte     hu latter we 33 p.a. of the want gsawAed  it is tspctd  tht sad   watau    w"a  be
rn"U  eutil mP134
4 1    lua t  mli dh espeed to be tou fi p corr a ad cwrry a i*terat rat of i.t 142 p.s. Loe  aod bp  a grace Wiod df abut five years. priacipa  repaysat. lime _td he a yrm  prid a  interet.
Eqeyeut d prcpd    eU  be owr te  yes foIlloing the isitil grm  period.
St Slft ti  dIfec  bet.... Mt wuce is saee ad real teres. NU rvce payets km he  cweeted from iu a  to rel twe by diec.ating the  Dee    paysmot  by the applicabl ifletion factose. Fcr 1uci
_emeeu  dot the fell"tug estlted lecu  rate.f ilatis har bhs   plied  251 hr 147W  15 for 13;  d 102 threfter. Fr lom  d iutd i fweip awrrcin  the 4ollteip etetd istratisul irflatie
rates ha  ie  md r H K ictiP 731. 1is           ad 191131U il,          t i er Ys_
Ut C    lted    a the hasis of the pwnt tue retnt 32   profits   r    etcting my l_  carried farud.
7/ Fre Table 1I
IV CIao    is urt     capital in Ff195/  a forecast is ZCC us b_t for the cwrret yar. Ie fattir  wrtiug capital chd_s hm  bi   asemd for _sbequent yes.
9/Euitty prwiisiess he irs  esla           at maI Wici mid be adequate for ustiintag a satiefatory OtMeuty ratio. Is 2CC's caw it    d aper that e_der tree    c_atems at lent 40 of capital rqir-
shuld be pried is to ore ef euity.
101 1i  catalatim trets eqity ctrhtuieo  a coo otfl..
Io _ F



7"1*
zaCFa
1.6i Coils Coqay Usited (MCCL)
ProJ  cti lae        ihwt
Mith Project
(in caslat 193  K'0001
10/    19617 197811    l3/    11990 199 1M IM/92 1 M279319S4 194/95 19596 197  2997191 1fflJ9 1999100 20001 2001102 2002/03 200/04 200A/O5 2005/06 2W0007 2D07N08  200/09  2009110
Estt  hel_ut                      SW        64      6994    7t9        163    S6    84          34     8343    3         3      g        3       3       O       3          4     38        3        4       4
IJi no kildiap  11                9940      77    10514 U  tl13    12212   11971   1173    41143    11246   11007  t10         10525t  1024   10043    9302    9l    932          9079    l33 3M     7    3354    31S    7374        763      7392
MN1t, bebliey Od
t l  1I                         7370     6692   1418   15273        3 I33    1228   1O62      762    7922    9739      774   114      1093    9727    8762    77%    12154   1I13    1=           97   11742   10476    91           4515   743
Pit PO iKti E       ditre         355E     310    220    2140         1160    1IE0     700      20    -        -
Ttl Fis    ets                   24        O910   34317   34901    35768   33717   31470   2331t   27517   29094   27837   30531   293          23113   26911   25    29321   28515   27203   2902   245   27139   2582    242               23219
c et  Sate                         9         021    2021    1021      1021    2704    495    9291   1331  S43i  1U4   192V     23394   2445    3510   33478   353                    6   504      573    5377   65521   7167    77315    W
t    u tU* iUu                    17 3       537     5       5n37      5       537      57      5S7     537      537     5353    737      5St    5S7      53       5       5S7 5UT          5S7     57      557      537     SS7      57        537 
lb  lbkiag Cital                 -775       484     484     464       484    21U     44331    754   i273    13749   1399   137    23357   210    3297    37"91    3416   44329    40    559   5W0    4l4   71130    M78    347                                  3
ET                               25655    29    30 5 7335    34252 3M            5   36106    7573    402     4263   45936   49264   5282   5622    594 6S 346   68233   72344   77U17   620  8726   922    99                     1013    0
am  coital It                    l19S2     13924   20924   242       25426   2 254   25       25      22    M4         242     242    2524   2542    2542   25s24   25424   25426   252    25              542    254       242     254      2O
inl_at   Profits                   723    -1193   -4977   -340   -10232   -95        -7   -2613    1122   U601   10939   1592   21064   2632    316S6   37172   42227  4727   529    57024    140   64697   75s7    7377    3122
TOt  Eqety                       12254   1273    159        1U       13529 1 6091   13329   2233   27208   31527   36365   41U5    40    51749    7122              9    475n   7273   77417    24          2     92121   94923   10110    16
L    Tom      _        It        13001    13642  III2   20919    21203    197"   17279   14765   13050   11336    921    790             4192    447     27U2    I4        515     121    -        -           -        -        -             -            .
TUT  Uil    tIIIMI lt            2565    2434    M31         5       3422   335   34103   3757          2     4*234    45      49244   52U82   562    594   63U          682     72A4   77U17   32450   97234   92123   9643   101303           t 10664
lit a I o  TOtalt ptail             S         52      54      56        a       55      46       39      32       26      21      14       12       6       5        2       1 -          -        -       -       -        -        -         -
tU Ie bnam  st  prWee           in the s*o   Te  4or te ye   uag Norb 31, I9863t I*     as the o   forecast by MI ia  Its carroat yew boe, after no  adjosteite  The vale   of bet dlap  ad of plamt ad eaKiey hm
hm  i_rei by 1 2.01 sillie   ad1. 1.54 eittlio  resptively to acost ti  for CiVil works costreitos fcr  id  COttrcbt haVe alrea   bM  aew'edan  iwa mark  ii  prrss ta   dil far eahlry ud  qipmt
orich hv  urey hm  promtred bet we ee  yet recdd in the Cepany's boeks. Rowicg of tbm   utrs ha  be   wssnd to he prided by Ull the K 3.0 sullio  losa recietly uationd by lwrelp t kt  of Zambia,
as til 11  0.35 dillts  aitiad ewity fts free ZIUIIN1D.



3-Ia
Zm6f  Cffie C       ipy LiUited (ZMC)
tcrmtall Capita  tipaittres, OpErstlq  uspmdtvn  vA                  _
With Project
(is csin    193  K1000)
19/U       97/U  1"913     19171W  19/1  91/m92  1 / 3 19934 1949  199/9 19/97 I9713  MI3   t919 00 2000101 21/2 20203 203    20105 2005/   20607 20071/0  20/9 200910 2010/11
_pBT    11
Pniutau    bhimst 2                  w          4      so       34       135    -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Irriltdi     u       st             - lp     4300    -         -       -        -                 -        -       -                 -       -        -        -       -        -0
rc. U'1um-  -  IWp .                 27       1134     22       20       29       1b      132      440      40      440      440      440     440      440      440      440     440      440      40      440      40A      40      40       44       40
u I          in wprad Tools            0       132       S9        0-            -       -          35       35       35      35       35       35      35       35       31       35      35       35       35      35       31       35      31       35
eh  Frwy                              40      2ees    2675      259      15    -         -        -         400    -        -        -                                   s5     -        -        - 5                                        -
Itf f     h"                        -          U      1470    5s        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
q0_*m ad FtilSiUn kr
h ral  We. &uiFImm                   0       137     235        0       25 -           -          60       60      f0        e       60        0 t    60       is       60      b0                 0       0        e       60      60       60       60
"1i      adtr_mt9rt                   7        2s 4A              0      3          0 -            20       1O      U O      10       10       100     160      100      10      t10      1e       130      t0      180      to       1        o       10
Wu St                         42       193      10o      74       31       35 30
-t1                           124       9179    4631    1625    1133        205      163     725      1IS      725    4225      715      715      715     715    2305       715      715     715    4215       71n     715      725      715      715
Fpbcuis  CmUq ciu n                   44       93      405      104       95       21      1        72      112       72     422       72        2      72       72      132      72       72       72     422       72       7        72      72       72
TtaOM   1w , Citl E_ud              2290    10562    S         1729    2223      226      179      737    1227      77    4637        M        777     767      737    1436      77       737      7M7    463       737      M       7n7      737      7s7
1 ~UT. WUUst
mimlatium  Mvuka) 4/                 310      270      230      I90      19"      190     19      -120    -120    420    -120    -120    -20    -120    -120    -120    -120    -120    -120    -£20    -120    -120    -120    -120    -120
fletatiu  hw*mis 41                  3n5       990     525      -10    -235    -135    -135    -135    -13S    -13          -135    -131    -£35    -135    -135    -£35    -135    -135    -135    -135    -135    -21             -235    -131    -13S
Pw *tatim  -   Iret Cst 5/
ti Caefo
-14t.  hint. - Lw            -101       -6       -60     -43      1        177      177      1       £77  177          277     177      177      177     177      177      177      177     1        177      177     177      177      177      177
- lwst   -101t          -       -35     -         173     243      243      248      24S 243          248      243      243     24       243      248     248      243      26      24         8 24   243      243     243      243
- Irriv .     -1£      -22       181     200      295      337     337      37       337     3        337    3S7        337     337        7      337     337      37       337     337      3S7      SS7     337      337      St7
-So    tin  - Lab            - r16                6      221      440      493      493     493      493      493      44 4n 493                 49S 493          493      493      493     49       49      4        493      49       493     493
11112 lap                          -         -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        _       _        _        _       _        _        _        _       _        _        _  -
Vactu-y hubeeb hi                  430       47      42       -55    -140    -1*0   -£40    -140    -£40    -£40    -£40    -240    -140    -140    -140    -140    -140    -240    -140                -140    -240    -140    -140    -140    -1*b
F t- r - Direct cat Si
0i)ht Frncandiq                  -           12       S0      167     333       7       373      373     373       7       373     37       373       7       33      37       3        373 m            3        3       37       37      3m        373
tiII Dry Procssioq                 -50       -62      -62      -22       34      65      154      257     512      512      512     512      512      512     512      52       512     522      $12      512      512     512      512      512     5t2
mbtiag CosthI                       -            7      25       69      137      16t     161      175    1U2        189     159      189      19      189       6       139      189     189      159      19      1IS      189      t       t 159    t9
9M-Tal                       1334      2563    1314       672    1437    1749    1665    164    192          2934      934    194    2934    194    2934    294    1934    294    24    1934    14    1934    194    1%4    1934



fasicel Cotingu lesi I7            133      t56     131      67      144     17     1U7      166     193      193     193     193     193     193     193      193     193     193     193     193     293     193      293     193     193
Tol IKr. Owat1a  Cost             1467     1719    1445     739    1580    194S    2052   1I31    2120    2128    2129    2129    2129    212B    2128    2129    2128    2129    2129    212            8 228    2128    2128   212B    2128
Sate of Cofe                     -          351    1233    3441    6853   B9A0   8382    8735    08         944     94       9441    944     9441    9441      4     94      94l        4 N41    941 4        94 41 9l          41    9441
Prcesin  of Coffee for
Ithwrbsrrs                     -         -       -       -       -          60     240     450    9S0    S00       se0 o    0       990     900     900     900     900     900 so0          900     900    900      900     900    S00
Sale oF bize                     -         -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
IaleoflIb                        -         -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -
TOWlaru.ow   _                   -          351    1233    3441    63    OM         322    9185    9998   10341   10341   10341   1034      1   10341 1034  1   11   034    10341   10341   10341   10341  10341   10341   10341   1041 
TA1M11 1  F1113 9             -2758   -1190    -524       973    4          ?    6        6567     62    742         7    742      742     742     7427    6778    7427    7427    7427    357      7427    7427    742     7427     427
--i- -s                            c     l    a     l  Re of btwr on lcrsutal luvet_t fBefore Tazs ad Flsoocliat                    21 2
1/ Details a  etat   capital epdtit    from FPIS9Bt - FY 1M9293 ae ia Tale T              . 1 c tre      capital etspWitrs hav hm  cdcatod after ecting costs as iso ted oith the replacmt of vhicle, qi_pet *ec.
U Dvllisp t pls for the with   d withut prjet slteatios, sad dvlapet cost totals fwr the with project scsari  WSe to htbe Rrti  Papers.
3t SU0  of etiatd  pow     procinent hav   m  etiasted to he increota  are  iclde  I. caital  bpeauitres. b. reider  a hem  ciderid wdr aperating eupediturs.
41 bud cots is the witot project siteatsio  he hm    tated an th  heas of  MCt's Wegit for Fr 1                   7 ad fivue per cash flee projectio. Cost of teceicd  asstan, comaicq lby 1986, and traising coost
hv  hm  ade  i  the with project scori. It L- hm  a_ssn  tat is the with project sitatia  oven                  costs    uld   techelcal astuce aold drea    rea  trn for thr   ce tivn pM   at 52- Iu                     ly 
ceI_q with F17U.
5t  1o     ta  diret cstse   hw b       a lculaed a the hds of costs and pmutes dtailed in the O1king Paws.
6  Norking cute  hv         soUste  at 22 of the sal  vau  of th  iac            Ul asmat of coffee produced ih the with p       brjest statit o. (TIe 22 de not iKilud  trort   p itrsn of tie             , as    na  fre
coffe s    hvlas       calcltated as thle bsis of as-4etory prices.) If the plau  led     bil, CoFFe  hours  ssiation agre  wdth ZCI that the latter should cstle   ha dial coffe  eports, a                   iti  costs aId
atem to he lrse.   I   s  e            hy 202 aed the   a   he bigh    r by the       I of drtetg fm  colltie  by the Co s for ewrying ot this resposibility.
?t  hysdcal casti         he  on etatUed  at 10 of etiastd   caetal caital Ad Operating aspudtwrescapt for cots of plattio  development.
U Calcalated e  th  hls of oatd a-fatory ad felste price  ad   rartra     crp podt ion ette  daer_ivW  free the Wtir tfrob    prent   io the   riog Papers.lcrstal r-ae  fm  procesi  coffe  for othr
gremmr ha  am  forwea   takl  lute trt  t  i) a dted coffe  rodcion free distig platatim  ad prjet plating, ad tii) the m                          t of coffe  that 2CCL could p        in the with Sd witlot proect
situtiee e_ TAle I ad  rn    apn), ad  "aiin   a procden  chp of I  6   per tee of dee. ccffee.
91   eemtad  resu   ss   incAsta  caita  aed  epratie, epdtars
I%c  t4
toI- -N
S. -
rh iHs



lad CORw SEZ{
U-   _~~n
Imia, Coffee Cuspuy Uuitof (*ML)
lucreeuutal     M tato.   Cash no
Kith Project
(in cusat 1936 10000
1t63   tw13/ll             190919  1990s1o   I9m  1992/15        19n9/        MU4/M551    9 1997/19           1      20e02          2 2        200/04 26405 2005/0              20 07105 200/0  20110 2t1
1. ME  Mw  pu
Fl_ dci CMt a9  Taos 1    -1467    -13H   -                27       53    4143    6?         7354    73      3214    3214    3214    0214    0214    3214    121          1 0 214   32 14    321 4               324    31        324    S4
- bl6 Iq  hrrutim, 2V            -126        =    -1      -XS   -          -       -140    -|    -11    A-11  -113   --               -       -        -     1         -Ml  -12        -121   -121   -  1    -           -t      -12t   -l2t
twill_ flsdA tut
- be Ivrouiqs 4/                 -         -24     -0     -t49%   -114t   -32   -1213   -11%4   -911    -3M           -6%     -nu     -418    -273    -1
- bftls tilJutist of
lbrt yic   V                   -           U16      2     162      240      S      52       643     678     69       704     67      6n       64      60    -
lu s  Ius bE. tam                -1593    - 23    -2535    -103    2324    3751    4450     5977    4f4t    6O94       7       7        344      454    7553      63     693    3        6933    6933 6    911   6933    63        69S     63
l1_is  Tn                         -         -       -       -        -       -       -        911    -04    -20         -25   -264   -2832   -3M9    -2W9   -2722   -2730   -2431   -2467   -2444   -2444   -2444   -2444  -2444   -2444
IILA ll.ius Atsr Tas             -53    -2732   -2Z5O     -183    2324    375        4450    4396    4137    4341    4402    4460    4512    45e   46           4261    4W       4347    4516   4539    4539    4139    4539    453        453
It. OM  ADU  MI5lS
Incrotal cas FlRON Fre
Iiwatimn I/                    -1467    -1369    -212    2702    sm        6143    6570    7354    736      3214    3214    B214    24        3214    5214    8214    B214    B214    8214    3214    8214    S214    8214    8214    B214
Icri.  apital El      l. 7'      -120   -10531   -50O6   -172S   -1223    -226    -179    -707   -1227    -737   -467    -B            -7       -707   -737   -1436    -737    -737    -737   -437    -787    -737    -77    -7            -
[acm. 311ss. Of EtXist. Loe    -           -        -       -        - _   _   _   _   _   _   _   ,   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
Wren. Fisciai Cst of
Maine g brrAop 3t               -         -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -                _               _        _       _       _
la1rs. Idleftis  djust. Of                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -U'.'
Det WV. for E ist. LOt    S/   -            -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -                -       -       -        -       -       -              *
is. Ton                                     -       -       -        -       -       -        -991   -2304   -2605   -261    -2764   -2332  -2B39   -2949   -2722   -2730   -264   -2467  -2444   -2444   -2444   -2444   -2444   -2444
lw1i. beres   lscess  in
lIaing Cap. - ncl. cu   3/  -             -       -       -        -       -       -        - Of-                    _       _       -        _       _       _        _       _       -        _       ,       _        _       ,       ,           .'
lucius  Cah Cetwrkhstiusi
Vashg  qnalrs ts)              -27      -2950   -5243      9      4045    5917    639l    SW6    43        4i22     3       464    45S    4534    4479    4057    4647    479         491    1133    4933   49         49       493    493
----U u       acial   at. of Roth   on uloiotal lanvtat i*fter Tuu ,                 e FiaR.emt       17 1-



bdr Fis         Fracle,:100            b
-              z  laree I4lt frssm9      e 49  0                                                         -  -  -  -  -  -      -      -       -           - *  *  *   .
-  ie           LoU  4*        173      551    332        5    -3060    -       -              -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -    .       .       .       .       _       .         .      _ 
Ioecen, bit Lorwc 4/
11) Low laase                                                      -9m4   -44    44    44    494    494    49               9                                         -                                          -      - -  -
liI) latwut _aps.                    -24A  -103   -3*3   -1351   -1392   -123   -1114   -9M          -35    4       -557    438    -273   -1       -               - 
LU)  Ast. far laflatm    -              *6     82      362    240    53       592    64       678    6        704    697    679        9    610   - 
lwetl  XCab Flua to RCCL            -    419    14    -          UN     453      m      41t   lOP    39          -991       3082   RIO   355   4057   497   P                    1    1t3    493   493    46         49      43
-        f     t      s         e        c       i       a       l     late of Utters n toutal ltet  (After Tae ed Fitedr qlit    32
it Ieahtai rs-. aimsiscrasaalopeati,  pu.dtuasfree laia 19.
27   _d  a  M's prut    dpreciation plicy, th  MOMW  bit    wA  pcd    iKsata  capitd  p_                 tta*nrul nuots a petd                Table 19.
31 tpayen   scJes  i Iaoat rad                  's existing boml.p incladblg tb  o   r1cMtly uKitiusd bY leladpt   b Of hIe me3  be the So                      til bothte with  d   itA t  pojEct Statliis
41 a bat the aith ad uita    oJut siftesls  e  los maid ke axpected to he is fareip cwrsca  ad earl a iatret  teto of about 143 p.s. Lom  mid bm  a pacs pwiod of about fiyw                            e priKpa  rapaysyt.
There   l ba s  pae pru wiod G  ltdst. _payemt d pricip   meld he over te  Van fattied   th  ialtial grae   trid.
5V isflads the tiffa      betwa  irubmtal Mt jQ wice is eaal J4 rmdterm. lcratd debt service pay5ets bme ba  cortd fro  oal to rami tam by dis tia, the amue"vla ts by the appicab
iSIatie facts  Fm' 1K1& imMlt  OMt the file,estimuted locd rats d oillit                       1 ba  hw aplieds =  fw   97; IS for I3; ad  tharaf t        tr. Fir loss denoioated is forig  cerratin  the fo oliesi
atiea  international lfiatus rate  b m    mad fwr discostiap n  isbsw                 19  4at saawuJe t years.
6U  CaIlta1 e th edls Of t  preset tax rad            of = rofits after dtia       y M osI   carried forsrd                                                                                                                                    C
71 frm  1*1  19. 
I/ Chp is eag capital is FVIlt              n foeat in  Crs bodpot fw  thecrrt yer 'an hem  "smesd to he th  -m  is the  itb .A mithout project sitatim.   4 frt her wki  capital ib,s add
he espatid dW aIs as  years.
91  qdty praisms b1  ba  ntiatd at _ntb  aidc add he _*aqua  for uai tadihu  * satisftory Idithqty ratio la o  the with ad witht project situties    toIM's ca  it med aW    that  _   paset
uditio   at les        a f long tar cpital raqirsts shoiud be provided is the fore of qity. to the sit projet sitatil  this med rtaqire eqity prosue  of ab    1 2 milliotn,  7 ailie, 1 4 million  d
1 0.5 siIti  is P      V9 P     TAIG, 9 9               F1. W4 P11990 rpoctiely. Far the witht pojct sitoatios the  iqty previsiona ba  hm  as      at K I eillioa brie, sh of toe firt tre  yaS,
ad1 0.5 LIdllioe brie, P19W9e.
1W tbe caletie 0aets i esta    eqity coutrihtim   a caO  oetfl.
t.1^



MM6810116 169  ?MC,iS462
(2   1000)
I       2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9      to       is      It       is      14       is      16      17       so      is9     20       21      22      27       4      25       26      207     20       29      30
w~~inmis1I   ~~~40                  12       19      312      361     329      311     313     311      311     311      311     31       us3    311      311      its     sit     311      311       -        -      -        -       -       -       -        -       - 
~su m 3                  t            904     so       53      163      13      134      93      304     346       93          93  a393             9        9      346      346      9        1      9        93      93      93     346      346     9   93           93  93           93
mir             cowml           m       1M   i              -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -                                                                                               
mism       ~ ~~M mi  3/        *le       64    UR3    jM         P"A      96       61    132    132         "I1    661      65       661     61       6"I    1 13     1365     661     46  66     11   6  6      66     66     136      132      66      66      66       "1      661
gm -   m      WMM  3/              291      16    4664   2104    3011   2V7    14 1          13144    SO1    60        692    iM        66       32      SW6    441       364     39      2        471     744      07    an1    660        167        -       -                     
*  p m      iiim    miOS  /             -       -        -     10    I=        399     ISO2   13M5   1922    2306    2358   23*    23059   2260   2365    2379    2368    2365    22960   21010   2379    234w   m3g5   226    2363    2,4    2340    nMi     2Me     2ia
mimi          1 I IS I 451        -        -       -       5  37        754    125         MO    395    4630    491         4J64    4623    296      4%90    SO4    460    4623    406         496     5041    04   465         4569    496     5041     4 46 4          4569    497
mm   1246.m 461                      94   1539    1977    MU5    333    330           2609    311      3026    3356    3648    3763    3822    3242    3515        =7    340I              M350    3070   3703    37477  M6M     3591   M19     293     2910    243    209    2937
FOS iiniO . EffieS-                                           1174    591    I503    3207    SW90    962   MO01102420  MM30    9532               43 00          103950IN   I030 9OM       9425   102455  10395   10O30   9532    94253 O 1024M510030                9453  19245   303
Mm46 111T.L IWI?                        -       -             1174    SW1   193     3107       WV0    0032   9515  101420  16030    9MM2   945   10245   109M   0460    95=2    953  1024   10395   10020   953                     9425   I024   14030    95         942s  10250  303M
TM86 197N0 . 01 863523             -9514  -1532  -1977   -2460   -27310  -1 4    5274   2476   50112   6195    6493    65a6   60100   61024   6733   6060    6629    6279    62751   70                     46924   634  WM37    5033    7051    7071    6226   61     74172   7407
I/ retimated at 1.51 of the outstanding balance of loans to tarsers to cover administration and supervision by bank,.
I/ Only 502 of Increisetal costs have beeni Included.
3/ Three per cent duties end taxes have been assumad and thus eicluded from economic analysis.
W/   00arketing costs were  estimated  at  1.51  of value of production.                                                                                          ireesei basu  of Sate,. .9 Net St.ee
Net. Total              23.543
$11m          118 610   6   102
tl452,09201   59,65103            -42572
Cost Total    259,651,03   452,09.02)              74.=2
Not P,e*wA  alwe at =  102 * 192.441
!nta,s1 Met of Return * 21.50
lowe, fwissvlset RAOeat Satues * I9.1



- 87 -
AM tIII
Table 22
corS It PROJICT
INTWE . RATES OF RETUM  W KlT STREWMS
TOT      UP 102     U202        UP 5      _D IOW 10       0 DOWAl O 06   54Z LAO I YER LAO 2 YEM   LAB 3 YE
CTOT             23.538     25.685      28.0S      33.759      20.971     18.123      6.347      19*258     16,242      14.00S
UP 102           21.215     23.538      25.679     31.295      18.666     15.821      3.603      17,347     14.616      12.508
UP 202           19.109     21,416      23.538     29.062      16.565     13.70       0.791      15.406     13.129      11.m
UP 502           13.706     16.021      18*123     23,538      11.103      8.065    -10.623      11.104      9.275       7.931
iRE 1O0          26.134     28.515      30.720     36.535     23.538      20.670      9.149      21.382     18.044      1S.M
U0  20X          29,082     31.508      33.759     39.707     26.442      23.538     12.119      23.7       20.006      17.325
NW 50            41.478     44.18       46615      53.190     38.599      35.453     23.538      33.690     26,347      24.446
LAO 1 YEA                                    -          -          -           -          -      23.538     19.258      16.242
LAO 2 YEARS           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -     23.538      19.25B
LAB 3 YEARS                                                                                                      -      23.5t8



- 88 -                          NNXIII
Table 23
i~~ I          I s  1             H1   5 
p~~ I             A  I1S1       §5 i        -
R I    { F it!   3!    §~~~~~~~~~~~~ §fi!  .
-                                                   I  1{ 6 ni!3       
i   I iw i1  l i; !              I    1             HS!   !§   !f i L     
; !    ! ! a!i  2!      ~~~~i !fi    I  *'
-  I  I         '  I; !   i%         I      ' I!     -  
;!~~~~~                         i  S!!n:!!i   | 
:!  S E t~!2  i!x-      §   !fl!      I ;
I!    g                                 M 9!   !!g 1



- 89 -                       ANNex III
-                                      -9- 
Table 24
SECOND COFVE PROJ eCT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements b/
Cumulative
Fiscal Year and                                                 X Disburse
Quarter (Ending on          Disbursements        Cumulative    Perennial Crops
dates indicated)        Qua7rterilrumuative   X Disbursed   Profile
--(US$ million)--
PY 1987
September 30, 1986       0.0 a/        0.0           0
December 31, 1986         0.4 a/        0.4           2                 -
March 31, 1987           0.4 a/        0.8           4                  0
June 30, 1987             0.2 a/        1.0           5
FY 1988
September 30, 1987       0.2            1.2          6                  1
December 31, 1987         0.4           1.6           8                 -
March 31, 1988           0.4            2.0         10                  5
June 30, 1988             0.4           2.4          12                 -
FY 1989
September 30, 1988       0.4            2.8         14                 13
December 31, 1988         0.6           3.4          17                 -
March 31, 1989           0.6           4.0          20                 20
June 30, 1989             0.6           4.6          23                 -
FY 1990
September 30, 1989       0.8           5.4          27                 27
December 31, 1989         0.8           6.2          31                 -
March 31, 1990           0.8            7.0         35                 34
June 30, 1990             0.8           7.8          39                 -
FY 1991
September 30, 1990       0.8           8.6          43                 41
December 31, 1990         1.0           9.6         48                  -
March 31, 1991            1.0         10.6          53                 47
June 30, 1991             1.0          11.6         58                  -
FY 1992
September 30, 1991       0.8           12.4         62                .54
December 31, 1991         0.8          13.2         66                  -
March 31, 1992           0.6           13.8         69                 61
June 30, 1992             0.6          14.4          72                 -
PY 1993
September 30, 1992       0.6          15.0          75                 73
December 31, 1992        0.6           15.6         78                  -
March 31, 1993           0.6          16.2          81                 78
June 30, 1993            0.6           16.8         84                  -
FY 1994
September 30, 1993       0.6          17.4          87                 83
December 31, 1993         0.6          18.0         90                  -
March 31, 1994           0.6          1,8.u         83                 87
June 30, 1994            0.6          19.2          96                  -
FY 1995
September 30, 1994       0.6          19.8          99                 93
December 31, 1994        0.6          20.4          100                 -
a/  Advance from the Project Preparation Facility.
b/ This disbursement schedule deviates slightly from the East Africa
Region profile for perennial crops because of the advanced status of
project preparation and early start on Implementation under the PPF.



- 90 -
ANNEX IV
Schedule 1
Page 1
ZAMBIA
PROPQSED SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
DRAFT LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ITEM            FROM GOVERNMENT TO         FROM PARTICIPATING BANKS
PARTICIPATING BANKS (PBS)    (PBS) TO SUB-BORROWERS
Purpose                Refinancing of viable        For establishment of
investments in the coffee   coffee plantations,
sub-sector.                  installation of irriga-
tion facilities, purchase
of required machinery and
tools, and the establish-
ment of coffee processing
facilities.
Loan amount            On average 80% of the        Up to 75% of the total
coffee loans disbursed       investment cost of each
by PBS, up to the total      sub-project.
amount allocated for this
purpose under the project
credit component.
Currency denomina-    Currency denomination to    Depending on preference
tion of loans.        be the same as denomina-    of sub-borrowers, part of
tion of loans to sub-        the loan extended by the
borrowers,                   participating Bank would
be in foreign currency.
Such part would not
exceed the foreign cost
component of a sub-
project. The remainder
would be in Kwacha.
Loan Period            16 years, repayment in       Up to 12 years, repayment
semi-annual instalments      in semi-annual instal-
to coincide with repay-      ments to increase
ment schedule agreed with   gradually with estimated
sub-borrowers.               growth of coffee
production.
Grace Period           To be the same as the        For principal: 4 to 5
grace period agreed          years from the date of
between PBS and sub-         withdrawal.
borrowers (rescheduling
may be required in case      For interest:
of crop failures due to       - Up to 4 years grace
natural disasters).             period from date of
withdrawal for all
eligible coffee
growers, if cash flow
projections so
require, then interest
could be capitalized.



- 91 -
ANNEX IV
Schedule 1
Page 2
ITEM            FROM GOVERNMENT TO         FROM PARTICIPATING BANKS
PARTICIPATING BANKS (PBS)    (PBS) TO SUB-BORROWERS
Interest Rate          Funds would be onlend to    To be decided between
PBS at a fixed interest      Government, IDA and PBS
rate equal to IBRD rate      to be in line with
in effect of time of         national policy on
Negotiations (8.23%) for    agricultural lending and
foreign denominated loans   IDA policies.  Rates to
and at a variable rate       be flexible and subject
equal to the auction-        to periodical adjustment;
determined Treasury Bill    rates with a spread of up
rate plus 2% for sub-loans  to 4.5%, to be determined
denominated in Kwachas.      separately for foreign
currency and Kwacha
denominated loans (under
present conditions Kwacha
denominated loans would
carry an interest rate
which would be about 15%
higher than the one
applicable to a foreign
currency loan).
Collatoral             To be determined in sub-    Mortgage when possible;
sidiary loan agreemert.      lien ("agricultural
charge") on machinery
etc. and on coffee crop.
Members of smallholder
groups to be liable
jointly and severally.
Approval               There would be no            By PBS in accordance with
allocation to each PB;       sub-project appraisal
the funds would be made      criteria which were
available on first-come      agreed upon during
first-served basis.          Negotiations.
Withdrawal of Funds   By establishment and          According to the invest-
replenishment of special    ment schedule in the
account(s) ("revolving       feasibility study and
fund").                      progress of works.
Supervision            Through monitoring           By specialist 3taff at
reporting and in the         PBS with assistance of
context of auditing of       LINTCO, and on a sample
PBS; and during IDA          basis by IDA during
reviews.                     review missions.



- 92 -
ANNEX IV
Schedule 2
Page I
ZAMBI
SECOND COFFUe PROJECT
Coffee Subproject Feasibility Studyl!
Table of Contents:
1. Introduction
- General purpose of the subproject
- Subproject owners
- Loan financing required
2. Description of the Subproject
2.1   Subproject location and area
2.2   Topography, rivers, irrigation potential
2.3   Soil, hydrology and drainage
2.4   Energy supply
2.5   Present agricultural use and common crops in the area
2.6   Structures and farm development under the subproject
(in detail, drawings as annexes)
2.7   Planned agronomy practices
2.8   Phasing of project implementation
1/ Also called Subproject Preparation Report,



- 93 -                         ANNEX IV
3,  Legal Aspects                                                 Schedule 2
Page 2
3.1   Legal basis of the investors (private, limited company
cooperative society, other society)
3.2   Registration of coffee growing
3.3   Meeting of environmental requirements
4. Management and Marketing
4.1   Organization and managerial staff of the investing
company, farmers group, or emerging or commerical farmer
4.2   Labor availability
4.3   Arrangements for technical advice
-.for irrigation and coffee .production
- for coffee processing
4.4   Operation and maintenance of the structures and machinery
4.5  ;Aarketing arrangements
4.6   Roads and transport
4.7   Construction supervision and inspection
5. Production and Financial Plan
5.1   Projected production by year (20 years)
5.2   Investment and operating costs by category and phasing
5.3   Cash flow projections
5.4   Financial Rate of Return (based on 20 years project life)
Tables and Annexes



- 94 -
ZAMBIA                       ANNEX IV
Schedule 3
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT                 Page 1
Criteria for Appraisal of Subprojects
When appraising the suitability of subprojects for financing
under the project, the participating banks would use the following
criteria:
1. General Procedures
(a)   subprojects would be in line with the Credit Agreement between
IDA and GRZ, Project Agreement between IDA and participating
banks, and subsidiary loan agreements between GRZ and
participating banks 1/;
(b)   subproject preparation reports and loan application forms
submitted by subborrowers, and bank appraisals by participating
hanks to have a form, content and details acceptable to IDA 1/;
(c)   field surveys, basic data collection and other studies and
projections for the subproject to be prepared with adequate care.
2. Management Criteria
(a)   organization, staffing, and arrangements for recruitment and
availability of qualified staff for the sub:roject to be satis-
factory;
(b)   qualifications, TOR and terms and conditions of the client's
chief executives to be acceptable to the participating bank,
1/ To be agreed upon separately.



ANNEX IV
Schedule 3
Page 2
and be such as to contribute to continuity of management of the
subproject;
(c)   subproject implementation schedules to be in such detail as to
enable close monitoring by subborrowers and participating bank;
(d)   subproject procurement plan to be in line with the agreement with
IDA.
3. Financial and Viability Criteria
(a)   borrower to be financially sound, and to be able to present
satisfactory evidence of financial management performance (e.g.,
with the help of audited accotnts and/or good credit
performance);
*(b)   financial benetits, whose calculation is based on sufficient and
realistically projected data, to offer a minimum 15% average IRR
in constant terms (or other rate as may be agreed between
participating banks and IBRD) on total investment calculated
before deductions for debt servicing, depreciation, or dividend;
(c)   the financing plan in the subproject preparation report
(feasibility study) to include arrangements for working capital
requirements and other than project financing, satisfactory to
the participating bank and in accordance with che Credit
Agreement;
(d)   cash flow projections to support the loan repayment plan,
allowing for 4 to 5 year grace;



ANNEX IV
Schedule 3
Page 3
(e)   assets offered as se-urity to be satisfactory to the
participating bank, and to take account of earlier commitmenta;
(f)   the subborrower has adequate accounting and data collection
systems, which facilitate following of the profitability of
coffee production and collection of monitoring data for project
purposes.
4. Supply and Marketing
(a)   supply plans to secure a sufficient amount of seedlings, farm
inputs and labor for subproject operations to be presented in
the preparation report in such detail as deemed necessary. This
should be substantiated by detailed data on supply in the
surrounding area and in the country and adequate arrangements for
continued suppplies to the subproject (including a foreign
exchange "retention account" if needed);
(b)   the marketing plan in the subproject preparation report to be
realistic and sufficiently detailed, including such information
as: the market channel, transport, prices and their expected
movements;
(c)   a registration certificate and a license, if required by GRZ
authorities, to establish the operation to be presented, or
arrangements made to obtain it to be satisfactory to the
participating hank.



- 97 -
ANNEX IV
Schedule 3
Page 4
5. Technical Criteria
(a)   land chosen for coffee farm or plantation should be:
(i) essentially free from encumbrances until loan repayment is
completed;
(ii) suitable for coffee production, i.e., have suitable
topography, soil, altitude, etc.;
(iii) not subject to flooding, and having sufficient source of
water for irrigation network;
(iv) easily accessible and served by adeess roads, or suitable
provisions made in the subproject proposal for such roads;
(v) available with vacant possession to the borrower prior to
granting of the loan;
(vi) in an area, where sufficient electrical power can be
secured or generated.
(b)   if the land size is less than 10 ha, arrangements have been made
for group operations through registrations and establishment of a
suitable organizational form and financial basis;
(c)   adequate coffee irrigation, extension and processing assistance
is available either from LINTCO or arrangements have been made to
obtain regular extension and processing advice;
(d)   constructions and appertinent facilities are in accordance with
national standards and designs approved by the participating bank
and acceptable to IDA and not in conflict with existing
construction codes;
(e)   construction works supervision and inspection arrangements
include employment of qualified and engineering staff;



- 98 -                          ANNEX IV
Schedule 3
Page 5
(f)   certification arrangements for progressive contract payments to
be in accordance with instructions issued by participating bank
and agreed with IDA;
(g)   construction and installation works and equipment procurement to
be let on competitive bidding in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines and local procedure acceptable to IDA;
(h)   satisfactory environmental guidelines (to be solicited from IBRD)
are to be applied to the subproject in question.
6.  Appraisals by Participating Banks and IDA
(a)   the authority of branch offices or affiliated regional level
banks to review loans will be according to the practice of each
bank, but all subprojects shall be appraised by the head office
unit of participating bank;
(b)   subproject monitoring arrangements to include furnishing of
requested information to, and periodic physical supervision by
the respective bank group;
(c)   first-three subprojects in each bank to be reviewed and approved
by IDA. If satisfied, thereafter only investments bigger than
K 0.5 million to be reviewed and approved by IDA, who would also
review a selected number of smaller subprojects during the
follow-up visits to Zambia.
TT:ej



22-                                    24                                    26'
Z A M B IA
SECOND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*t   Smallholder coffee development areas         , Rivers
B    Barclay's Bank of Zambia, LTD.                   Swomps
S    Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia           6    National cap.al
Z   Zambia National Commercial Bank LTD.    @   Province capitals
HQ   Headquarters of participating banks        -  -  District houndaries
Moin roads                                       Province boundaries
Railways                                 -*     Internotional boundories
-10o                        Intemational airport
+    Airfields
'N                         iiXIOMEtERS               100      IO       200      250
S~~~~~~~T ..                          .         .
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               A
A    NlE 0                                       50 L0 A150g
ib -_./ - Z A          I    R               4
A  N  G~ 0O L  A    MWNItU                                )                SoiezK A  
1   Z A    8  z , '           S  t5  T  Lc  R. 'N       
sZombez, j  Kobompof                                   POa 
K  A           M
s _       L LJ. K  U  L U                  /   r   }          ~     -.        )      .O;W E  -
|  > .OL-t-.                                 /    \            I  *< 
kK °ul
K Nm aLen po ^      9  K      Aoma
Kal to                                  K N    GA       . O-             M A
VN~~J..'*\...0                                                                        .....
w-                                   N
\  /  A>5N    1  tow   SN 
KaAabo N.G O L A  '- _.~  ~aab                                   go
\~~F~~i~ ngu                                                            1    ,
_._ I                 N"'    A N    G A    IAM
l~~~~~ ~ 2,2                     24                                                 I.+tS A A  OM&
Mul   z~C'm
%  /                                   ~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~K  A  L 0    inazongv
ANGOLA                                 ....
......  ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     '-              IVINGSTONt E
Livingstone
~   2ir                                        86TNWAAMrI  B   I  Ay



_                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19765
§  9   /   - - rfl  Kos9ba Wat' 3;.o,tT   A        N     Z    A     N  I A
,J  K AP J T A           Pusu    
t H E t              0    ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~M 1! A    A         3~
S i3k % 4°  ->    i--Mpc.-okoso, -                '9o,''
, KA AMBWA   A^k;\                            3S       ~     A\<\l              A   
N Dwense           0-1V          k""t S --- -°a                         : es>            \
L U W I N G U                                  Chnsl)>                      s
p                     %             I  /   _  t X     H I N 5 AI I         
(  tMUFULIRA       j            )         St                 '   ; U M C~~~~~ ~~~~~~ A Z; A
NdobRura~~C-   -                                                                        Ch  am I 
-A-~~~~~ BN W          A   4.s -M                                                                I   11 r                         "       .
CHIABIA                                            AA -    I  K  4,-- 
Ch                IwoUAK MUFUL/SA  Kv  
.R   /                              .~-KTW
# E  _ GWFMBE                                                             _--\                 IAN:4hiA~S  E 
0  L -A- R                        ISMB             er BWenX =,e  
/X? %,                                                          ,         S    \ . ,f d hA6g}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA 
FO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Chip   |                                                  x
N                                                                                     A-I  .lPhr-w 
KapiriMpos   ^ tstfs-    3e ftT  >I 4~tga zX1 w~oece(f|                         jt }       rl4
FTts Rw A...... >,ctt X5gortl.Dbol........... t_GTz ts
2,f                                     30 Ra- AN  t98



