Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 16810
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1743-ZM)
June 27, 1997
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURENCY-QUIVALENTS
Appi,isal,[ US$ 1.0    K 7.2.
K 1(1 = US$ 0.139
(mv>lcti. IUSQG 1.h      K 1,300.0
K 1.0     US$ 0.0008
FISALYEAR
GRZ, January I December 31
!DA July I June 30
AAIREXIAuONS-AND ACRONYMS
ASIP                   Agri :.ulr ral Sector Investment Program
BOZ                    [lank .if Zaiibia
CBD                    Ct f   Berty Disease
CLR                    C-oflee I saf Rust
CP                     F A(/World Bank Cooperative Program
DBZ                    Developaient Bank of Zambia
GRZ                    Pie Oovernment of Zambia
ICR                    'rrj jpicnt.tation Completion Report
LINTCO                 LIN4 Coriipaniy of Zambia
MAFF                   N11nistyv of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
PB                     Partikipating Bank
PC                     Pi-oject Coordinator
PMCC                   Pro'jct Management and Coordination Committee
PMU                    Projec. Mianagement Unit
PPF                    Proiect Preparation Facility
PS                     Pcx,riu-ut Secretary
TA                     TecInical Assistance
ZANACO                 Zaiicbia National Commercial Bank
ZCB                    Zamibia Coffee Board
ZCCL                   /afi hia Coffee Company Limited
ZCGA                   far:bia Ceffee Growers Association
Vice Pm;dent                    Callisto E. Madavo
Coutmnt, [irec~tor:              Phydlis Pomerantz
T  'eclmhic  lariager.           Sushma Ganguly
Staff  -.-1. n;ew                Rajah Ranasinghe



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(Cr. 1743-ZA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .......                      ..................................................................                                                                j
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................................                                                                            ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................................I
A.  STATEMENT/EVALUATION   OF  OBJECTIVES  .........................................................................I
B.  ACHIEVEMENT  OF  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES  .........................................................................                                              2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..........3
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................................................7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .........................................................................                                                                    8
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE  .........................................................................8
G. ASSESSMENT  OF  OUTCOME  ........................................................................8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................................................................9
1. LESSONS  LEARNED  ........................................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................................11
TABLE  1:   SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS .........................                                           ............................................... I I
TABLE  2:   RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ...................................                                          ..................................... 12
TABLE  3:   PROJECT  TIMETABLE  ........................................................................ 13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .....................................
(US$  MILLION) ..................................................................... 13
TABLE  5:   KEY  INDICATORS FOR  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ........................................... ................. 14
TABLE  6:   KEY  INDICATORS FOR  PROJECT OPERATION  ..................................................................... 15
TABLE  7:   STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT .....................................................................                                                15
TABLE  8A:  PROJECT  COSTS ..................................................................... 16
TABLE  8B:  PROJECT  FINANCING  ..................................................................... 16
TABLE  9:   ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS .....................................................................                                                17
TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS ...................................................................... 18
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .                                                                  ............................................... 20
TABLE  12:  BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS .....................................................................                                               20
TABLE  13:  BANK  RESOURCES:  MISSIONS  ..................................................................... 21
APPENDICES
A. AIDE MEMOIRE .....................................................................                                                                           23
B. NOTE ON COFFEE AND CUT FLOWER DEVELOPMENT AND IMPACT ................                                                                    ........................ 31
C. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .....................................................................                                                      54
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization






- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(Cr. 1743-ZM)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Coffee Project in Zambia
for which Credit 1743-ZA in the amount of SDR 16.9 million (US$ 20.4 million) was approved on
November 25, 1986 and became effective on March 16, 1992. Credit effectiveness was delayed by
about five years due to the Bank's suspension of disbursement to Zambia in May 1987, following arrears
in debt service payments.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996, about two and half years ahead of the expected
closing date of June 30, 1999. The decision to close was based on the need to incorporate project
components into the on-going Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP). Total disbursement was
SDR 14.9 million and SDR 2.0 million remained undisbursed.
3.    The ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) on behalf of
the AFTAI Division of the Africa Region of the World Bank. The ICR is based on information obtained
from the project files and on the findings of an ICR mission1 which visited Zambia in January/February
1997. Contributions to the report were made by Jacomina de Regt (AFTS I) and Fred King, Rajah
Ranasinghe (AFTA 1); and it was reviewed by Sushma Ganguly (AFTA 1).
4.    The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing input to the Aide Memoire.
In addition, a "Project Completion Report" was prepared by the Borrower. A summary of the
Borrower's contribution, as well as a letter from the Borrower, are included as Appendix C.
P. Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, FAO) and A. Finney (Coffee Production and Processing Specialist,
Consultant).



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(Cr. 1743-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since the 1960s, the Bank has been active in assisting Zambian agriculture. The Bank's support
was comprehensive, comprising projects in subsectors such as forestry, livestock, fisheries and crop
development; provincial-based area development projects; input supply and marketing projects; research
and extension; and export promotion programs. The Second Coffee Project (Coffee II) falls within the
export promotion category.
2.    The main objectives of Coffee II were to expand Zambia's agricultural base, diversify its
sources of foreign exchange earnings and provide an additional source of income to the rural population.
The project proposed to meet these objectives by assisting the development of about 3,200 hectares of
coffee by smallholder and commercial farmers with an annual production target at full development
(about 1999) of about 4,700 tons of high quality arabica coffee. The five project components were:
provision of credit to farmers for coffee production and processing; strengthening of coffee extension
services; strengthening of coffee research at the Misamfu Regional Research Station; support to improve
coffee marketing; and assistance to the Zambia Coffee Company Limited (ZCCL), a parastatal, to
improve management and expand coffee production. The ZCCL was later privatized, and no project
support was provided. Unlike the First Coffee Project, which concentrated solely on parastatal-based
coffee production, Coffee II focused on farmers for both coffee production and processing. This change
of direction towards private sector development was appropriate and was based on experience gained
under the first project, which had suffered from the poor performance of the ZCCL.
Project Implementation and Results
3.    Project implementation was postponed by about five years due to a delay in Credit effectiveness.
This delay was due mainly to the Bank's suspension of disbursements to Zambia in May 1987, following
arrears in debt service payments. Instead of June 1987, the Credit became effective in March 1992 after
the suspension was lifted in late 1991 and the project was reviewed for its continued relevance. The new
project closing date was set for June 30, 1999. The closing date was brought forward to December 31,
1996 because the project components were incorporated into the on-going Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP). In addition, the major component, credit, was fully committed.
4.    The period of implementation also coincided with major political and economic transformation
in Zambia. The new government which came into power in 1991 was determined to introduce market-
based economic reforms in which budget austerity and reduced government intervention, including
privatization of parastatals, were the main elements. The project was, therefore, restructured to replace



- iii-
the two parastatal organizations initially designed to implement some project components. To obviate
the difficulties associated with high inflation and the rapidly depreciating Kwacha, the project was
modified to enable the participating banks to lend in foreign exchange. Since disbursement for coffee
development was slow in the two years following effectiveness, coverage was extended to all other
agricultural crops, including cut flowers. This flexibility allowed the project to respond positively to the
changing economic environment and thereby accelerate project implementation.
5.    After a slow start in 1994, implementation of the credit component moved rapidly. The turn-
around came after the following changes: expansion of coverage to all agricultural crops, incentives
given to the participating banks (PBs), and the initiatives taken by the Project Management Unit (PMU)
in following up on implementation issues. At completion, the project had been successful in
achieving the objectives of expanding the agricultural base and diversifying the sources of
foreign exchange earnings. Full development (about 1999) annual production of coffee is likely
to approach the appraisal estimate (4,100 tons compared to 4,700 tons), while cut flower
production, not envisaged at appraisal, is expected to reach 22 million stems annually.
Incremental foreign exchange earnings at full development are projected at US$19 million,
compared to the appraisal estimate of US$12 million, on an annual basis. Re-estimates of
financial and economic rates of return for the project are favorable. However, the objective of
raising rural incomes was not achieved to the extent envisioned. Commercial farmers benefited, since
they were able to obtain loans under the credit program, but smallholders did not benefit to the extent
anticipated, mainly because they did not have access to credit since they were considered by the
participating commercial banks as not creditworthy. Financing for smallholders is a part of a larger issue
of rural finance. The Government is presently considering a range of options, including outgrower
schemes and input credit through stockists and processors.
6.    The credit component was the largest part of the project. Some 40 commercial farmers
participated: 28 coffee farmers, 10 cut flower producers, and 2 soybean farners. About 1,550 ha of
coffee and 20 ha of cut flowers were established. The coffee farms were equipped with drip irrigation
and wet-processing facilities for producing high-quality washed coffee. Cut flower producers adopted
high-technology production systems, consisting of greenhouses and automated irrigation, imported on a
turnkey basis from Europe.
7.    The project supported the establishment of export-based coffee and cut flower industries through
the adoption of modern technology and sound marketing. The Zambia Coffee Growers Association
(ZCGA) was instrumental in strengthening the marketing of coffee through the assessment of coffee
quality, negotiation of prices on behalf of its members, and development of a marketing strategy.
8.    Of the research and extension components, extension was the more successful. Coffee research
lacked a clearly-defined program for responding to the needs of the coffee industry. The reorganization
of the national agricultural research system under ASIP is expected to address this basic problem in
research. Under a pilot scheme, the extension service assisted smallholders to form groups and provided
them with inputs and marketing support for the establishment of about 320 ha of coffee. This scheme
demonstrated the viability of smallholder coffee production, but the lack of access to credit limited
expansion to other smallholders.
9.    Except for the handling of the credit at the early stages by the Bank of Zambia, coordination has
been satisfactory. The decision to transfer the coordinating role from the Project and Coordinating
Committee (PMCC) to the Zambia Coffee Board made coordination effective and sustainable.



- iv-
10.    Overall, the project is considered to be marginally satisfactory. The objectives of expanding the
agricultural base and diversifying sources of foreign exchange were met, and the re-estimated rates of
return for the project are favorable. (The financial rates of return are estimated at 26% for coffee and
43% for cut flowers; the economic rate of return is estimated at 44%.) However, the objective of raising
rural incomes was not achieved to the extent expected. Commercial farmers were successful in adopting
new technology packages with access to credit, confuting earlier beliefs by financing institutions that
long-tern lending to agriculture was not feasible. But the participation of smallholders was limited.
Until recently, smallholders did not have access to improved, disease-resistant planting material, and will
have to bear relatively high maintenance costs in the future. They are now receiving improved varieties,
but the problem of access to credit remains and may be resolved only over the medium term as a result of
the pilot schemes involving outgrowers and input credit supply through stockists and processors.
Sustainability and Future Operations
11.    Export-based coffee and cut flower production is sustainable, given access to modern technology
and credit, and the existence of an effective, industry-based, marketing organization. In terms of
smallholders, progress has been achieved in demonstrating the viability of coffee production, and in
identifying the ingredients necessary for sustainable production, but access to credit is still a problem.
The prospects remain uncertain, and much will depend on the results of the pilots involving outgrower
schemes and input credit supply through stockists and processors.
Lessons Learned
12.    Major lessons learned from Coffee II are:
(a)   The flexible design and project's ability to respond positively to the changing
economic environment resulted in accelerated project implementation, albeit through
commercial farmers. It would have been desirable to extend this flexibility to the
exploration of further options for smallholder participation.
(b)  It is important for export-based agricultural enterprises to have the best available
technology to ensure quality, and to have sound marketing strategies. Access to
credit greatly facilitates the acquisition of technology.
(c)   Lack of access to credit was a major reason for the limited progress of the smallholder
component. However, financing for smallholders needs to be addressed as part of the
broader issue of rural finance, and may include elements such as outgrower schemes
for cash crops and input credit through stock ists and processors.
(d)  Quality is of utmost importance in the export market and becomes a common goal for
all exporters regardless of their scale of operation. Smallholders growing disease-
prone varieties could cause an adverse reaction in the market, and therefore they need
to adopt the same cropping packages (including improved planting material) as
commercial farmers.
(e)   Research should be oriented to the needs of the farmer. Disease-resistant coffee
varieties from neighboring countries should be utilized, and recommendations should
be made available to farmers in a timely manner.



- v -
(f)   Industry-based institutions such as the Zambia Coffee Board are more likely to be
effective on a sustainable basis than public sector institutions with a similar purpose.






-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(Cr. 1743-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.    The collapse of copper prices in the 1970s, made Zambia realize that dependence on one
commodity, copper, for foreign exchange earnings made the economy highly vulnerable. This has
strengthened the need to diversify Zambia's export base by producing commodities in which the country
has a comparative advantage. Government development plans have since devoted considerable resources
to export diversification programs. The two coffee projects financed by the Bank were an integral part of
this strategy.
2.    The Second Coffee Project (Coffee II) had three main objectives: to expand Zambia's
agricultural base, to diversify its source of foreign exchange earnings, and to provide additional income
to the rural population. It consisted of the following components: provision of credit for coffee
production and processing; strengthening of coffee extension services by providing technical assistance,
training and mobility; strengthening coffee research through the provision of training, technical
assistance, material and equipment; improving coffee marketing and; assistance to the Zambia Coffee
Company Limited (ZCCL), a parastatal, to improve its management and expand coffee production. The
ZCCL was later privatized and no project support was piovided. The project aimed at producing 4,700
tons of high quality arabica coffee annually at full development, estimated to be around 1999.
3.    The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF), then Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Development, was to have overall responsibility for the project. A Project Management and
Coordination Committee (PMCC) was to be established, under the chairmanship of the Permanent
Secretary of MAFF. Its members were to be the Ministry of Finance, the National Commission for
Development Planning, and the implementing agencies, i.e. Participating Banks (PBs), the Lint Company
of Zambia (LINTCO) for coffee extension, the coffee research establishment of MAFF and ZCCL.
LINTCO was expected to provide the secretariat to the PMCC, and to the Project Coordinator. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was provided to prepare an implementation plan for the extension and
research components.
4.    A distinguishing feature of Coffee II, compared to its predecessor, was the change of its
production approach from public sector orientation to individual farmer-based industry. The main thrust
of the First Coffee Project was the establishment of the publicly owned and managed coffee estate with
modem wet coffee processing facilities and a dry mill. However, the estate, which was managed by
ZCCL, was from the outset beset with serious problems stemming from poor management. This resulted
in considerable financial losses. The estate was sold under the Govemment privatization program.
Coffee II learned a lesson from this experience, and focused on private sector coffee development. This



-2-
approach succeeded in laying the foundation for a sustainable coffee industry, by involving commercial
farmers in coffee production and processing.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The objectives of broadening the agricultural base and diversifying sources of foreign exchange
earnings were satisfactorily met, although in a different manner than expected at appraisal. At that time,
it was envisaged that the project would produce about 4,700 tons of coffee annually and raise annual
foreign exchange earnings by about US$ 12 million at full development. With the change in product
mix, current estimates are that annual production will be about 4,100 tons of coffee and 22 million cut-
flower stems (roses), and foreign exchange earnings US$ 19 million on an annual basis, at full
development in about 1999. The objective of raising rural incomes, however, was only partially met.
Commercial farmers benefited, since they were able to obtain loans under the credit program, but
smallholders did not benefit to the extent anticipated, mainly because they did not have access to project
credit because they were not considered creditworthy by the participating commercial banks.
Smallholders did benefit to a limited extent through assistance provided by the extension service, based
on the experience of the commercial farmers with the new technology packages, and from improved
planting material provided by the commercial farmers. However, smallholders generally were not able
to introduce the full packages because of the lack of access to credit to finance the purchased inputs.
Nevertheless, while smallholders were not able to benefit to the full extent under the project, the viability
of smallholder coffee production was demonstrated, and the Government is presently considering options
for greater smallholder participation, including outgrower schemes and input credit through stockists and
processors. Employment opportunities have also been lower, at about 120 skilled and 3,000 unskilled
laborers compared with the appraisal estimates of 300 and 7,000, respectively, because of the change in
product mix.
6.    In terms of transfer of technology and introduction of new development approaches, the project
succeeded in demonstrating that important technological transfer takes place indirectly through the credit
component. The commercial farmers use improved technology such as drip irrigation, high quality
disease resistant hybrid cultivars, and adopted advanced coffee management practices, often by
importing these from neighboring countries. In this regard, the impact is even more pronounced for cut
flower production, because the project was instrumental in expanding the high technology production
system, under a controlled environment.
7.    Improvement in marketing know-how has also been achieved by the project as ZCGA now has a
better capacity to advise growers on grading procedures and standards. The liquoring equipment
provided to the Association has improved assessment of cup quality standards. All these factors enabled
ZCGA to negotiate better prices for its members. The project, however, did not provide the Association
with instantaneous access to international coffee prices; therefore markets are still being contacted by
telephone or fax, at high costs.
8.    Although the project's environmental impact was not monitored systematically, adverse effects
are considered to have been minimal. Small farmers have been using small quantities of agrochemical,
and their processing is based on dry pulping of cherry in situ, with little adverse effects on the
environment. Commercial farmers use substantial quantities of chemicals and appear to be conscious of
the hazards of their uncontrolled use. They apply a systemic carbamate pesticide (aldicarb), which is
highly toxic. The farmers believe that a 90-day withholding before harvest is a sufficient precaution to



-3-
avoid any effects on the crop. The commercial farmers are equipped with adequate pollution control
systems for coffee processing.
9.    Coffee production has resulted in attractive economic returns. The economic rate of return is
currently estimated at 44%, approximately double that of the estimates made at appraisal. Financial
returns to investors are also attractive, 26% for commercial coffee, and 43% for cut flowers. At
appraisal the yield for commercial coffee farmers was underestimated and the high returns on cut flower
investments were not included. Although the smallholders as a group did not benefit from the project's
credit line, it has been demonstrated by the extension services that the potential income per hectare of a
smallholder coffee farmer participating in the group program is about US$ 800, which is severalfold
higher than that of maize, the staple crop (Appendix B).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
General
10.   The Bank's suspension of disbursement to Zambia in May 1987, due to arrears in debt service
payments delayed credit effectiveness by about five years. Following resumption of disbursements by
the Bank in the second half of 1991, and a review of the project in November 1991, the project was
declared effective on March 16, 1992.
Project Review and Restructuring
11.   Both GRZ and the Bank decided to review the project in November 1991, in order to ascertain
whether the design objectives and assumptions made at appraisal were still valid. The review confirmed
the validity of the objectives and the financial and economic viability of the project. At the same time,
cognizance was taken of the need to restructure the project to reflect the changes that took place in the
interim. The most crucial change was the political and market-based economic reforms, including budget
austerity measures, cutting of subsidies and privatizing parastatal organizations that took place in 1991
under a new Government. This led to the exclusion of two implementing agencies i.e. LINTCO, which
withdrew from smallholder coffee activities and ZCCL. Other changes were the promulgation of the
Coffee Act by Parliament in 1989, thereby establishing the Zambia Coffee Board (ZCB) to regulate and
promote the coffee industry and to advise GRZ; and the creation of the Zambia Coffee Growers
Association (ZCGA), which was empowered by the Coffee Act to register coffee producers, roasters and
exporters.
12.   The restructuring of the project entailed: the creation of a Project Management Unit (PMU)
under MAFF to take up LINTCO's coordinating role; the substitution of ZCCL by ZCGA to implement
the coffee marketing component; the inclusion of the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) to channel project credit
funds to farmers through the Participating Banks (PBs); and the defacto substitution of the PMCC by
ZCB. The credit component was also modified to allow the PBs to operate in foreign exchange and hence
avoid difficulties associated with the high inflation rate and rapid depreciation of the Kwacha. The credit
component was further modified to include other export crops such as cut flowers and soybeans.
13.   When the project was restructured and declared effective, its completion date was set at June 30,
1999. However, the closing date was brought forward to December 31, 1996, because all agricultural
projects were incorporated into the Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP). In addition, the
funds allocated to the credit components were fully committed, and the other two components, coffee



-4-
extension and research, were being implemented by the relevant departments in MAFF, which are
implementing the ASIP.
Coffee Development Finance
14.   After a slow start in 1994, implementation of the credit component moved rapidly as the PBs
gained experience in coffee lending over time. The two PBs, i.e. the Development Bank of Zambia
(DBZ) and Zambia National Commercial Bank (ZANACO), each delivered credit worth US$ 15.8
million and US$ 3.9 million, respectively. This is more than the amount originally planned because of
the appreciation of the SDR and the reallocation of funds from other components to credit. The sub-loans
were generally given to farmers for 10 years, with a 3-year grace period, and interest charges varied
between 2.5 to 3% over LIBOR. The latter was the rate BOZ charged the PBs. While borrowing farmers
appear satisfied with these terms and conditions, they consider other expenses, such as legal fees, loan
arrangement fees and transaction charges, as costly. All the credit was disbursed to commercial farmers
because they could meet the security requirements of the PBs. Smallholders were not considered
creditworthy by the PBs, since they could not meet the security requirements and had arrears on past
input loans (in general). In reacting to the ICR, the Borrower raised two concerns relating to credit: that
PBs may delay repayment of loans to the Bank of Zambia and not relend the repayments of sub-
borrowers, and that smallholders have not benefited from the credit. The terms of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between PB and Bank of Zambia address the first concern. According to these terms PB
repayment schedule coincides with that of the sub-borrower, and additionally the PB shall relend such
repaid principal amount under the same conditions as governing the first disbursement. A sustainable
solution to smallholder credit still needs to be found. Ongoing studies and pilot rural finance programs
including outgrower schemes are under consideration to address smallholder credit problems.
15.   The credit funds were disbursed to 40 commercial farmers: 28 coffee farmers, who established
about 1,550 hectares of coffee; 10 cut flower growers, who established 20 hectares of rose farms; and
two farmers for producing soybeans. The commercial coffee farms planted disease-resistant hybrids,
bought from neighboring countries, and are equipped with drip irrigation and facilities for wet coffee
processing. Production of cut flowers is based on high-technology greenhouses, with automated
irrigation. This technology, which is imported from Europe, is linked with input supply and marketing of
the flowers. Availability of credit enabled the commercial farmers to access advanced technology and to
become competitive in the export market.
Extension and Smallholder Coffee
16.    Some extension activities in organizing farmers had commenced in 1987 using the PPF for
recruiting consultants and procuring vehicles, but these were stopped when the credit effectiveness was
deferred. The collapse of the pilot-scale smallholder coffee established by the First Coffee Project,
occurred when LINTCO withdrew its extension and marketing services. When the extension service
under this project started during the second half of 1993, almost all of the 200 hectares of smallholder
coffee established under the First Coffee Project had either died out or been up-rooted. Under the Coffee
II Project the extension service assisted smallholder coffee growers, willing to form into groups with
technical messages and with limited support with input supply and marketing.
17.   The extension service focused only on smallholder coffee in the Northern, Luapula and
Copperbelt Provinces. A Senior Extension Specialist was recruited and positioned in the Northern
Province, while two Extension Specialists were placed in the other two provinces. These Extension
Specialists worked full time on coffee, but their extension agents were general MAFF extension staff,



-5-
who were given training and mobility to extend messages on coffee development. The basis for
delivering the extension service was a farmer group, and the initial task of the project had been to
identify and organize farmers who were willing to produce coffee into registered farmer groups. The
project organized 44 such groups, each comprising an average of 25 members, located within a 5 km
radius. Each farmer group was provided with a nursery, constructed and maintained by the project. The
extension service also provided agricultural inputs and hand pulpers in order to obviate the financing
difficulties, with the understanding that repayments would be made by the farmer groups who signed for
these inputs. The potential for earning by these group participants is estimated at about $800 per hectare.
It is unlikely that the input and marketing activities will be sustained by the MAFF in the future, and may
have a negative effect on prospective participants by raising unwarranted expectations and hence the
need for smallholders to be able to directly access credit and marketing channels. Despite the lack of
progress in smallholder coffee development because of poor access to credit, benefits to smallholders
arising out of developments in the commercial fanning sector have been recorded. In 1997 commercial
farmers have provided extension service with imported disease resistant varieties for planting by
smallholders.
18.   The smallholder coffee appears to be in good condition, although some plots have signs of
moisture stress from insufficient irrigation. Unlike the commercial farms, all of the smallholder plantings
up to 1996 consisted of varieties which are susceptible to Coffee Leaf Rust (CLR) and Coffee Berry
Disease (CBD), because research did not produce or release resistant varieties. Hence, maintenance costs
will be high in the future. Although the project has demonstrated that the coffee extension service and
other inputs could be successfully delivered through farmer groups, the wide dispersion of the groups
makes the delivery of services costly. Since the coffee has to be irrigated, the groups had to be formed
according to the availability of a water source, which may not facilitate clustering. As a continuing
development effort, the extension staff has paid special attention to the coffee farmers who gave up
coffee production when they were abandoned by LINTCO.
Coffee Research
19.   The research component has not made adequate progress, mainly because it was not planned
with a view to servicing producers. The program undertaken by the Misamfu Research Station was not
well focused on the needs of the industry, and hence poorly prioritized. Most of its programs consisted of
trials on fertilizer, spacing, irrigation and spraying, which are not top priorities for the large commercial
farmers or for the smallholder. Basic standards and recommendations for these activities already exist.
However, growers wanted planting material that is resistant to CLR and CBD, and services in soil
fertility analysis, which were not available to them. Research on the old SL28 variety, which is known
for its disease susceptibility continued. Management of research remains weak and the trial plots are
poorly maintained.
20.   At the recommendation of an IDA mission, a two-day workshop was held in July 1996 to
provide coffee research with guidelines for the future. Although this meeting analyzed coffee research
and indicated priorities, it fell short of preparing a precise action plan with an agreed timetable and
follow-up responsibilities. However, under ASIP, special efforts will be made by ZCGA and MAFF to
improve communications between research, extension and farmers so that research will better address
farmer needs. Under ASIP, the annual work plans for research are expected to be set in consultation with
farmers. If implemented, the problems now facing coffee research should be resolved.



-6-
Coffee Marketing
21.   ZCGA has received assistance in terms of training and the supply of office and liquoring
equipment. This assistance has enabled the Association to improve its assessment of coffee quality and to
enhance its understanding of the international coffee marketing. Project management has not provided
technical assistance to ZCGA, since such assistance has been given by the European Union.
Technical Assistance
22.   Technical assistance (TA) was provided to support small-scale growers in the area of coffee
agronomy, irrigation and processing. This consisted of three TA contract staff - a coffee agronomist
(team leader), an irrigation engineer and a processing specialist, recruited towards the end of 1986, using
PPF funds. They were based in Kasama, Northern Province, where the majority of small-scale coffee
growers are located. The TA staff worked under LINTCO and achievements were made in training the
MAFF extension staff in coffee production technology, and in preparing extension literature. A total of
15 extension staff were trained in three courses over a 12-month period. The TA ended abruptly when
the Bank stopped disbursing to Zambia in 1987. The impact was, therefore, only partial. A short-term
consultancy was also provided in 1993 in order to review coffee research. The impact of this TA was,
however, limited as it failed to recognize the immediate needs of the industry.
Studies
23.   One study concerning an implementation plan with an emphasis on the extension and research
components, was carried out by TA personnel under the PPF in 1987. The study provided a framework
for recruitment of staff and procurement of vehicles and equipment. However, the plan fell into
abeyance in 1987 when the project was suspended, but was used when the project came back on stream
in 1992.
24.   Three studies involving research and extension were carried out during project implementation.
An extension plan was drawn up by the extension staff in 1993 for the operations of the service. This
had a positive impact as it provided an operating document for a re-organized coffee extension under a
manager. In the same year, a study provided an extension manual for the design and management of
smallholder nurseries. This study was useful since it covered clonal technology which was used later in the
project. A research study in 1993 provided an outline for a revival of coffee research at Misamfu. The
impact was minimal since it tended to emphasize on long-term research but not focused on the needs of the
industry and hence not sustainable. It also overlooked the capacity of research personnel and the immediate
needs of coffee growers, particularly smallholders.
Project Organization and Management
25.   The PMCC, established before the project became effective, met a few times in 1986 and 1987.
It was instrumental in expediting the fulfillment of conditions for the credit by opening special accounts,
and in implementing the PPF through LINTCO.
26.   The PMCC was dropped in favor of the newly established ZCB as a management and
coordination body for the project. The argument used was that ZCB would be in a better position to
guide and coordinate project activities, since its very mission is coffee development. Furthermore, all the
members of the PMCC were also members of ZCB, except the PBs. It was, therefore, decided to invite



-7-
the PBs when issues concerning credit arose. This coordinating arrangement appears to have worked
satisfactorily, because the PMU functioned as a bridge between the PBs and ZCB until it was dissolved.
27.   In retrospect, the wisdom of this arrangement should be recognized, because the preference for
an existing and permanent institution rather than an ad hoc one is paying off now after the credit has
closed. Had the PMCC managed the project, its activities would have ceased after the closure of the IDA
credit for which it was established. In the case of ZCB, its role in promoting coffee development is
continuing, and will remain so, until this responsibility stays vested in it. ZCB is a stakeholder in the
country's coffee development drive.
28.   The substitution of LINTCO by the PMU for the coordinating function, albeit not by design,
under the overall responsibility of the Permanent Secretary (PS) of MAFF, was the right decision. This
is so, because it provided the head of the PMU, the Project Coordinator (PC), with continuity in the line
of command, as the PS of MAFF was also Chairperson of the Board. This situation has given the PC a
unique opportunity to swiftly alert project authorities on any difficulties that might arise, often by
proposing solutions, and soliciting their decision. In particular, the PMU became an important linkage
between the PBs on the one hand, and ZCB, BOZ and borrowing farmers on the other, thereby becoming
instrumental in resolving issues concerning credit. The PMU was largely responsible for coordinating
activities that brought about the turn around in project implementation. The PMU has also endeavored to
keep implementation records and accounts, and for arranging their auditing. The PMU is to be credited
for having a lean setup, as it consisted of the PC and his secretary, operating from a two-room rented
office.
Project Costs and Financing
29.   Total project costs, including those contributed by farmers (25% of the sub-loans) amounted to
US$ 27.06 million, equivalent to about 78% of the appraisal estimates. The costs at completion were
lower than what had been envisaged at appraisal, mainly due to the exclusion of the ZCCL component,
but also due to lower than expected expenditures in extension, research and marketing support
components. Total IDA disbursement amounted to SDR 14.86 million (88% of the credit) and SDR 2.04
million remain undisbursed. In US Dollar terms, however, disbursement amounted to 22.06 million as
opposed to 20.4 million envisaged at appraisal, because of the appreciation of the SDR against the US
Dollar over the past years.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   The commercial farming of coffee and flowers, on which the bulk of project investments were
directed, will remain sustainable ventures. Commercial coffee farmers have planted disease-resistant,
high-yielding varieties and have established wet coffee processing facilities. They are producing high
quality arabica coffee, the price of which hardly drops below production costs, even in the case of
international market crises. When the prices dropped following the collapse of the International Coffee
Agreement in 1989, the average price received by Zambian growers during the critical years of 1989-90
to 1992-93 was about US$ 1,600 per ton, which was the lowest price ever received, but was still higher
than the prevalent production costs of about US$ 1,000 per ton. The cut flower business is also well
shielded from any such risks because it is operated under arrangements of continuous agriculture input
supply and is geared towards a specific and assured market. The support given to marketing of coffee is
sustainable, since ZCGA has acquired expertise in improved marketing under the project.



-8-
31.   The sustainability of extension service is expected to be guaranteed by integrating coffee
extension with ASIP. However, the modalities for this have to be worked out. Extension services will be
adversely affected if the three coffee extension specialists, recruited by the project, are not allowed to
continue working with the MAFF extension staff.
32.    Sustainability of smallholder coffee will be uncertain until suitable credit and marketing systems
evolve. As the coffee matures and disease and pests build up, the smallholder will need access to funds
to purchase fertilizers and other agrochemicals, especially since smallholders have planted varieties that
are susceptible to diseases. Since credit is a part of a larger issue of rural finance, GRZ is attempting to
address it by designing pilot rural finance schemes that would facilitate the development of sources of
credit and marketing channels.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   The Bank's performance was generally satisfactory. The project was prepared by GRZ, and the
Bank maintained a continuous dialogue with the preparation team and facilitated the change in
orientation from the public to the private sector. The Bank's policy discussions with GRZ were also
useful, as they led to the preparation of a coffee policy and the preparation of the Coffee Act, and its
subsequent promulgation by the Parliament. All these contributed to a much smoother appraisal. The
concept of expediting project implementation by undertaking preparatory activities through the PPF was
also useful. Through no fault of the project, this work was interrupted by the delay in Credit
effectiveness. As the pace of implementation was affected by political and economic transformation in
the country, supervision missions assisted the project by adopting a flexible approach and cooperated in
resolving the issues. Nevertheless, when it became apparent that only commercial farmers had access to
credit, the Bank could have been more active in working with the Government to find alternatives for
smallholders.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   The performance of the Borrower is considered satisfactory, although the delay in debt service
payments to the Bank negatively affected the project by delaying effectiveness by about five years. In
preparation for credit effectiveness, GRZ had met the conditions required under the Development Credit
Agreement when the suspension for disbursements was lifted by the Bank. The PMCC was established
and met several times when implementation of the PPF was underway. When the project became
effective, GRZ showed flexibility in reviewing the implementation arrangements, thereby, facilitating
the pace of development. It also complied satisfactorily with the legal covenants.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   Overall, the project is considered to be marginally satisfactory. The objectives of expanding the
agricultural base and diversifying sources of foreign exchange were met, and the re-estimated rates of
return for the project are favorable. (The financial rates of return are estimated at 26% for coffee and
43% for cut flowers; the economic rate of return is estimated at 44%.) However, the objective of raising
rural incomes was not achieved to the extent expected. Commercial farmers were successful in adopting
new technology packages with access to credit, confuting earlier beliefs by financing institutions that



-9-
long-term lending to agriculture was not feasible. But the participation of smallholders was limited.
Until recently, smallholders did not have access to improved, disease-resistant planting material, and will
have to bear relatively high maintenance costs in the future. They are now receiving improved varieties,
but the problem of access to credit remains and may be resolved only over the medium term as a result of
the pilot schemes involving outgrowers and input credit supply through stockists and processors.
Therefore, on balance, the project rated as marginally satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.    The commercial coffee and cut flower farms established under the project will be run on a
commercial basis, as they are now operated. The marketing of coffee will be carried out by the ZCGA.
Cut flower growers will also benefit from the support services provided by the producer's association -
Zambia Export Crop Growers Association - for domestic handling and air-freighting.
37.    The future of smallholder coffee is not yet clear. The MAFF will continue to provide the
extension service by integrating smallholder coffee within ASIP. With regard to marketing of their
coffee, however, the MAFF is still exploring several possibilities, including that of using the Fair Trade
Initiative. Under the fair Trade initiative, NGOs and other development oriented marketing entities
promote selected commodities in niche markets. Smallholder coffee is a potential candidate for this
initiative. If the collection and bulking of smallholder coffee is resolved, export can be carried out by
ZCGA in the same manner as that of commercial producers.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
38.    The following lessons can be drawn from the implementation of Coffee II:
Lessons Learned
39.    Major lessons learned from Coffee 11 are:
(a)  The flexible design and project's ability to respond positively to the changing
economic environment resulted in accelerated project implementation, albeit through
commercial farmers. It would have been desirable to extend this flexibility to the
exploration of further options for smallholder participation.
(b)  It is important for export-based agricultural enterprises to have the best available
technology to ensure quality, and to have sound marketing strategies. Access to
credit greatly facilitates the acquisition of technology.
(c)  Lack of access to credit was a major reason for the limited progress of the smallholder
component. However, financing for smallholders needs to be addressed as part of the
broader issue of rural finance, and may include elements such as outgrower schemes
for cash crops and input credit through stockists and processors.
(d)  Quality is of utmost importance in the export market and becomes a common goal for
all exporters regardless of their scale of operation. Smallholders growing disease-



-10-
prone varieties could cause an adverse reaction in the market, and therefore they need
to adopt the same cropping packages (including improved planting material) as
commercial farmers.
(e)  Research should be oriented to the needs of the farmer. Disease- resistant coffee
varieties from neighboring countries should be utilized, and recommendations should
be made available to farmers in a timely manner.
(f)  Industry-based institutions such as the Zambia Coffee Board are more likely to be
effective on a sustainable basis than public sector institutions with a similar purpose.



- 11-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantiial    Paial      Negligible  NotApplicable
09)           (60          09)           09)
Macro policies                                    FLI           FZI            L 
Sector policies                       FI]                       FI E0
Financial objectives                 [                ]          E             L
Institutional development            ED            FE           El             Li
Physical objectives                  [n]           Fg1           El            ED
Poverty reduction                      l              E         ED             ED
Gender issues                        E-l           ED           El             L
Other social objectives              Fl            El           [P1            ED
Enviromnental objectives             [I            El           FE             ID
Public sector management             El            [I]          El             [ID
Private sector development           [El             ]          El             El
Other (specify)                      El            El            El            El
B. Proiect sustainability            LikeY        Unlikely    Uncertain
(E9)          09)          09)
I 91      El           El
C. Bsank erformance               satisfactory    Satisfactory   12eficin
09)           0`0          (s
Identification                     El           F31           El
Preparation assistance            El            [  
Appraisal                          El                         El
Supervision                       El            [F]           El



-12-
D. Borrowerperformance            satisfacoy    Safisfactorv   Deficien
09)          (9,1)       0:0
Preparation                       a[  EH
Implementation                   E ]                        a
Covenant compliance              E                            ] E
Operation (if applicable)       ED             W          E]
HihIY                                      Hillv
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfacto   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
Oi_)         W;0            09)            09)
El]         [I'1 '                            ]
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                       Purpose                    Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Coffee Technical Assistance    Establish a coffee estate and a pilot   1978      Completed
smallholder coffee scheme
Following operations
1. Agricultural Research and  Strengthen extension by introducing training  1986    Completed
Extension                     and visit system, and establish linkage with
research
2. Agricultural Marketing and  Support road infrastructure and the private  1992    On-going
Processing                    sector to be involved in marketing and
processing of agricultural commodities
3. Agricultural Sector Invest-  Sector development by making more         1995      On-going
ment Programme                effective use of donor and GRZ resources.
Marginally satisfactory.



-13-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned              Date actual/
I   _ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ __ _  ___latest  estim ate
Identification/Preparation a/                             1985                    1985
Appraisal                                             March 1986               March 1986
Negotiations                                        October 14, 1986       October 21-24, 1986
Board presentation                                   December 1986          November 25, 1986
Signing                                             January 9, 1987          January 9, 1987
Effectiveness                                         June 9, 1987            March 16,1992
Project restrucWring                                       -                 November, 1991
Project completion                                     June, 1999            December, 1996
Credit closing                                       June 30, 1999          December 31, 1996
a Prepared by Govemment with the assistance of consultants and World Bank Staff during varying periods of
1985.
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ MILLION)
Yr I     Yr2      Yr3      Yr4       Yr 5       Yr6       Yr7        Yr 8       Yr9
FY 92   FY 93    FY 94    FY 95    FY 96        FY 97       -          -          -
Appraisal           1.0      2.40     4.60     7.80      11.60     14.40      16.80       19.2     20.4
estimate i
Actual             0.60      1.60     2.29      7.57     10.96     22.06
Actual as % of       60        67       50       97         94       153
estimate
Undisbursed       2.606i
Balance
Date of final
disbursement
a The appraisal estimates referred to above as years I to 9 were expected to begin in FY 1987
and finish in FY 1995. However, this did not materialize due to the suspension of
disbursement to all World Bank assisted projects during the period 1987-91. Only US$ 0.67
million were disbursed in 1987 under the PPF.
b/ As of January 1997.



-14-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                                 Unit           Estimated      Actual
Participating Farmers
Small Farmers                            No.              1, 100        985
Commercial Farmers                       No.               105          40
Farmers Groups formed                    No.               28           44
Planting Targets
Small Farmers                            Ha.              450           320
Commercial Farmers                        Ha.             2,800        1,550
Production Targets
Small Farmers                            Tons              520          258
Commercial Farmers                       Tons             4,180        3,875
Employment Creation
a) Skilled
Small Farmers                            No.              59            42
Commercial Farmers                       No.              280           155
b) Unskilled
Small Farmers                            No.              540          386
Commercial Farmers                       No.             3,640         2,015
Training
a) Farmers Training
Field Days                           No. of farmers         0          2,178
Leadership Seminars for Groups       No. of farmers         0           36
Mobile courses                       No. of farmers         0          1,209
Study Tours to other province        No. of famers          0            18
b) Staff Training                                          Number    Attendance
Seminars at Farm Institutes         Staff in Seminar       0            83
Short-term overseas
Kenya coffee industry              Staff in Tour         3            11
Uganda coffee industry             Staff in Tour         1            2
South Africa coffee industry      Staff in Tour          1            6
Tanzania coffee industry          Staff in Tour          1            9
Annual Extension Workshops          Staff in Seminar       3            55
c) Marketing                                              Number
Study Gourmet Market                 Staff in Tour         1            2
Coffee liquoring - Kenya             Staff in Tour         1            5
Market facilities tour               Staff in Tour         I             I
I.T.C. Seminar, Lusaka              Staff in Seminar       1            34
(attended by Banks, Farmers,
Govt. Officials, Coffee Board
ZCGA and ZNFU)



-15-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
1.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                 Estimated                          Actual
I                                        NOT APPLICABLE
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisal/redefined     Status                 Impact of study
1. Project Facilitation  Enable start-up          Completed      The study could not be used because
Study on Research and                                          it fell into abeyance in 1987.
Extension
2. Extension Planning    Plan extension ope-      Completed      Was the basis for preparing the
Study                 rations                                  Coffee Extension Programme
3. Research Planning     Design research pro-     Completed      Minimal impact because emphasized
Study                 granume                                  long-term research.
4. Nursery Design &      Expand nursery capa-     Completed      Major impact in introducing clonal
Management            city                                    technology.



-16-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate          Latest estimate
(US$'000)                  (US$'000)
Component                       Local       Foreign      Total          Total
costs        costs
1. Credit                      7,738         11,607     19,345       19,677
Farmers Contribution             a/          - a/       - a/       4,919 b/
2. Extension                     920          1,652       2,572       1,525
3. Research                      204            397        601          518
4. Marketing                      57            356        413          165
5. Assistance to ZCCL           1,130         3,023       4,153
6. Project Management Unit          -             -           -        251
7. Physical Price              3,018          4,805       7,823
Contingencies
TOTAL                         13,067        21,840      34,907      27,055
hiIncluded under the credit component.
bi Estimated at 25% of the credit disbursed.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate            Latest estimate
l_____________________        (US$'000)                    (US$'000)
Source
GRZ                               1,200                    77 a/
Participating Banks               3,900                                         l
Farmers                           6,400                 4,919
ZCCL                              3,000
IDA                              20,400                22,059
TOTAL                            34,900                27,055
a/ GRZ contribution in US Dollar terms is low because of the marked depreciation of the local
currency during the project implementation period. In addition, the staff costs related to
extension and research are not included as they are part of the existing government
programme.



-17-
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
At project completion, an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 44% has been estimated. Assumptions and
basis for the analysis are given in Appendix B. The newly estimated ERR is about double the rate
estimated at appraisal because of the higher coffee yields that are being achieved by the commercial
farmers and of the considerable production of cut flowers. The production of cut flowers was not
foreseen at appraisal, as this was introduced during project implementation.



-18-
TABLE 10: STATUS OE LEGAL COVENANTS
(Page 1)
Agreement  Covenant Present   Original    Revised            Description of covenant            Comments
Section    type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
DCA
2.02 (b)       I        C                            (i) Open Coffee 11 Special Account for Part A
at the Bank of Zambia
2.02 (b)       I        C                            (ii) Open Special Account (Coffee Extension
Marketing Special Account) for Part B
(extension) and D (marketing) of the project
at the Zambia National Commercial Bank
2.02 (b)       I        C                            (iii) Open a MAFF (Coffee Research Special
Account) to carry out Part C (Research
Component).
2.02 (b)       I        C                            (iv) Open ZCCL Special Account for Part B   ZCCL has been pri-
at the Zambia National Commercial Bank.    vatized, the account
is non-operational
3.01 (b)       5       C                             (i) Borrower shall cause participating banks
to carry out Part A of the project.
3.01 (b)       5        C                            (ii) Cause ZCB to carry out Part B & D of the
project.
3.01 (b)       5        C                            (iii) Cause ZCCI to carry out its obligations   ZCCL is privatized.
under the credit.                     Its obligations are
reverted to MAFF.
3.03 (a)       5        C                            Establish and maintain a Project Mana-
gement Coordinating Committee to be
chaired by PS of MAFF with the secretariat
in ZCB.
3.04 (a)      3        C                             (i) Relend the amount allocated to and
withdrawn under Category I of Schedule I to
participating banks to carrying out Part A of
the project under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between borrowers and each PB.
3.04 (a)      3        CP                            (ii) Relend in foreign currency amounts  Not valid since
allocated to and withdrawn under Category 5  ZCCL is privatized.
to ZCCL for carrying out Part B of the
project under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between Borrower and ZCCL.
3.05           3        C                            The Borrower shall make available to ZCB a
grant not exceeding US$ 2,000,000 to carry
out Part B of the project and an amount not
exceeding US$ 400,000 to carry out Part D
of the project.



-19-
Agreement  Covenant Present   Original    Revised             Description of covenant             Comments
Section    type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
3.08          10        C                 6/30/87    (a) Enact a Coffee Act not later than 6/30/87
3.08          10        C                 12/31/87    (b) Not later than 12131/87 to establish
Coffee Board
3.09          10        C                            Borrower to open 2 Project Advance
Accounts in the Bank of Zambia to carry out
Part B & C of the project
3.12           6       NC                            Borrower to submit list of pesticides and
herbicides to be used by ZCCL and sub-
borrowers
4.01           1        C                            Annual audited accounts not more than 6
months after the end of the financial year
4.02           1        C                            Cause participating banks to maintain
accounts for Kwacha and foreign currency
loans.
Sch. 1         I       CP                            (a) Borrower to submit to the Association a   Agreernent has cea-
Part 3                                                signed Subsidiary Grant Agreement with  sed to be operational
ZCCL.                                  since ZCCL is pri-
vatized.
Sch. I    ,   I        CP                            (b) Expenditures by ZCCL to be incurred  Not valid since
Par 3                                                 only after: (i) an irrigation plan of the ZCCL   ZCCL was privatized
plantation is prepared acceptable to IDA; (ii)  and not part of the
an electrification plan of ZCCL coffee  project.
factory, acceptable to IDA; (iii) a ZCCL
corporate plan acceptable to IDA and
adopted by ZCCL; and (iv) satisfactory
equity financing agreements for ZCCL to
have been executed.
Convenant Typ                                    Present Status
I Accounts/audit                                                C = Covenant complied with
2 Financial Perfornance/operating revenue from beneficiaries    CD  Complied with after delay
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                         CP  Complied with partially
4 Counterpart funds                                             NC  Not complied with
5 Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
II Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



-20-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Agreement    Loan/Credit          Text        Convenant    Status        Description      Comments
Number        Reference      Class (es)                 of Covenant
NOT APPLICABLE
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                        Planned                   Revised                   Actual
project cycle
Weeks       US$' 000      Weeks       US$'000      Weeks    US$' 000
Preparation to                                                                  202.0      251.2
appraisal
Negotiations through                                                             28.2       34.6
Board approval
Supervision                                                                     182.2      191.3
Implementation                                                                   11.0        n.a.
Completion
TOTAL                                                                          412        477.1



-21-
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Perfonnance rating
Stage of                    Number                   Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
project cycle       Month/       of       Days m       staff skills      tation          ment          Types of
year     persons     field       represented i     status        objectives b/   problems    l
Preparation d/          10-11/85
Appraisal               03186          7         126      A,C,E,F,M,PP,T
Negotiation             10/86          2          8       E, F
Supervision I (start-up)    11/86      1          9       A                    HS ei           HS '
Supervision 2           03/87          1          9       A                      S              S             PM
Supervision 3           9-10/92       2          42       PP, E                  5              5           PM, FU
Supervision 4           03/93          2         32       PP, E                  U              U          PM, FU, P
Supervision 5           10/93          2          tO      A, E
Supervision 6           12/93          4         45       PP, E, E, E            S              S           PM, L, P
Supervision 7           05/95          2          18      F, F                   5              5           PM, FU
Supervision 8           06/96   |      2          28      PP, E                  5              5           PM, FU
Supervision9f           11/96         2           10      F,DP
A = Agriculturalist; C = Credit Specialist; E = Economist; F = Financial Analyst; M = Marketing Specialist; PP = Coffee Production and
Processing Specialist; T = Training Specialist; DP = Disbursement and Procurement Analyst.
HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory.
d PM = Project Management; FU = Availability of Funds; P = Procurement; L = Compliance with legal covenants.
/ Prepared by Govemment with the assistance of consultants. No details available.
d Refers to the implementation of the PPF.
fFonm 590 was not completed.



-22-
APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE



-23-
IMLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMB&
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(Cr. 1743-ZA)
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A mission' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program visited Zambia from 16
January to 6 February 1997 to prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) for the Second
Coffee Project (Coffee II). The mission worked with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries (MAFF), the Project Management Unit (PMU), Bank of Zambia (BOZ), Zambia Coffee
Board (ZCB), Zambia Coffee Growers Association (ZCGA), Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ)
and with Zambia National Commercial Bank (ZANACO). Field visits were undertaken in the
Northern, Copperbelt and Central Provinces and discussion were held with farmers.
2.     The mission is grateful to the Project Coordinator and to the Staff of the MAFF for their
assistance and cooperation. The Mission's preliminary findings and conclusions are presented
below, and are subject to confirmation by IDA Management.
B. BACKGROUND
3.     Coffee II was appraised in March 1986 and approved in November of the same year. A
credit of SDR 16.9 million (US20.4 million) was signed on January 9,1987, but became effective
about five years later. Effectiveness was delayed until the suspension of the World Bank
disbursement to Zambia, which had commenced in May 1987, ended in the second half of 1991.
Following the resumption of disbursement to Zambia, and a review of the project in November
1991, the project was declared effective on March 16, 1992, with a closing date of June 30, 1999.
4.     The project's main objectives were to expand Zambia's agricultural base; to diversify its
source of foreign exchange earning and to provide an additional income to the rural people. This
was to be achieved by establishing about 3,300 ha of irrigated coffee plantations, capable of
producing 4,700 tons of high quality arabica coffee, annually. The project, to be implemented over
a seven-year period consisted of:
(a)  Provision of credit to farmers for coffee production and processing through
participating commercial banks (PBs);
P. Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, FAO) and A. Finney (Coffee Production and
Processing Specialist, Consultant)



-24-
(b)  Strengthening the Coffee Development Division of the Lint Company of
Zambia (LINTCO) by providing technical assistance, training and vehicles in
order to provide extension service to small farmers.
(c)  Strengthening the MAFF's coffee research through the provision of civil
works, technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies.
(d)  Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training to strengthen coffee
marketing.
(e)  Provision of funds to Zambia Coffee Company Limited (ZCCL) to
strengthen its management and expand coffee area.
5.    Overall project implementation responsibility was to be vested with the MAFF, and
coordination among the implementation institutions was to be effected by a Project Management
and Coordination Committee (PMCC). Apart from the implementation agencies, i.e the PBs,
LINTCO, ZCCL and the Coffee Research Establishment, the Ministry of Finance and the National
Commission for Development Planning were also members of the PMCC. LINTCO was
designated to provide a Project Co-ordinator and secretarial services to the PMCC. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was given to LINTCO to finance technical assistance, equipment and
vehicles necessary to plan and prepare extension service.
C. PROJECT REVIEW AND RESTRUCTURING
6.    Several changes had taken place since project appraisal, the most important of all being the
political reform in which a multi-party system was introduced, and the subsequent defeat of the
ruling party in November 1991. After taking office, the new Government introduced budget
austerity measures which included cutting subsidies and privatizing parastatal organizations. This
has affected two implementing agencies, i.e. LINTCO, which withdrew from handling smallholder
coffee, and ZCCL which was targeted for privatization. Other changes were: the promulgation of
the Coffee Act in 1989, which instituted the ZCB to be responsible for regulating and promoting the
coffee industry, and for advising the government on coffee matters; and the establishment of the
Zambia Coffee Growers Association (ZCGA), which was empowered by the Coffee Act to register
coffee growers, roasters and exporters.
7.    Given these changes, the Project was restructured to take account of the new situation. The
major restructuring consisted in the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU), under
MAFF, to replace LINTCO in carrying out the coordination role; the substitution of ZCCL by
ZCGA in implementing the coffee marketing component; the inclusion of BOZ to channel funds to
farmers through the PBs; and the de facto substitution of the PMCC by the ZCB.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
General
8.    Project implementation did not start until about a year after effectiveness, when the MAFF
established the PMU with the appointment of the Project Coordinator. The delay was mainly due
to lengthy deliberations on how to channel project funds to the PMU, without subjecting it to time



-25-
consuming and bureaucratic ministerial procedures. When a decision was made, in mid 1993, to
channel the funds through the ZCB, implementation of all project components started to move
rapidly except credit. The delay for this component was due to difficulties faced with regard to
Kwacha lending, given the galloping inflation and the rapid depreciation of the Kwacha. Therefore,
adjustments were made to the credit component to allow the PBs to operate in foreign exchange.
Further, the PBs were made free to fix their own interest rates, removing the maximum interest
margin established at appraisal. After these adjustments, the credit component also started to move
and sub-loan approvals were made in early 1994. In the same year, the credit component was
restructured to include other export crops such as cut flowers. Cognizant of the need to incorporate
the coffee project into the Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) and being aware of the
accelerated utilization of the credit component, the Bank suggested bringing forward the credit
closing date. As a result, the closing date was set for December 31, 1996.
Coffee Development Credit
9.    In terms of money, credit was the largest component, accounting for about 55% of total
project costs and 76% of the IDA credit. At appraisal, it was estimated that 92% of the credit
would be channelled to commercial farmers and 8% to small farmers. At completion, all the credit,
US$ 19.3 million, was taken up by commercial farmers. About 65% of the credit went for Coffee
development and the remainder for cut flowers. Smallholders could not benefit from the credit,
because the PBs did not consider them creditworthy, given their large scale defaulting records and
their inability to furnish tangible security in terms of land based property. This has reduced the
participation of smallholders who could not make investments as foreseen at appraisal.
10.   The total credit supplied was higher than planned, because of the appreciation of the SDR
vis-a-vis the US$ over the past years, and the reallocation of funds from other components to credit.
The two PBs which implemented the credit component, DBZ and ZANACO, have disbursed about
80% and 20% of the credit respectively. ZANACO's share is lower due to a management decision
not to overstretch their agricultural lending as they were under a re-structuring program. The entire
credit was disbursed in about two and a half years, and approval and disbursement of sub-loans was
faster during the last year, indicating an improvement of performance over time. Other commercial
banks chose not to participate, apparently feeling uncomfortable with long-term lending to
agriculture. The lending experience, as explained by borrowers, is described as costly. According
to borrowers, the legal, loan arrangement and transaction fees were expensive.
11.   The credit funds have benefitted 28 commercial coffee farmers and 10 cut flower
producers. Total area established under coffee and cut flowers amounted to 1,550 and 20 ha,
respectively. The majority of coffee planted by commercial farmers consisted of disease resistant
hybrids, imported from neighboring countries. Most of the commercial farms are equipped with
drip irrigation and benefit from modern production and management practices. Commercial
growers have also invested in modern processing facilities to produce high quality, washed coffee.
Producers of cut flowers employ high technology and automatized, irrigated greenhouses. The
technology, which is imported from Europe on a turn key basis, is linked to the marketing of
flowers, which are generally roses.
Extension and Smallholder Coffee
12.   In 1986 LINTCO had commenced preparatory work in organizing smallholders using the
PPF. This had created high expectations with farmers, but these were dampened when the project



-26-
did not continue as expected, and LINTCO pulled out abruptly in early 1992. Smallholders with
about 200 ha of coffee established under the First Coffee Project, were therefore left to themselves.
Since LINTCO was also doing the marketing, they were unable to sell their coffee. As a result, all
the coffee was abandoned, and within two years 95% had died. Things started to turn round with
the revival of the extension service under Coffee II. In the second half of 1993, the Extension
Manager was appointed and installed in the Northern Province. Subsequently, two extension
specialists were also recruited for Luapula and the Copperbelt to organize coffee extension in these
provinces. With the assistance of the Project personnel, the MAFF extension staff in Northern,
Luapula and Copperbelt provinces took up coffee extension service as one of their tasks. To this
effect, they were given training and transport facilities to organize farmers and to train them in
coffee production. Coffee extension focussed on smallholders only, as the commercial farmers
were able to access coffee production and processing technology on their own account.
13.    The extension service commenced by identifying and organizing farmers willing to
produce coffee into registered groups so that this could become the vehicle for delivering the
service. A farmer group comprises on average 25 members, located within a 5 km radius. Each
group is provided with its own coffee nursery constructed and maintained by the project. Since
viable coffee farming depends on irrigation, the groups are often widely dispersed according to the
availability of water resource. In addition, the project has endeavoured to include the farmers who
had coffee under the previous project regardless of their location. This factor makes extension
services relatively expensive. A farmer group is expected to be a focal point for primary processing
with shared hand-pulpers. At project completion, some 980 smallholders have been trained and
organized into 44 registered fanner groups. About half of these farmers are those which were
abandoned by the LINTCO extension service in earlier years. Some 0.93 million seedlings have
been produced by the groups, which were used to establish a total coffee area of about 320 ha. To
mitigate the effects of the non-availability of credit, the extension service distributed hand-pulpers
and minimal agricultural inputs for nursery and coffee development, with the understanding that
they would be repaid back by the farmers who have signed for these inputs. It should be
recognized, however, that this input supply system and the provision of nurseries free of cost, are
not sustainable. These are not the functions of extension, and their continuation will be costly and
not in line with current development policies. Further, they could create a problem for future
development by raising false expectations on the part of prospective coffee farmers.
14.    The coffee established by smallholders appear to be in good condition, although some plots
show signs of stress from insufficient irrigation during dry periods. All plantings up to 1996 have
been with varieties that are susceptible to coffee leaf rust (CLR) and coffee berry disease (CBD)
both of which are prevalent in the Northern Province. This is because the coffee research was not
able to supply resistant varieties or release them in agreement with other research institutions in the
region. At completion the mission observed that extension activities had declined to a low level
through lack of operational funds following the closure of the IDA credit. Government has decided
to allocate K 200 million to enable the continuation of the extension and smallholder coffee
development, until the time that the costs related to this component are fully integrated within
ASIP.
Coffee Research
15.   Project efforts were to be concentrated on Misamfu Regional Research Station. The
station, which was also supported under the First Coffee Project, was to be strengthened by
improving its capacity to carry out research that is relevant to the country's coffee industry. To this



-27-
effect, the project provided books and other publications, office equipment and vehicles,
operational funds, technical assistance and study tours to the staff.
16.    In spite of the support provided however, there has been little progress to improve the
research capacity at Misamfu. An expanded program was undertaken based on project funding with
the emphasis on long-term research rather than focussing on a few but critical needs of the farmers.
These included, fertilizer trials, spacing trials, irrigation intervals and efficiency, for which there are
alrady basic recommendations. The researchers lack of focus and poor prioritization is illustrated
by the delay in releasing disease resistant planting material, although CLR is endemic in northern
Province where Misamfu is located and CBD has been observed there since the mid-eighties. In
addition the station has does not provide a service for soil sample analysis, even though the
facilities for this are in place. Presently, with the closing of the IDA credit, Misamfu is not able to
sustain the expanded program or even maintain basic upkeep of existing experimental plots,
because of lack of funds. According to the coffee industry, the Misamfu research program is not in
line with their immediate needs, and they believe that important programs, such as the release of
new disease resistant varieties, should be carried out in collaboration with other countries in the
region.
17.    Following a suggestion by a World Bank supervision mission of April/May 1996, that
coffee research policy be defined by the concerned bodies, a two day meeting was held in July
1996. The meeting, in which all the relevant institutions participated, provided general guidelines
for research policy, the priorities for short- and medium-term research and the possibilities of
financing research from a levy on coffee. The meeting also recognized the need for public and
private sector research and for regional co-operation, but made no clear demarcation as to which
topics would be suitable to each sector. Moreover, no action plan was prepared, and follow-up
responsibilities and activities were not spelled out.
Development of Coffee Marketing
18.    The project's objective to strengthen coffee marketing was accomplished by developing the
capability of ZCGA to export coffee profitably. The Association's understanding of international
coffee marketing and assessment of coffee quality have been enhanced under the project. This was
achieved through the provision of training, office and liquoring equipment. ZCGA is now able to
confidently advise its members on quality control, grading and export preparation, and to negotiate
for the best prices.
Project Management Unit
19.    The PMU, which consisted of the Project Coordinater and a secretary, was the pivotal point
of the project. The PMU was able to coordinate the activities of the implementing agencies and
signal any difficulties encountered to the project authorities, often by proposing solutions. By
becoming an important linkage between BOZ, PBs and borrowing farmers, the PMU has succeeded
in facilitating the resolution of credit related issues as they arise. Regarding extension and
smallholder coffee development, it has endeavored to mitigate the effects of lack of financing by
convincing project authorities to provide some inputs under the project to start the development of
smallholder coffee. The PMU was an efficient setup, using limited resources.



-28-
Project costs and financing
20.    Total project costs amounted to K28,2 10 million or US$26.4 million, equivalent to 76 % of
the appraisal estimates, in dollar terms. The costs were lower because of the exclusion of the
ZCCL component and the reduced expenditures on extension, research and marketing. IDA
disbursed U$2 1.2 million, slightly higher than US$20.4 million envisaged at appraisal. In SDR
terms, disbursement amounted to 14.86 million, and 2.04 million remain undisbursed.
Project Impact
21.    The project has made a significant contribution to the country's economy in expanding its
agriculture base and diversifying the source of foreign exchange earnings. The coffee and cut
flower farms developed under the project will yield attractive financial and economic returns to the
farmers and to the country, respectively. However, the project's impact within smallholders was
limited, as all the development credit was provided to the commercial farmers. This has minimized
the attainment of another objective, which was to increase income of the rural population.
Although the project did not monitor possible environrmental hazards, this is believed to have been
minimal. Smaliholders use small quantities of agro-chemicals, because they cannot afford them,
and they practice dry pulping of cherry in situ, with no adverse effect on the environment.
Commercial farmers appear to be conscious of the effect of agro-chemicals on the land and on the
crop produced. However, they use a carbamate based, systemic insecticide (Temik), which is toxic;
believing that a 90 day withholding before harvest will minimize risks. The validity of this
approach is doubtful, considering the log-term effect on the crop and on pest resistance.
Commercial fanns also have systems for separation of coffee pulp and disposal of processing
effluent.
Bank and Borrower Performance
22.    The performance of both the Borrower and the Bank during project formulation and
throughout the implementation has been satisfactory. The Bank's supervision missions were
supportive to the project and responsive to calls for assistance in resolving problems. The several
amendments to the DCA were made in this spirit. The flexibility shown by the Government in
modifying project management arrangements, the redesign of the credit component, and the
compliance with all the legal covenants are examples of the Government's commitment to the
project. However, the inability to come up with some imaginative ideas for channelling credit to
smallholder coffee producers should be considered as their major shortcoming.
E. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
23.    The large coffee units developed with project support will continue to be operated
commercially in a sustainable manner. Being specialized in producing high value arabica coffee
under irrigation, commercial coffee producers will not be affected seriously in the case of a decline
in international prices. Little risk is also foreseen for the cut flower producers, because they are
strongly linked with inputs and technology suppliers and flower buyers in Europe. As long as the
marketing arrangements remain in place, cut flower production will be a sustainable business.
24.   Coffee extension and research are expected to be integrated within ASIP. In the interim,
funds for coffee extension have ceased flowing to the field after the project closed, thus putting
smallholder coffee at risk again. The MAFF has allocated some extraordinary funds to continue the



-29-
extension service and proposes to support smaliholder coffee in the future as part of its normal
operations. It should be noted, however, that the sustainability of smailholder coffee is also
dependent on the availability of reliable credit and a marketing system for the output. So far, such
systems have not developed. Hence there is a question mark on the future of smallholder coffee
development.
25.    The following lessons can be learned from the implementation experience of the project:
smallholder production can be revived if farmers are approached by a convincing extension service;
the collapse of smallholder coffee established by the previous project is a clear indication that
sustainable coffee development will not emerge without an assured market outlet; smallholder
coffee growing will be limited if credit for financing investments does not reach these producers;
long term agricultural credit for export crop development can be enhanced if it is foreign exchange
based; expansion of commercial coffee will be limited in many areas by labour supply; research
should aim to adopt results obtained by extemal research instead of committing resources to
produce the same results domestically; and commercial farmers are apt to import new technical
know-how if the crop they will produce is financially attractive and sustained by adequate credit.
F. NEXT STEPS
26.    The mission will prepare a draft ICR upon return to Rome. This will be submitted to IDA
by the end of February, 1997.



-30-
APPENDIX B
NOTE ON COFFEE AND CUT FLOWER DEVELOPMENT AND IMPACT



-31-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
Cr. 1743-ZA
NOTE ON COFFEE AND CUT FLOWER DEVELOPMENT AND IMPACT
A. COFFEE
General
I .    Zambia emerged as a producer and exporter of mild arabica coffee during the 1980s. Up
to 1980, coffee was a minor crop, with production below 300 tons per year. Expansion then took
place, starting with two parastatal companies (both subsequently privatized), which together
planted 750 hectares of irrigated coffee in the North and in the Copperbelt. Commercial farmers
who were already engaged in maize and other crops, began planting coffee from 1984, reaching
an area of 1,600 ha by 1990. The collapse of coffee prices in 1990 slowed down coffee
development, but with the recovery in prices in 1993, commercial farms started expanding coffee
once again. This received an additional stimulus when credit became available under Coffee II
project. By the end of 1996, commercial coffee had reached a new level of about 2,600 ha. About
95% of production is from Northern, Copperbelt and Central provinces. Growing conditions in
these zones are generally favourable. Disease incidence is moderate and high yields are possible
with irrigation. At the current costs of inputs, Zambia is a relatively low-cost producer and has a
comparative advantage over many producers of mild arabica coffee.
2.     During the 1980s, the Government also encouraged smallholder coffee growing. Under
the First Coffee Project, assisted by the World Bank, a pilot smallholder coffee development
program established about 200 ha. However, the Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO), which
had been responsible for marketing smallholder coffee, ceased its involvement in 1992 and
smallholder production, which had reached 50 tons per year, rapidly collapsed. Planting re-
started in 1994 with Coffee II, reaching an area of about 320 ha by the end of 1996.
The Commercial Coffee Sector
3.    Production systems. Coffee is usually cultivated as one enterprise in an agri-business
that includes maize, soyabean, wheat or beef. Production technology is generally modelled on
Zimbabwe coffee farming where conditions are similar to Zambia. Commercial blocks vary
beetween 30 to 80 ha, with drip irrigation systems, and 60 ha is the most prevalent farm size.
Larger blocks are the exception because of labour scarcity at peak harvesting periods.
Management standards are excellent, and include high levels of fertilizing, disease control (for
leaf rust and cercospora) and a six-year production cycle before ratooning. Commercial coffee
in Zambia is estimated to employ about 0. I skilled persons per ha and 1.3 unskilled persons per



-32-
ha of mature coffee. However, commercial farms experience a scarcity of labour, and therefore
avoid labour-intensive, annual pruning as found in other countries. Hence, a short cycle of six
years with little or no pruning until ratooning. With this method, about 16% of the blocks are out
of production at any one time. Yields are high in the middle of the cycle in years 3, 4, 5 and 6
(3 to 3.5 ton per ha) but very little in the two years after ratooning. Taking into account the
ratooning coffee and the low yields during the two years after ratooning, average yields over the
six-year cycle are about 2.5 tons per ha. At this level of yields, production costs are estimated at
about US$ 920 per ton of clean coffee (Table 1). All commercial farms have a program of
replacing the old varieties with new disease resistant hybrids which require no fungicide
applications. This is expected to reduce costs by about 15%. These farms all have a pulpery and
practice wet processing to produce good quality coffee parchment. Almost all farrns own a dry
mill to have green coffee prepared, graded and sorted, ready for the market. The average price is
US$ 2,800 per ton FOB Dar-es-salaam or Durban, giving a farmgate price of US$ 2,550 per ton
(para. 25).
4.     Marketing. All producers are members of the Zambia Coffee Growers Association
(ZCGA). This Association provides a marketing service and also negotiates short-term crop
financing for growers, based on recorded production levels. Prices obtained during the past three
crop years have been attractive and close to those achieved by Kenya, which has a reputation for
high quality. This reflects both improved quality of the product and improved marketing skills on
the part of ZCGA.
Comparative Coffee Prices for Zambia and Kenya Coffees
Zambia (ZCGA)             Kenya
Year            US $/Ton (1)          US S/Ton (2)
1991/92              1,495                1,925
1992/93              1,527                2,245
1993/94              1,973                2,968
1994/95             3,856                 3,565
1995/96              2,485                2,585
1996/97 (Est)        2,550                2,715
(1) Port price Durban or Dar Es Salaam.
(2) Port price Mombasa.
5.     Project impact. Twenty-eight commercial farmers have accessed the credit provided
under Coffee II, and planted out 1,550 ha of new coffee from 1994 to the end of 1996. The
incremental production from commercial farm coffee will be about 3,900 tons annually at full
development, with a value of about US$10 million. The establishment costs for new coffee,
where no infrastructure already existed, is estimated at US$ 7,390 per ha (Table l). For this type
of investment, the financial rate of return for a typical 60 ha farm is estimated at about 26% and
a net income of US$ 3,200 per ha can be expected (Table 1). However, for many of the
investments there was already a considerable infrastructure in the form of irrigation, access
roads, field equipment, and cleared land. In these cases, the establishment costs for coffee were



-33-
considerably less than the figure given above and the rate of return for these investments was
correspondingly higher. The project also provided essential equipment for quality assessment
and training on marketing methods to the ZCGA. This resulted in improved quality assessment,
grading and export presentation, and developed a wider range of selling techniques, which, from
1996, included know-how on "forward selling" part of the Zambian crop.
6.     Outlook for commercial farm coffee. This is generally very favourable. Commercial
coffee is run as an agri-business with high management standards which maximize yields and
quality, while aiming to maintain or reduce unit costs. Risks are hence low. Even with a 30-
40% drop in prices, commercial farm coffee would remain a profitable enterprise. However,
expansion of the area under coffee will be limited by the availability of labour, especially for
seasonal tasks such as harvesting. This may encourage some commercial growers to adopt
mechanical harvesting, which could lower quality.
The Smallholder Coffee Sector
7.     Production systems. Generally, this is a low input/low output farming system in which
coffee is the cash crop cultivated with other food crops such as maize, beans, groundnuts and
cassava. The most representative farm size of coffee is about 0.4 ha, which is the estimated limit
that can be properly maintained by one family. Coffee plots are irrigated from a furrow usually
maintained and shared by a registered farmer group of about 25 members. Use of inputs, such as
fertilizers, is less than optimal, because farmer groups are far from supply sources, which
increases costs. Poor furrow maintenance often results in water stress, and mulching is practiced
by a minority of farmers. Yield levels from mature coffee are about 0.8 tons per hectare of clean
coffee. Processing is done with manually operated pulpers, which can produce an acceptable
quality of coffee, provided subsequent fermenting and drying by farmers is carefully done.
Establishment costs are estimated at US$ 1,053 per hectare - about 14% of the corresponding
cost for commercial coffee (Table 2). At yields of 800 kg per hectare, production costs are
estimated at US$ 0.90 per kg, as compared to US$ 0.92 for commercial coffee (Table 2).
Smallholder coffee is milled and graded, and the green coffee sorted by the nearest private dry
mill. At present, the gross margin per hectare of smallholder coffee is US$ 1,354. The returns
per man day for coffee are estimated at US$ 2.70, almost three times the on-going labour rate.
8.     Marketing. During the period 1986-91, LINTCO provided coffee marketing services to
small growers and also the provision of inputs and extension. However, the costs in 1991
amounted to about 60% of the value of the crop, which discouraged many farmers from growing
coffee. After LINTCO abruptly ceased its coffee activities in 1992, there was no channel for
marketing the smallholder production, with the result that fields were abandoned, and small-
scale production collapsed until the start-up of Coffee II. About 70 tons of coffee will be
produced in 1998. Due to the scattered nature of smallholder farms, the collection, transporting
and bulking of small lots is a major problem. In the absence of any marketing arrangements, the
extension service acquired a vehicle to collect and bulk these small lots on behalf of the growers.
This is not a function of extension and is not sustainable. Continuation of smallholder
production will depend on the farmer groups being able to organize the collection, transport,
bulking and milling of coffee ready for sale. International marketing will be assured through
ZCGA, where small growers are also represented. ZCGA is exploring the possibility of
registering smallholders with the Fair Trade Initiative (Max Havelaar organization), which
would offer them a stable price for their output.



-34-
9.     Project results. These are summarized in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR),
Part II, Table 5. Due to the late start-up, the smallholder planting are well below target, as noted
below. Some of the targets have been exceeded, for example formation of farmer groups. All of
the vehicles and office equipment were procured and 40 nurseries were established, which have
produced about 930,000 seedlings for distribution to farmers. Some 44 farmer groups, with a
total of 984 growers, have planted out 320 ha of coffee by the end of 1996, with sufficient
seedlings in the nurseries to plant out an additional 95 ha in 1997. Development of the nurseries,
and supply of basic inputs for establishing the plantings, has all been financed by project funds,
including hand pulpers sufficient to process about 350 tons of coffee.
Unit          Target at full
Item                                      development          Actual (1996)
Farmer group                No               28                 44
Participating farmers       No            1,100                984
Area planted                ha              450                320
Yields                      kg/ha           750                900
Production                  tons            430                N.A.
Training of farmers         No            4,900                984
Skilled employment         jobs              58                 42
Unskilled employment        jobs            540                386
10.    Status and sustainability. The extension component has re-created an infrastructure for
small-scale coffee production in Zambia. From virtually zero in 1994, the small-scale growers
now account for about 10% of the total area under coffee. Although appreciable, in terms of
coffee area planted, the smallholder sector has several features which make sustainability
precarious. Firstly, coffee is a new crop for many of the growers. Extension support is needed to
ensure that the current plantings are brought into bearing. If this is not forthcoming, the
momentum could be lost, leading to poor production performance. Secondly, credit is not
available to smaliholders to procure inputs necessary for mature, producing coffee - in
particular fertilizers, and in the case of the SL28 varieties, fungicides. The project did supply
small amounts of inputs on credit for the establishment of the coffee on the understanding that
this would be deducted from the first coffee production. This supply has ceased on the
termination of the project, and no system has been established in its place. Thirdly, marketing
arrangements for smallholder coffee are not in place. The extension services made provisions
for collecting and bulking the small scattered amounts of parchment produced by the farmer
groups. About 3 tons were marketed in 1996 and about 10 tons are expected until mid-1997.
However, this marketing arrangement is not sustainable in the long run, and the future of
smallholder coffee depends heavily on the farmer groups acquiring the capacity to organize their
own local marketing.
I   Still immature Coffee.



-35-
Coffee Research
11.   The national research activities for coffee are concentrated at the Misamfu Regional
Research Station (Northern Province) which has sub-stations at Lucheche and Malashi.
Meaningful research started in 1959 with the evaluation of imported varieties from Kenya and
Tanzania. Subsequent research topics included pruning systems, evaluation of irrigation,
mulching, spacing, nutrient requirements and crop protection. A coffee handbook was published
in 1974 with emphasis on smallholder production which had started in the north of the country.
Some limited support came from the First Coffee Project which closed in 1985. In 1985, there
was one agronomist and three junior staff involved in coffee research. The commercial farmers
who started planting coffee in the Southern Province from 1983, being in a different agro-
climatic zone from the research station, tended to adopt the research results available from
Zimbabwe and Malawi.
12.   The main objectives of the research component were strengthening coffee research
capacity, principally at Misamfu. Although the project became effective in March 1992, there
was a one year delay in starting implementation until the Research Agronomist had been
appointed. Recruitment was completed in early 1994 and implementation took place during the
period 1994-96. The equipment, vehicles and technical assistance (TA) were supplied by the
project, research visits were made to neighbouring countries, and the coffee handbook was
revised. Mechanical field equipment was deemed unnecessary by research management. Lastly,
based on project funding, an ambitious research program for coffee was launched in 1994 with
emphasis on long term results:
(a)  Some 14 new field experiments and trials were laid out with corresponding
irrigation furrows. A further three new field experiments are scheduled for
1997.
(b)  An irrigated nursery was established with traditional SL28 variety and, from
1996, new catimor hybrids sourced from the commercial farms.
(c)  A seed garden of 0.5 ha SL28 has been established.
The Research work plan for 1996 alone was budgeted to cost US$ 0.31 million and the 1997
budget is approximately US$ 0.14 million (as against a total allocation in the Development
Credit Agreement of US$ 0.60 million).
13.   A serious problem of financing the expanded work program exists. During 1996, only
13% of the research budget was actually provided. Similarly, only 4% of the estimated sum for
inputs was received, and only 3% of the estimate for rehabilitation work. The proposed
rehabilitation of the processing facilities and housing was not done. No funds of any kind were
provided after October 1996. Field staff have been reduced and only 14 remain to look after
about 9 ha of trials and experimental plots. Essential field work, such as pruning, fertilizing,
mulching and pest control in the existing field trials, is more or less at a standstill.
14.   A planning seminar in mid-1996 has provided useful guidelines on policy and the
principle of collaborating with regional coffee research. In addition, the priorities for coffee
research as viewed by commercial growers and small-scale producers have been set out.



-36-
However, no clear demarcation of research areas appropriate to national as opposed to regional
research has yet emerged. The possible extent of coffee research to be carried out by the private
sector has not been clearly identified. Hence, it is not clear if the current research program at
Misamfu is appropriate or not for the coffee industry. For example, the trials at Misamfu on the
control of fungus diseases with chemical sprays, would seem to merit a low priority now that
there is widespread use in Zambia of resistant varieties which have been brought in from
neighbouring countries.
15.   The expanded research program at Misamfu was based on project funding which has
terminated, and research activities are now expected to be integrated within ASIP. The
sustainability will depend on the level of funding allocated under this program. The
uncertainties outlined earlier still remain, particularly long-term versus short-term oriented
research, and the question of defining the areas to be left to regional research (and the
corresponding funding needs) and those areas which are more appropriate for the national coffee
research efforts. When these are clarified, then a realistic national program could be defined.
B. CUT FLOWERS
Background
16.   Cut flower production is based almost entirely on roses for export. Investment in
Zambia started in 1989, and expanded steadily, reaching 45 ha by 1995 and 65 ha by the end of
1996, including the 20 ha established under Coffee II. Development has accelerated during the
past two years, as shown below, and is expected to increase by 20 ha during 1997:
Total Cut Flower Area (1989-96)
Year          1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994  1995  1996
Ha             3      7      14    21      28     35    45      65
Production Systems
17.    Production is based on controlled environment, greenhouse technology. Most of the
investments are a "turn-key" type. Structures, equipment, growing technology, planting material
and marketing arrangements are supplied as an integrated package for the investor. The
greenhouses are usually highly automated, with computerized systems for irrigation, fertilizer
and pesticide application. The most common type of investment is 2 ha, expanding to 4 ha after
six years to gain economies of scale. There is an intensive technical service included in the
investment cost, which enables investors to maintain the high standards of growing and
packaging required by the market. The quality of Zambia cut flowers is at par with established
cut flower exporters from Zimbabwe and South Africa.
18.   Production begins within about seven months of start-up. Output is geared towards the
European market from September to May, during which time the average production is estimated
at 1.1 million stems per hectare. Investment in the past three years has favoured capital intensive
enterprises using the latest technology - steel structures, automated irrigating and fertilizing



-37-
systems - which costs about US$ 405,000 per hectare brought into production. Re-investment,
together with expansion during year 3 and year 6 of operations, at a cost of US$ 126,000 per
hectare, has been found necessary to optimize the investment, bringing the standard enterprise to
4 ha. Operating costs at this level are about US$ 0.22 per stem. The average selling price in
Europe throughout the nine-month marketing season is estimated at US$ 0.42 per stem.
Handling and marketing costs are about US$ 0.08, and the farmgate price for the producer is
estimated at US$ 0.34 per stem. The financial rate of return for a 2 ha farm, such as the one
established by the project, is estimated at 43% (Table 3).
Marketing
19.   Producers are linked closely to the major European flower markets and plan their
production schedules according to the dictates of these markets. The Zambia Export Crop
Growers Association, to which all flower growers belong, coordinates air-freighting and
negotiates competitive rates. A current constraint is that there are only three cargo flights per
week from Lusaka, which means that some consignments have to be cool-stored for up to two
days. This shortens the shelf life of the blooms, causing a price discount of about 15%. This
constraint is expected to decrease as production increases and other cargo carriers make
scheduled stops at Lusaka. In this event there would be about six flights per week, which would
improve the end quality and price of Zambia cut flowers.
Project Impact and Outlook
20.    Some 10 cut flower growers have established 20 ha of roses under the project. These
generate export earnings of about US$ 7.5 million annually, and provide about 600 full-time jobs
(30 new full-time jobs per hectare).
21.   Outlook is favourable for the immediate future. Zambian producers have a reputation
for quality, which is important for retaining their foothold in the market. Cut flower producers
run the risk of a general decline in prices, as a result of increased supply from other exporters
such as Zimbabwe, South Africa and Kenya. However Zambian production costs are low, and
hence these growers are in a position to absorb price falls. As production increases, there should
be additional freight space which will reduce current losses through temporary storage. These
factors are all in favour of cut flower production remaining a sustainable business.
C. ECONOMIC IMPACT
General
22.   The project has attained its objectives in broadening the country's agricultural base, and
improving its foreign exchange earning capacity. Instead of producing only one export crop, as
envisaged at appraisal, it assisted growers to produce two crops - coffee and cut flowers - thereby
enhancing the diversification of Zambia's export commodities. The project output (para. 23) will
enable the country to earn foreign exchange of about US$ 19 million annually at full
development.
Production and Prices
23.   Coffee and cut flower production are estimated as follows:



-38-
Yield and Production of Coffee and Cut Flower
At Full Development
Area        Yield              Production
(ha)        (kg/ha, stem/ha)   (tons/stems)
Smallholder Coffee          320          800               256
Commercial Coffee Farmers   1,550        2,500             3,875
Cut Flower                  20           1,1 million       22 million
24.   Yield estimates are based on what is being achieved now by growers. Smallholders
achieve yields of over I ton per hectare if they apply sufficient inputs, but they are guarantied at
least 0.8 ton per hectare with low input use but with adequate farm tending. Yields of
commercial farmers are impressive, and they reach up to 4 tons per hectare during the peak
years. However, as one sixth of the commercial farmer's coffee area is out of production at any
given time during ratooning, and given the low yields the two years after ratooning, average
yields are about 2.5 tons per hectare. The yields of cut flowers are 110 stems (roses) per m . In
the case of coffee, which is irrigated, full development is achieved during the 5ih year after
planting. About 10% and 50% of the full development yields are also achieved during the third
and fourth year of the project, respectively. The full development yields of cut flowers are
achieved in the second year.
25.   The project's coffee production is mild arabica, which commands high prices
internationally. If care is taken in the wet processing and successive fermenting and drying, it
can fetch premium prices, now that marketing of coffee has been improved under the project. At
completion, some farmers were receiving prices well over US$ 3,000 per ton, benefitting from
the current favourable international prices. The average FOB price of coffee for the period 1994-
95 to 1996-97 was slightly under US$ 3,000 per ton. According to ZCGA, an average FOB price
of US$ 2,800 per ton can be realistically expected for the next several years. This price was,
therefore, used to calculate farmgate prices for economic analysis as follow:
Economic Price of Coffee
Item                                         US$/ton
FOB Price Durban/Dar as Salaam               2,800
Port charges                                 30
Railage & insurance                          190
Transport to railhead                        30
Sub-total charges                           250
Farm gate price                             2,550
aThere are no duties on the export of agricultural commodities.
26.   During the past two years, the international prices of Zambian roses in Europe averaged
at US$ 0.42 per stem, and the total handling, transporting and marketing costs after the farmgate



-39-
amounted to US$ 0.08 per stem. This gives a farmgate price of US$ 0.34 per stem, and has been
adopted as the economic price for the analysis.
Project Costs
27.   The financial farm budgets (Tables I to 3) have been used as the basis for the economic
analysis, and were adjusted to derive economic costs. Major adjustements consisted of
conversing local costs to border prices using a factor of 0.8; costing of labour 50% of its
financial rate, to reflect its opportunity cost; and exclusion of duties and taxes. Normally an
import levy of 5%; import duty of 25% and a VAT tax of 20%, are imposed on imported
machinery and material, including planting material. On average, costs have been adjusted by
10%, 20% and 30% for smallholder coffee producers, for commercial coffee farmers, and for cut
flower producers, respectively. The latter have higher taxes as they have to import planting
material. All costs have been re-instated to January 1997 prices using consumer price index for
the local costs (63% of total costs) and manufacturing unit value for the foreign exchange
component. Since commercial coffee farmers and cut flower producers are paying for the
importation of production technology and technical advice, project extension and research costs
have been excluded from the computation of the economic analysis.
Economic Rate of Return
28.   An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has been computed for the project over 20 years.
The phasing of benefits and assumptions on the derivation of economic values are shown in
Table 4. Based on these, an ERR of 44% has been calculated for the project. The ERR is about
double the rate estimated at appraisal, because firstly the yields of commercial coffee farmers
were underestimated at appraisal, and secondly, there were no provisions for cut flower
production.
Sensitivity Analysis
29.   The project is not sensitive to a reasonable increase in costs and a decrease in benefits. A
30% decrease in benefits or increase in costs would reduce the ERRs to 29% and 32%,
respectively.



-40-
Table 1. a 60 ha, Commercial Coffee De' elopment Budget - Input Requirements
(Page I)
A EA                                               50 HA
YIELO                                            2,500 KGVA
ANNUAL PROOUC.;OhN                                I50 TONS
ESTABLSHMENT
00 GENERAL CHARGES                              UNIT   OUANTrT  LABOUR  tOTAL COST               COST
COST      UNITS    DAYS          US S            YEAR 2   YEAR 3
101 MANAGER - SALARY (12 UTHS)                    5S0        12               S.720
LEAVE I MONTHS                               580          1                550
PENSION CONTRIBUTION                         56O                           33
SUB-TOTAL                                                                   7,516               7816
102 ASST MANAGER - SALARY(USS.WTH)                2t0        12               3.30
LEAVE I MONTH                           280          1                2S0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                   1.i40               3540
103 F;El  SUPERVtSOR (1)                           30        12                 380                280
104 SOCIAL SECURITY (LABOUR) a 5%                  1 0             30.000     1.500               t500
t15 TRAVELLING a TRANSPORT
PtCK-UP 20.000 KM                                0 2    20.000              4 000
ESTATE CAR 20.000 KM.                            0 2    20a000              4.000
SUB-TOTAL                                                                   80.000               00
I50 INSURANCES & UCENCES                           20        S0               1.200               1200
107 RENT                                            a         0                   0
108 OFFICE & ADMINISTRATION
CLERKS (USVtMONTH)                               30        24                 720
TELEPHONE (USVYEAR)                             192         t                 192
POSTAGE & STATIONARY                             9f         1                  96
SUB-TOTAL                                                                   1.008               1008
109 aANK CHARGES                                  2.0        60                 120               120
110 HCUDAYS (10 DOAYS)                             1.0       10       800       500
LU AVE PAY (21 DAYS)                             I a       21      12a0     1.250
SUB-TOTAL                                                                   1.S60               tw50
1 1 MEDICAL (US S/A)                              5.0       60                 300
SICK DAYS (10W PERMANENT)                        1.0                  00       00
SUB-TOTAL                                                                     900                900
112 UPKEEP FACTORY BUILDINGS (US51NA)             40 0       80               2.400               2400
113 UPKEEP ROADS (USS/HA)                        20 0        60               1200                1200
t14UPKEEPWATERSUPPLY(USSIHA)                      100        80                 SW0               M00
115 LGHTING POWER (USS.tAj)                       8.7        i0                 403              40S2
116 SECJRITY LAsOUR (5)                            I c        5      .800    1.300               600
11t7 YCRKSMOP TOOLS (USSMA)                        I 9        o0                t15              115 2
I11AC_3UNTS&AUDIT(USSAA)                         24C         12                 28M                28!
119MANAGEMENTFEE(USSdNA)                          0.0        60                   0                  a
120 AGENCY FEE Z 2%                               0.0       150                   0                  0
TOTAL GENERAL CHARGES                                               *.260   13030               23.030        0



-41-
Table 1. a 60 ha, Commercial Coffee Development Budget - Input Requirements
(Page 2)
UNIT   QUANTrT  LABOUR  TOTAL COST
2C0 UPKEEP & CULLT.VAT;ON                      COST       UNiTS    OAYS
ZOI WEEDING (MANUAL & HERBICIDE)                 (US S                          us s
HAND-WEEDING C 15 MO/AH(HA.)                     1.0        60       900       900
PARAQUAT 3 APPL X I ULTrHAI(LM                   7.0       160               1.2s0
GLYPHOSATE 0.5 APPL Z I UT (LTM                  9.0        30                 270
LABOUR 3 2.5 MIAROUND (HA.)                      1.0       210       525      525
TRACTORMIATER BoWSER (HOURS)                     2.4        TO                 1U
HEADMAN (MAN OAYS)                               1.3                  i9       1tl
uS-TOTAL                                                           1,514     3.234               1.517    1.617
202 PEST & OISEASE CONTROL
DISYSTON @20 GRAMS/ALTERNATE TREES               4 0      1200               4,500
DIPTEREX ONE APPL . 2KG / HA                     2.5       120                300 DISEASE
COPPER 4 APPL3 4KG,1NA(KG)                       5.0    1.200                6.000 CCNTROL
TRACTORISPRAYER iZ 1.5 HR/HIA(HRS)               3.0       396               1.188 COSTS
TIDRrVERS  5 s T/NRSWAN DAY                      1 3                  79        n      7356
LABOUR (SPRAY MIU0ER)                            1 a                  79        79
MEALYBUG.'SCALES PATROL Z 5 MCD`A                1.0                 300      300
DIELCRIN i 1 0 UTrHA (LTRES)                     9 0        60                540
SUB-TOTAL                                                           458    13.305               2.661     4.435
203 PRUNING
I X MAiN a 50 TREES57`O iWDAYS)                  1 0               2.400     2.400
2 X HANOUNG @ 90 TREES,74O(MiDAYS)                1.0              2.587     2.667
2 X OE-SUCKERING a 300(VMO (MWVAYS)              1.0                 800      lOO
HEADMAN (MAN OAYS)                               1.3                 196      244
SUB-TOTAL                                                          6.062     5.111                  0     1.523
204 MULCHING (50% OF BLOCKS)
TRACTOR MOWING 100 HA GRASS (HRS)                2.4       120                288
TRACTOR RAKJNG 100 HA. GRASS (HRS)               2.4        g0                216
TRACTOR TRANSPORTING GRASS (HRS)                 2.4       90                 216
ORrVERS MOWINGIRAKJNTRANSP (MO)                  1.3                 50        75
LABOUR MOWINGRAKJNGCTRANSP (MO)                  1.0                240       240
LABOUR SPREADING @ 40/MO (MWOAYS)                1.0              1E013      1.013
HEACMAN (MAN DAYS)                               1 3                 29        36
SUB-TOTAL                                                          1.341     2,084              2.084     2.0C4
205 FERTILUDNG
20:10:10 a 300 KGMHA (TONS)                      300        24               7.200
CAN. 26% @ 300 KGrHA (TONS)                      300       1i                5.400
15:1t:15 Z 100 KG4A (TONS)                       300       12                3.506
D.S P (46%) @ 100 KG,HA (TONS)                   300        9                2.700
MAGMAX (16%) @7 300 KG/HA (TONS)                  60       21                1.2eo
LABOUR 7 APPLO 2 MD/HA (IVDAYS)                  1.0                 4        840
(ALT TRACT`SPREADER     1 5 MRS/HAI
TRACT TRANSP. 0 IHRrHA (T/HOURS)                 2.4      420                1.008
DNC SULPHATE A BORAX a sKGrHA EACH               0 8       120                 72
HEADMAN (MAN DAYS)                               1.3                 24        30
SUB-TOTAL                                                           864    22.110               5.528    7.370
206 IRRIGATION
9 ROUNOS @ 20 MAYS PER RCUND
160 DAYtX ls!RS X 60KW(KWHy-                    s.03   324,ooo              10.368
UPKEEP EQUIP 0 US 320 JHA                         20       60                1 200
LAcOUR (a 2 MUOhLROUNO (MiAYS)                   10                1.200     1.200
HEACMAN (MAN DAYS)                               1.3                 So       1oo
SUB-TOTAL                                                          1.280    12.68              68.434    5434
207 INFILUNG 5% ANNUALLY                           0 1     4 050                405
LAWOUR HOUNGIPLAwING/MANURiNG                    I a                 81        81
SUB-TOTAL                                                            81       46e                  0       486
TOTAL UPKEEP & CULTrVATION                                        11.601    60.199             18.323    23.954



-42-
Table 1. a 60 ha. Commercial Coffee Development Budget - Input Requirements
(Page 3)
UNrT   OUANTrr  LABOUR  TOTAL COST
300 C_UItCTION & MANUFACTURE                   CCST      UNhTS    DAYS         uS S
301 PICKING                                      (US S)
LABOURPICKIJNG 20% oF CRCP (OSEEES)              1.0   15.000     6.000 o    .000
CONTRACT PICI0NG 80% CROP (DEBES)                0.3   60.000               15.000
SUB-TOtAL                                                          s.000    21t000                 0     0.0000
302 PICKING ECUIPUAENT (SUMA)                                                   250                  0       125
303 TRANSPORT CHERRY
TRACTORMtRAJLER 130 DAYS (TIIOURS)              z24       225                 540
ORrVER @ 9T/MO X SHS 50/. (MOAYS)                t                  113       141
SUB-TOTAL                                                           113       681                  0       340
305 FACTORY LABOUR
PROCESSING @9 15 MDITON (M/DAYS)                 1.0              2.250     2.250
MECHANIC(MAN OAYS)                               1.3                312       390
HEAoMAN (MAN DAYS)                               1.3                312       390
SUB-TOTAL                                                         2.174     3.030                  0      1.5t5
30l FUEL & UTENSILS
aRUSHES.PADOLES ETC. (SUM)                                                  1.000                  0       500
307 UPKlEEP MACHINERY
@M US S10 PER TON PROCESSED                        10       t50               1.500                  0       750
308 POWER S WATER SUPPLY (KWH)
WATER @ 20 KW1TrON CLEAN COFFEE  MKWH)           0.0    3.000                  96
FACTORY POWER C 3S KVA.vTONNE (KWH)              0.0    5.400                 173
SUB-TOTAL                                                                     269                  0       134
309 PACKING MATERiALS (SISAL BAGS)
REPLACE25S%0F3.000ANNUALLY                       068      450                 350                  0       180
310 ORYING TABLE MATERIALS
33% OF 2.400 M SISALCLOTH (METRES)               1' 46     0                 74o
25% Of 2.400M tUNYLfEX (METRES)                  04       380                 '44
SUB-TOTAL                                                                     912
311 TRANSPORT PARCHMENT COFFEE (BAGS)              0.4    3.750               1.500                  0       750
312 MILLJNG; GRAOING: BAGGING -                     92      150              13.500                        5.900
313 FACTORY MANAGER'S BONUS                        3.2      ISO                 4.6                  0       240
TOTAL COLLECTION & MANUFACTURE                                     6.987    44.781                 a    21.935
TOTAL GENERAL CHARGES                                             4.280    33.030       24%    33.030        0
TOTAL UPKEEP&CULTIVATION                                         1101 8o0.199          44%    16.323    23.954
TOTAL COLLECTION s MANUFAC-URE                                    8.987   "47a1        32%         0    21.935
TOTAL LABOUR DAYS ANO COSTS                                      24 647   138t.010    10o0%    51.354    45.86a
COST (US S PER HECTARE)                                                     2.300                a5m       755
COST IUS S PER TON)                                                           920                342       306
NET REVENUE (US SITON)                                                      2.550                  0         0
OPERATING SURPLUS (US 1/TON)                                                1.6t0               (342)    (306)
_ ~~~~~. _............. -.-..........   



-43-
Table 1. b  Summarx  of Costs
YIELD LEVEL                  2500  KG CLEAN COFFEE/HA
AREA I PRODUCTION               60 HA                 150 TONS
US S               USS / HA              USS / TON
DIRECT COSTS (UPKEEP & PROCESSING)                                     104 980                   1.750                     700
INDIRECT COSTS                                                          33.030                     551                    220
TOTAL COSTS                                                            138,010                   2.300                     920
CROP FINANC:NG AT 10% INTEREST                                          10,351                     173                      69
ANNUALIZATION OF CAPITAL COSTS                                          24,275                     405                     162
TOTAL COSTS -ALL CHARGES                                               172,636                   2.877                   1.151
DISEASE CONTROL - COSTS (SHSITON)                                        7.366                     123
DISEASE CONTROL - % OF DIRECT COSTS                                                                18'S
DISEASE CCNTROL -  C OF TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS                                                     13%
Table 1. c  Fertilizer Application Rates (MNature Coffee)
YIELO  2.500 KGC,`A                                                         KG NUTRIENT,7A
KQ(-  !WTRES          N        P        K   s        Ca      Ug
20-013                                        40                 0o      40      *0        S       2        0
CAN  2%2300                                                    78        0        0               00 60
is 05 1S                                                        20       30      Is        2       a        8
0 S P 48%I                                    ISO                0       so       0 g              0        0
UAGMAXA '116  CR SUPERt.AG (52%)              350                0        0       0        0      8         G 56
OTAL APPUrCATION                             400 1*                     139     ss       20      III      70
YIELZ  2.0C KCHA                           KG.IA  GWrREE         N        P        K   S        C.      Mg
10 10)0                                      2X                         30       a0        6       0        0
CAN 26%                                       030               78        0       0        0       00       61
15 15I5                                        0                I 5      o        5       a        0        o
o3s P t4I                                     50                 0 o     S        0        0       0        0
UAGMAX AI5%CR SUPERMAGO(52%                   300                0 o              0        0      e9       46
TOTAI.APPUCATION                            I 150              100      114       5       '0      SS       56
YTELO - IXXO KCjIA                         KGIiIA  GYMTREE       N       P        K   S        Ca       Mg
21010                                        2 3                40      20       I0                0 0      0
-.A NI 2%                                     250               e5        0       0        o      25
5s s is                                       so                     2           .s       s        0 
OSP '46%I                                     '3                 0       e8       0       0        0        3
UAGIAA  15%) OR SUPERMAG (52-%               240                 3                0        2      15       38
OTAL APPUCATION                             870               117       8       O5        9      so       47
Y'IEL  - 120 KGHA                         KaHA  GM/TREE   -4           P      K        S       C0       Mg
20 l010                                      200                40      20       20       *        0        0
C.AN (0a%i                                   :X                 52       0 0               0      20        4
15i 15 i05                                                       0       0                4        a        3
OsP4 .a")                                     50                 0       37       0        0       0        0
MAGMAXI164% OR SUPERUAG  z%)                 2o                      0            0       0o 4o            02
TOTALAPPUCATION                              745               102      07       05       a       G6       39
SALARIES hWAGES ANPUT COSTS I PRICES         us sU5 S
MANAGER (ALLCCATION TO COFFEEIUSWS           560          20 10 10 US s 0TON)                             300
ASST MANAGER               _                 250          CA N 26% (US I I TONI                           300
FSELO SUPERV1SOR (US  IMONTH)                 30          is 15 s I(US SU JTONI                          X00
CLERKS (US SI MONTHS                          00          o.S P 14% (US S I TONI                          300
ORrVERSrMECMANICS (US 0) MAAN GAY)            1 3         MAGMAX (16% MG) (US S1 TONS                      S
TRACTOR OR1VERS (US S/ MAN OAYr                 3         ZINC SULPHATE & EORAX RUS s I KG)               086
FIEL::/fACTORY HEAOMEN (US S I MAN DAY)       1 3         3 PHASE ELECTRIC POWER (US S  KSSIHo 050
tASIC LASOUR COST (KWACHAI MAN DAY)         1250          FACTORY POWER  20 KAWHTON                        06
IAS C LA6OUR (US I UMAN OAY)                  to          PARCHMENT SAGS (US S EACNI                      0o
COFFEE SEEDUNGS (EACH. US o                   0 1         SISAL CLOTH (SJSALTEXII (US * / METRES            6
TRANSPORT PICKERS (US S / PICKER)             00          MIoLUNG. GRADING. BAGGING . US SITON             S2
TRANSPORT PARCHMENT (US S I BAG)              04 A         YLEX PVC -1 METRE WVOE (US I/ IMETRE)          0 4
CONTRACT PICKING (US S I OEtSE)               0           TRACTOR TRAILER (US s I HOURI                   24
PARAOUAT (US    .LITREl                        7          TRACTORJSPRAYER (US I IHOUR)                    s0
GLYPHOSATE IUSSILITRES                         9          TMACTOR1C1WER(USI/IHOUR1                        2.4
COPPER OXYCHLORPOE (US s I KG)                 s          MANAGER'S PROOUCTION SONIS (US 1) TON'l         02
OELAIO CACONIL IUS5/KG)                       15          PROCUCERPRICENETOFMARRKEfNGCMARGES            2.550
OIELDRIN t C (US s I UTRE)                     2          MANAGEMENT FEE (US  I HA)                       2.4
DlSYSTONI FIURAGAN (US S/KG)                   4          AGENCY FEE @ I 5% JUS S I TONI                 06 0
OIPTEREX INSECTICMOE IUS 10 KG)               25          PCX-UP RUNNING COSTS (US s/ I.41                02
ExCHANGE RATE 1ZK_   USS  001               12!0          ESTATE CAR RUNNING COSTS (US SI  KMS            02
U LLAR FINANCING INTEREST RATE                 0%         REAL RATE OF INTEREST                            2%



TlableD 1. it CapIlilal C osts - Fjieldl EqulTipmllfcl
UNITS    PRICE OST(US s)             OTIIER EOlJIPMENT               CAPITAL DEPRECIATION
VINEYARD TRACTOR                                       2    12,500    25.000             DEPRECIATION 1o YRS              COST      COSr
]RAILER                                                 1     5o000     5.000                                    -------- ---------------
WATER BOWSER                                            1     2,500      2,500
lRACTOR DRAWN SPRAYER                                   1     4,000     4,000
fERTILIZER SPREADER                                     I     2 000     2o000
IIARROW                                                 1     4o000     4,000
SUB SOILER                                              1     1.500      1.500
KNAPSACK SPRAYER                                       10        20       200
NOTARY GRASS CUIIER                                     1     2o000     2.000
SAWS. SECATEURS. JEMBES ETC (SUM)                    SUM                 1.500
TOTAL VALUE                                                            47.700
ANNUAL DEPRECtATION OVER 1O YEARS                                       7.763
DEPRECIATION
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT (DRIP SYSTEM)                                                 COST
@US .2,500 / .IA                                                       150.000    11.674 (Is YEARS)
COFFEE FACTORY BUILDINGS & CIVIL WQRKS                                  25.000     1.116 (30 YEARS)
COFF-EE FACTORY MACIiINERY a EQUIPMET                                   25.000     1.529 120 YEARS)
COFFEE ESTABLISIIMENT                                                   60.000     2.193 (40 YEARS)
IOTAL DEPRECIATION
COST US S)                                                                        24.275
Mectlanical fqu p4fenI          US $           US S
Vehcle - Pickup               12.000    I    12.000                                                              12,000
5Ohp kctcIw                   15,000    2    30.000                                                                                  30.000
Coae. spa,e Ivecal boom)      71.000    1                         7.0      7.000                                                      7.000
Disc hafow                     6.000    I    6.000
l1a.e 1inm purpose)            7.000    I               7.000              7.000                                                               7V000
Bush hog gymonower             2.000    1               2.000                                                                                  2.000
WInb,ower                      3.000    1               3.000                                                                                  3.000
Sub kloal mchanica equIpnmnt                 46,000    12.000    7,000    14,000        0         0         0    12.000        0    37.000    12.000    46.000    12.000    7.000    14,000



Ta ble I .C. 61) IiI, (:1llillet-1 rd     ('eOffce DeveloPlic"alI lli lgl - ( ashi Flow
U,4 u co           V YR I     T *2       yH* a     Y4        YNa *       H a *           7   Vt a      Vt *        IC la v1  11      Yt 12      WIt s     VP4       V H1F
I.,.ld.le-,,nIc C..~U.S   Ou.                                         C..       Cot        Ct..      Coet       Ceet      Co.'       Cal       Cel        Co."      Coot      Co-        C-o       Coa        ca.'      Co-
I.-A P..Pm.l.iof                                      44    60    2.640
6.--.oy .4-1-                                      2.746      3     2.741
M64.4n p-.... * l                                  12.000     1    12.000
I..I.4a,onqi.tl                                     2.600   60   71.000    76,000
P.d                                               40.000                                10.000    *0.000
D0. ...                                           60.000                                12.600    317.600
M-1l.eMcd SAIqinA-tl                                               49.000    12.000      7.000    14.000              0               0    12.000          0    37.000    12,000    49.000    12.000       7.000    14.000
PdtA-  p:,                                                          :-"' I  0 07  0  *.400
6zZnAA,,epl.ia. y.. I                               40.0    60      2.400
Ral1d ...  Ve. 2                                     610    60               20.600
F eld o. Va. t*                                     1.041    g0                         62.460
1.5.1 c.u,Is.p                                                    102.166   117.600    91.660    01,000          0          0         0    12,000          0    *7000      12.00      *0.000    12.000      7.000    14.000 
Ul.kep 6t.o,dodie bhooa 1- 4                        2.732    60              61.263    46.66    1*6010   12.010   126.010   11.010   1*6.010   136.010   18.010   1 23.              16.010   11.010   12.1        .0 10
1..s.1 ...U                                                       162.016   166.663   127.646   216.650   136.010   126.010   1*2.010   160.010   1*1.010   176.010   160.010   107.010   160.010   146.010   12.010
71.44 * P.od -c:4o                                   26    60                     0         16        76       160        160       160        160       160        160       160        160       160       160        060
t,s V.t .l P,ed.O,                                 2.660    60                    0    47. 112  161,270   282.600  3I2.600   lOl.t00   32.600   262.-00 2I2.600   *61.600   *O2.600   161.600   *62.600   362.600
N.11,,. l,.. t.-                                                 1162.1051  (1611.9621  10.0J71  170.2U01  244.400   244.400   244.400   222.400   244.400   207.400   232.460   166.460   232.460   237.40   230.460
1 17% .--  ..OA   A-.el                                                                                     41.663    41.663    41.603   31.625    41.S63    36.2713    30,623         3.222   32.623    40,173   32.153
Nat IKl- It..0-6 1161.1691  4116.0931  410.0271   132.2601  202,.27   202.627   202.627   1622.67   202.027   172.217   162.667   162,261   192.667   187,117   161.307
16TAUS WENT1 COSIB 160 "A I                                       443.246
ES IABUSImIENI CO IS 4UStiAl                                        I.327
TAL VALUIE OF P*ODOUCI1OII US3IHA                                   6.372
N11 INCOME UFOll tAX AT FUtt DIV. lUtt $I                            a.642
NET INCOME Al FUt DIV. 1W $W)                                      2.163
IIOOOUCIIOk COSI NH lOw                                               620
YHDOUCUI MCK P"a TO"                                                2.660
PINANIAL It                     26 6%



-46-
Table 2. a I ha. Smallholder Coffee Budget
Input Rates for Labour, Fertilizers and Farms Chemicals, Tools and Equipment
F.O.8. WSAKA PRICE 1996                      2.8 USS/KG
ESTIMATED SMALLHOLDER PRODUCER PRIC          2.6 USS/KG
PLANTING DENSITY (TREES PER HECTARE)    2.000      2.000    2.000    2.000
VERY LOW      LOW   MEDIUM       HIGH
YIELD LEVEL - KG/CLEAN COFFEE'HA             180      360      600       800
LABOUR INPUTS                           AN DAYS AN DAYS AN DAYS AN DAYS
PRUNINGiHANDLING/DESUCKERINGiCONVER          47        93       93       93
FUNGICIDE / PESTICIDE APPLICATION             16       24       40       40
FERTILIZER APPLICATION                         1        4        6        8
HAND-WEEDING                                 27        40       53       67
NURSERY & ANNUAL INFILLING                    5         5        5        5
MULCHING                                      4         4        8        12
PICKING                                      26        51       86       114
PULPING CHERRY                                7        14       24       32
DRYING PARCHMENT                              5         9       15       20
TOTAL MAN DAYS                               137      245      330      391
FERTILIZERS & CHEMICALS - APPLICATION RATES
C.A.N. FERTILIZER (KGIHA)                    25       100      150      200
20:10:10 FERTILIZER (KG/HA)                  25       100      150      200
COPPER (KG/HA)       (1)                     10        10       10       10
DELAN OR DACONIL (KG/HA) (2)                 0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
FENITROTHION (LITRESIHA) (3)                 1.0      1.0       2.0      2.0
(1) COPPER OXYCHLORIDE @0  \Kg/HAfROUND          (3) FENITROTHION ;@ 1 LITRE/HA/ROUND
(2) DELAN @ 0 KGiHA/ROUND
Tools and Equipment - Annual Costs (KSHSIHA)
YIELD LEVEL (KG/HA)
180       360       600        800
KNAPSACK SPRAYER (CP3 TYPE)                          9         9          9         9
SECATEUR (BLADE & ANVIL TYPE)                        1         1          1         1
PRUNING SAW                                          2         2          2         2
FORK JEMBE / SPADE JEMBE / PANGA                     3         3          3         3
PICKING BASKETS / BAGS                               2         2          2         2
SUB-TOTAL TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT                       16        16         16        16



-47-
Table 2. b I ha, Smaliholder Coffee Budget
(Page 1)
Returns and Operating Costs
800   Unit Cost    Cost
UsS      Uss
NO OF TREES PER HECTARE                                2.000
YIELD (KG/CLEAN COFFEEiHA)                              800
PRODUCER PRICE (USS/KGI)                                2.55
GROSS INCOME (USS/HA)                                  2.040
LABOUR
PRUNING/HANDLING/DESUCKERING;CONVERSION                  93         1       93
FUNGICIDE / PESTICIDE APPLICATION                        12         1        12
FERTILIZER APPLICATION                                    6         1        6
FERTILIZER APPLICATION                                    8         1        8
HAND-WEEDING                                             67         1       67
NURSERY & ANNUAL INFILLING                                5         1        5
MULCHING                                                 12         1        12
PICKING                                                 114         1      114
PULPING CHERRY                                          114         1      114
DRYING PARCHMENT                                         32         1       32
TRANSPORTING / MARKETING                                 32         1       32
SUB-TOTAL LABOUR DAYS                                   495                495
OTHER INPUTS
C.A.N. FERTILIZER (USS/HA)                              200       0.3       60
20:10:10 FERTILIZER (USS/HA)                            200       0.3       60
COPPER OXYCHLORIDE (USS/HA)                              10       5.0       50
FENITROTHION (USS/HA)                                     5       1.0    *   5
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT (USS/HA)                            SUM                  16
SUB-TOTAL OTHER INPUTS COSTS                                               191
TOTAL COSTS (USS/HA)                                                       686
GROSS INCOME (USS/HA)                                   800        3      2,040
GROSS MARGIN`(USSIHA)                                                     1,354
RETURNS LABOUR (USS/MAN DAY)                                                2.7
PRODUCTION COSTS (USS/KG OF CLEAN COFFEE)                                   0.9



-48-
Table 2. b I ha. Smallholder Coffee Budget
(Page 2)
Establishment Cost
M/D OR  Unit Cost    COST
QUANTITY       USS       USS
YEAR I
REPAIR OF IRRIGATION CANALS                     30       1.0       30
LAND PREPARATION                                70       1.0       70
MEASURING & STAKING                              5       1.0        5
DIGGING HOLES @ 80 PER MAN DAY                  25       1.0       25
PLANTING 2,000 SEEDLINGS 6100 PER MD            20       1.0       20
MULCHING SEEDLINGS ( 80 PER MAN DAY             25       1.0       25
SPRAYING PESTICIDES                              5       1.0        5
SUB-TOTAL MAN DAYS                             180                180
OTHER INPUTS
D.SP. @ 100 Grms PER PLANTING HOLE             0.3      2C0        60
COFFEE SEEDLINGS                              2000       0.1      200
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT                              8       1.0        8
SUB-TOTAL OTHER INPUTS                                            268
TOTAL COSTS YEAR 1                                                448
YEAR 2
MAINTENENCE OF IRRIGATION CANALS                30       1.0       30
HAND WEEDING                                    53       1.0       53
PRUNING                                        20        1.0       20
MULCHING                                        8        1.0        8
FERTILIZER APPLICATION                          6        1.0        6
FUNGICIDE APPLICATION                           16       1.0       16
SUB-TOTAL LABOUR 2                             103       1.0      133
OTHER INPUTS
C.A.N. FERTILIZER                              150       0.3       45
20:10:10 FERTILIZER                            150       0.3       45
COPPER (CERCOSPORA CONTROL)                     10       5.0       50
FENITROTHION INSEC7ICIDE                        3        1.0        3
SUB-TOTAL OTHER INPUTS                                            143
TOTAL COSTS YEAR 2                                                276
YEAR 3
MAINTENENCE OF IRRIGATION CANALS               30        1.0       30
HAND WEEDING                                   67        1.0       67
P5UN1NG                                        63        1.0       63
MULCHING                                       12        1.0       12
FERTILIZER APPLICATION                          8        1.0.       8
FUNGICIDE APPLICATION                          40        1.0       40
SUB-TOTAL LABOUR 3                            190                 190
OTHER INPUTS
C.A.N. FERTILIZER                              60        0.3       18
20:10:10 FERTILIZER                            60        0.3       18
COPPER OXYCHLORIDE                             10        5.0       50
FENITROTHION INSECTICIOE                        3        1.0        3
SUB-TOTAL OTHER INPUTS YEAR 3                                      89
TOTAL COSTS YEAR 3                                                279
ESTABLISHMENT COSTS - LABOUR                                      503
ESTABLISHMENT COSTS - OTHER INPUTS                                500
TOTAL ESTABLISHMENT COSTS                                       1,003
Smallholder milling charges                                       105
Smallholder storage & insurance                                   95
Smallholder bulking/recording                                      50
Smallhoder collection & transport                                 200
Subtotal smajlholder cntarges                                    450



Table 2. c  I ha, Smaliholder Coffee Btidget
Casbt Flow
Uat       Toa        VA 3       Toi4       T           o        V  I       TRII Ti Ni          v to10     Vat        vita       vati      it VO 1     aI
1Z.___ ._                        ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~U.,  0.,   C..       C_.        C_         c_         C-        C-I        C_         C    ~    C-         C-I        C..
f- 1  41
14             * --  T. *- U                445                   *4
U.N,.... b..& . 6  .- I..W T, 2              216          U                  270
A".M.--- t..&.d   ...A.. *3                 2 a11        U                             i
_t..d P.4.. 133% . .-_I                       60                                                    s o0
6...      -.  .-                                                 445        li7        275         6O
KI9-                         460                                        410        460        460       450        460        460        460       460        460 4o0               460       460        460
,Dk.. A V ,                                  "s                              242        "a        *i         "a         "6         o8n       "5          A         ass aI aIS                       m         ass "aa
f.- 1.64. 31
1..    .                                                          "4         its      tAIl       Ut.     t .3         t          tt3i  1.135  1.136    1.130     t .3i      t  t3                 .13       1.136     1t3U 4i
Ustim         go
U.4.v... .d...                                6       5000                              204      1,020     2.040      2.040      2.040      2.040      2.040     2.040      2.040      2.040      2.040     2.040      2.040
Mm ..  _6.                                                       34451 t      is     112t1l       fleet      004        *04        *04       604        504        604        904       904        504        604       504
It m ALIGHWIll COaTv  US (Al                          1.053
PRODUCTION COSTS UG $lMA                              U.1ti
IOtAL VAIUL Of PIODUCTIOM US 4AM                      2 040
Mfg tCOAI AT fUIt DIV. UW SA                           904
POODUCIK   CotIn us sd Uo                               45
lOODUCiS MCEI US 4MG                                   2 66
1`96APICIAL                 n 23 6%



-50-
0o U
*~~~~~~~~~~ (*nn^                                     D-nonD-n
*    -                                 D8   X 8 8    8 G   - -      n -041
-~ ~~~~~~~~~ _0                                     
-                                                       O-888                      D 6 0 .,
0-                                         C~~~~'Ct0(~sN   n 0  D  _  1 
-                                                    S    8o  88        
Co CN0(    COo   00     D'D' 
0   U                                                ,00 o       .CCN ,   OD .00GD    4nDc
o~~~~~~~~~~ C    n00                                        000_G  00n0D_
D -                                                  'U  G 8  *08 000D0000Q
e~~~~~~0 U
_          >   U                                                D So D O  t ~~5NC(D8 DD Dt.   Or, 
-3      _                                                                                                                                    0. 8Do  DG  88ttR3__o
, z ,> 2 su D-   U                                                                                                                  0  , iO
0                          0)   0)                                                   0 ge= 338 o G o   5D5 00 0 8  8,,8D    Cn  
4 ~ ~     ~    ~    0   >-   U                                                 0- C 0 0-O O 8                  0   88w9=<2'  
C,~~~~~~~~~                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~ -t"  u    - 
C~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                           S          
N                              8 a    82 0C    c        00 0 58R      888n55n800D05  D_ O vN 
Cl~~~~                                                                                ~~ NN~     4100NN                        34__
n  3DRD  N                                         S8a R5  000 0G.GO w
0 ~~~~~~~~                (N       CC~~~~~~~~~~~~
a U                                                   (NNC i    9flOOOn(32   .N9a    0S41



Tablcl 4. Economnic Anialysis
(Page I)
1994   -1995          19W8O      1997        1998     1999     200;0    2001      2002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007     2008      2009     2010     2011     2012
Cornmercaal Farmewig
Ilolal Value o1 Produiction (000 US$S)  0 00    0 00      4 4780  -191 30       382 50   382 50   392 50   38250O   382 50   382 50   382 50   392 50   382 50   382 50   382 50   382 50   382 50   382 50   38250U
lolal Cosi                        152 20      168 90     1378 -O 219 50         13800O   138 00   13800o   150 00   138 00   17500U   150 00    187 00    150 00    146 00    15200O   152 00 -152 00   152 00   152 00
-Adjustedfor Labour (50%)       149 30      162 80 --133 20 --214 90          133 40   133 40   133 40    145 40    133 40   1 70 40   145 40   182 40   145 40    141 40   147 40   14 740   147 40   14 740   147 40
-Adjusted tol97ncs/             374 74     218          502       214 90      133 40   133 40    133 40    14 540    133 40   170 40   145 40   182 40    145 40    14 140   14 740    14 740   147 40   147 40   147140
*Adtusleed ftoDut.es[Taxes(-20%)    299 79  217 50     120 41     171 92      106 72   106 72   106 72    116 32   106 72   136 32   116 32   145 92   116 32   11312    117 92    117 92   117 92   117 92   117 92
Adjust ed by sct(O )             3D9 84    174 00      9633      1'37 54      85 38    85 38    853:8    93 06    85 38   109 06    93 06    116 74    93 06    90 50    94 34    94 34    94 34    94 34    94 34
Nei lncomre 66Oha                 -23984     .174 00     -48 5b      53176      297 12   29712   297 12   289 44   297 12   273 44   289 44   265 76   289 44   292 00   288 16   208816   288 16   286816   288 16
Net lncoine Iha                     -4 00      -2 90      -081        00 go       4 95     4 95     4695      4982     4 95      4 56     4 82     4 43      4 82     4 87      480      480      4 80     4 80      4 80
Phasing ha                        302 00  --302 00       302 00 -302 00         302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   302 00   30200O
--      838 00      83800O     838 00    _838 00   838 00  838 00  _838 00   838 00   83800O   838 00   838 00   838 00   838 00   838 00   038 00   838 00   838 00   838 00  l-
-   ______   - ~~~~~~oo32  -0  320 0    - 320 00   320 00   320 00320 00   320 00   320 00   320 00   320 00   320 00  -320 00   320 00   32000   32 000   320 00   32000o
9000o      90 00    90 00    9000O    90 00    90 00    9000O    90 00    90 00    90 00    90 00    9000O    90 00    90 00    90 00    9000r
Phased Income                    -1207 17    -875 80    -244 27     270 61    1495 52  1495 52  1495 52  1456 81  1495 52  1376 33  1456 87  1337 68  1456 87  1469 75  1450 43  1450 43  1450O43  1450 43  1450 43
-3349 70   -24 30 21    -677 81-75090 6  4149 83  4149 83  4149 83  4042 57  4149 83  3819 10  4042 57  3711 84  4042 57  4078 32  4024 69 -4024 69  4024 69  4024 69
-1279 12    -928 00    -258 83~ 286 74  1584 66  1511466   1 584 66  1543 70 -15860l6   1458 37  154370   1417 41  1543 70  1557 35  1536 87  1536 87  153687/
I                                            1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-359 75    -261 00   -72 80    80 65   446 69   445 69   445 69   434 17   445 69   410 17   434 17   398 65   434 17   438 01   432 25   432 25
Itotal Nt4eI ncome Commiercial Farmving    1207 17   -4225 51   -3953 60   -1694 95    1726 60  585930  73106 6  7637 05  7568 44  75155i5  7294 80  7284 30  7122 57  7363 90  7471 10  7466 64  7450 00  744424  7414424
Smaltholder Farmfng
ToalatValue of Poduclioti (000US )  000a        0 00       0 00       0 20   --162         2 04     2 204     2 04     2 04      2 204    2  204   2 04      2 04     2 04      2 04     2 04     2 204  -2 04      2 04
Total Costs                         0 00        0 45       0 62       1 42        119      11V4     1 14      1 14     1 14      1 14     1 14     1 14      1 14     1 14     -114      1 14     1 14     1 14      1 14
-Adjusted for abouw(-50%) -       0900       0O36        0 55       1 32        109      1 04-1 04          1 04     1 04      1 04     -104     1 04      1 04     1 04      1 04     10-4     1 04     1 04     1 04
*AtSell9pics400                         -         02          i2          0        14       14       14        10404    4         I10-0      4      104       1 04     1 04     1 04     I104      1064     1 04
Adjusled for ulesfraxes( 10%)    0 00        0 54       0 56       118e       0 98      0 93     0 93      0 93     0 93     0 93      0 93     0 93     0 93      0 93     0 93      0 93     0 93     0913     0 93
-Adjusted byscld(08)              0 00       0 43  _     0 45       0 95       0 78      075      0 75      075      0 75     0 75      0 75     0 75     0 75      0 75     0 75      0 75     0 75     0 75     0 75
Necli Icornelha                     0 00       -043       -0 45      -0 74        0 24     1 29      1 29     1 29     1279      1 29   - 129      I 29      1 29     1 29      1 29     1 29     1 29     1 29      1 29
Phrasing ha                            -       45 00  - 45 00        45 00       45 00    45 00    4500O    45 00    45 00    45 00    45 00    45 00    45 00    45 00    45 00    45900    450          45 00    45 00
75 00      75 00    -75 00    75 00    75 00    75 00    75 00    75 00    75 00    75 00    7500O    75 00    75 00    75 00    75 00~  7500 -75 00
20000      200.00   200 00   20 000   20 000   200 00 -20000O   200 00   2000DO   200 00   200 00   200 00   20 000200 00 _200060   200 00
Phased Income                                   0 00    -I -1i 37   -20 10      -33 43    107T1   .5823    583    58 23  -58 23    58 23    5823    58 23    58 23    58 23    58 23    58 23  -58 23    58 23
000     -32 28     -33 56   -5571-7 86         916        9706    97 06    97 06    97 06    97 06    97 06    97 06    97 06    90            76      90
-  - -        --   ~~~~~~~ ~~-- --              0600--860 -i 89 33  --148 56    47 62   282- 2588  282    2   258258                 5882     58822 258         288 82        2       8-25882
Total Net incomfe Smiaiholdr Fa   v0 00                     -19 37  --52 38     -153 02 - -34 33  - 72 47   202 91   414 11   414 I1   414 11  -4141I1   414 11   41411I   414 11   414 It   414 11 - 4141           4141I1



Table 4. Ecoiioitmic Anialysis
(I'age 2)
1994       1995        19S6        1997        1998     199t      2000      2001     2002      2003      2004      2005     20061    2007       2008      2009     2010O    2011       201?
o.t Flowet Developrnenl
Tolal Value ul ProductoE (000 US1     000       378 50     681 30      757 00     1135 50  1135 50   1135 50   1514 00  1S14 00   1514 00  1514 00   1514 00  1514 00  1514 00  1514 00   1514 00   1514 0O  1514 00  1514 00
lolal Cost                            0 00    1165 50      399 90      444 40      832 50   68010   680 10    06d 30   1I5 90       I I90    628 20   82U 20   828 2t    828 20   828 20    828 i0    828 20    828 20   828 20
*AdjuMIedu lt Iabout 1 50%)         0 00    1149130      381 OI0     423 40      801 00   648060   648 6(1   930i 41)   084 01)   1,84 (((   (10 :10  08 116 8    11 l76   80   1 (680U 11   080     (180    717680    11680     7  0 77ig
Adjusled to 1997 puces It          0 00    1918 33      430 53      423 40      801 00   648 60   648 60   93(G 40   684 00   GB4 00   /96 30    7/6 80   11/6 d    7116 80    7 /6d80 |     6 80    716 80   776 80   716 8u
Adjusted tus DulreslTaxes (-30%)   0 00    1342 83       301 37     296 38      560 70   454 02   454 02   655 48    47B 80   478 80   557 41    543 76   543 71   543 76   543 76   543 76   543 76   543 76   543 7t
Adjusled by scl (0 8)              a 00     1074 26     241 1p      237 10      448 56   363 22   363 22   524 38   383 04    383 04    445 93   435 0l   435 01   435 01    435 01   435 01    435 01   435 01   435 01
NetdnconI ha                                      3  000  -68576  44 0  5199 0     68894    11228    17228    989062    13096 00     3000    0 0807   107889    07899  (0788   1078399   100 89    1078099   103 09   1078 9
Phased lia                    ~3 00                          300         300         300       300       300      300       300       300       300      300       300       300      300       300       300       300      3001
3 00       3 00        3 00      3 00      3 00     3 00      3 00      3 00      3 00     3 00      3 00      3 00      3 00     3 00      3 00      3 00     3 00 r.
400        400       400       400       400      400       400       400       400      400       400       400       400      400       400       400 I
P liased Ilicolc                                  0 00    2087 2b1    1320 61     1559 69  2060 82  2316 85  2316 85  2068 85  3392 88  3392 88  3204 22  3236 98  3236 98  3236 98  3236 98  3236 98  3236 98  3236 98
000     208729      132061   155969  206082  231685  231685  296885  339288  339288   320422  323698  323698  323698  323698  323698   323698
0 00    2783 06  1760 81  20/9 58  2747 76  30M9 14  3089 14  3958 46  4523 84  4523 84  4272 29  4315 97  43 1597  431597  4315 97  4315 97
Iloa) Net Incomne Cuti Flower Dev        0 00       0 00    -2087 29     -66 68        97 24  5381 32  6457 26  7381 46  8374 84  9450 86 10744 22 11120 94 10965 03 10746 24 10789 92 10789 92 10789 92 10789 92 10789 92
G(and 1o4al NelIncome                -1207 17   -4225 51    6060 26    -2514 02      1670 82 11106 29 13695 45 15221 42 16357 38 17380 52 18453 13 18819 34 18501 71 18524 24 18675 12 18670 66 18654 02 18648 26 18648 26
1/ Assum   tIocalmtnla8onaltesof 90% 616%. 616/ 35%, andFE ofO 365%. 451%. 29% forlhe years 1993, 1994, 1995. and 1996. respec6lvely
_                      ~~~~     ~ ~        ~    ~ ~       ~~44%1  -  I  I  I -  I   I' - -                                               _ I  I_                                                                        -



-53-
APPENDIX C
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



-54-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECOND COFFEE PROJECT
(Cr. 1743-ZA)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Evaluation Summary
1.0 The overall objective of the Coffee 1I Project is to produce annually, 4,700 tons of high
quality arabica coffee from a hectarage of about 3,300 which would be established under the
Project. Specifically, the Project aims to provide credit facilities to smallholder, emergent and
comnmercial farmers for establishment and expansion of coffee plantings: to establish an
efficient coffee industry in Zambia; and to build up national expertise in management.
production and marketing of coffee. The Project's components are credit provision to coffee
farmers, coffee extension support, strengthening coffee research. technical assistance and
training in coffee marketing, and financial assistance to the then parasratal. Zambia Coffee
Company Limited (ZCCL).
2.0 The Project's objectives are clear and realistic as the countrv has alreadv established a base
for coffee production. The objectives are also in line with the overall long-term economic and
sector objectives and the Bank's strategy for agricultural development in Zambia. The project's
life cycle of seven years is also realistic.
3.0 The Project is being assessed half way through the initial planned implementation time
frame when the full impact is yet to be felt. However, the project has established a base for
increased coffee (and flower) production for both smallholder and commercial farmers. There
has been great response from smallholder farmers who have, with the support of project
extension staff, established sizeable coffee fields in the northern parts of Zambia. Two banks
have participated in the credit component. Those commercial farmers who have accessed credit
funds have been able to increase their coffee and cut flower hectarage. However. smallholder
farmers have not benefited from the credit funds. They also have not yet realized financial
rewards from their coffee plantines. This is due to the nature of the crop (3-4 years before
maturity). The extension component has performed verv well in establishinz coffee nurseries
and ensuring that smallholder farmners take up coffee production. The research cornponent has
not been effective due to lack of qualified personnel in coffee agronomy. The Project has been
able to train some ZCGA personnel in coffee marketing and liquoring, and has procured
laboratory equipment for the Association for coffee liquoring. The PMUL' has also performed
well in facilitating Project implementation.



-55-
[.0 The Project can be sustainable provided certain conditions are met. These include the
:'ollowing: need to ensure focussed extension support to smaliholder farmers that should cover
not only coffee nursery preparation. but coffee processing, storage. and marketing as well;
research efforts should address pressing problems of disease control, higher yielding varieties
and environmental management: smallholder farmers will need targeted credit that takes into
account their status. and credit funds should revolve for increased coffee, cut flower, soybeans,
and wheat production.Calculations of Economic and Internal Rates of Return for commercial
farmer coffee and cut-flowers enterprises indicates that they are both financially and
economically viable. Although the smallholder coffee does not come out well in terms of the
two ratios due to variances in assumptions. overall, one can say that the Coffee II Project is
sustainable.
5.0 According to the SAR. total costs of the Project. including physical and price contingencies
were estimated at US $34.9 million, with a foreign exchange component of US $ 21.8 millior
or 63 percent. The Project provided for an IDA credit of SDR 16.9 million.
6.0 The financing of the Project was to come from the Project itself, participating farmers anc
financial institutions contributions, government contribution and ZCCL. The PMU was tc
administer the extension. research, and marketing component funds, while the credit funds
were to be channelled through the participating banks. ZCCL was to be funded directly. The
original timetable for the Project was that it would be executed over a period of seven years
from 1987 to 1994. The actual implementation period of the Project is now 1993 to Decembei
31, 1996. In January. 1997, the Project is to be integrated into ASIP.
7.0 The Project was approved in 1987 and declared effective five years later in 1992. The
delay in effectiveness was as a result of changed circumstances, notably suspension ol
disbursement by the World Bank to Zambia, and policy and institutional changes by the
government of Zambia. Even after being declared effective, there were delays in commencinc
implementation which can largely be attributed to the Government of Zambia. There were
modifications to the project to take account of changed circumstances. notably with regard tc
the change in the executing agency. LINTCO was dropped out of being the promoter o
smallholder coffee production. Further, when implementation started, the Project was openec
up to carter for crops other than coffee such as cut-flowers, soybeans and wheat.
8.0 The Bank's performance in Project identification, appraisal and implementation has
generally been satisfactory. However, a lot more could have been achieved had the Bank done
better in speeding up disbursement and in helping to remove any bottlenecks in this area. Tht
borrower's performance was rather very unsatisfactory especially with regard to Project start
up and in removing impediments to the speedy implementation of the Project. However, once
implementation started. things began to move, particularly when the PMU was put in place
9.0 It is too early at this stage to give an accurate assessment of the Project outcome as th.
Project has just entered the third year of implementation. Most farmers who are participating
under the Project have not yet realized any earnings from their coffee and cut-flower fields
IHowever, the response from both smallholder and commercial farmers in terms of coffee an(
tlower production has been verv encouraging.



-56-
10.0 The group approach for smallholder coffee farmers is good for sustainability. Proje
Extension staff are applauded here for establishing nurseries and for being innovative t
giving the groups a small amount of credit in form of inputs (seedlings, chemicals, fertilizer
Smallholder farmers' response to coffee production has been very good. This is in spite 4
lack of credit from PBs. It is anticipated that once smallholder farmers start realizing earnint
from their coffee, more will take up coffee production.
11.0 Plans for future project operations are that the Project be integrated into ASIP in 199'
The Research and Extension components will easily be integrated into ASIP. However, it
important that the project extension staff are retained during integration. The ZCGA hz
expressed willingness to assist in marketing the smallholder coffee. The Credit component wi
have to operate within ASIP but as part of the private sector development. Once repaymen
start coming in, the credit funds will have to revolve. The revolving fund mechanism shoul
be administered on the basis of an appropriate institutional framework. The Coffee Board wi
have to play its regulatory role in ensuring that all players in the Coffee industry play their ro.
in accordance with the provisions of the Coffee Act.
12.0 Major lessons learnt from Project implementation so far include the fact that fc
smallholder farmers, the group approach is the most ideal way of encouraging increased coffe
production.There is need for simplified disbursement arrangements for credit funds for suc
a Project. The disbursement set-up under the Coffee II Project (from IDA to BOZ, from BO.
to PBs, and from PBs to the target group-farmers) has rather been slow, cumbersome an
costly to farmers.



-S7-                  '
.bp:mk- 2D393
RIC AORIMZA 43990
MRC. ZA 4009I
,Wmc AGRiM                           uEPBULIC OF ZAM3U
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FISHERIES
MULUNGUSHI HOUSE,  NEPENDNC AVEUE
P.O. BOX 50191
15 100  GEWAY
LUSAXA
4th June, 1997.
.Mfr. Raiah Ranasinghe
World Bank
Internarional Finance Corporation
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.
Re: ZANXBLA COFFEE II PROSECT: IRLEMENTATION CONOLETION
REPORT (ICER.
Refer to your fax message and the phone conversation we had vesterdav regardin tilhe
above suoject.
We have read the ICR and find it acceptable. ?iowever, a key question that the Report
does not adequately address aind for which we have great concern is the mechanism of
how the Credit funds (US S20.06 million) given out to 28 commercial coffee and 10 cut
flower producers will revolve. Farmers have insisced that thie funds should revolve.
particularly to support further cotree oroduction. Our other major concern is tlat
smallholder coffee farmers have not benefitted from the credit funds. It is therefore
imperative that some mechanism is found on how we can assist them- given zbat he
Project has created a good momernum that we should keep aoing by making available
credir funds, taking into account cheir starus. You may wish to note that alread , we
have information that some commnercial farmers who received their loans earlv have
already started repaying their loans to the two participating ban,cs, Zambia National
Commercial Bank and Development Bank of Zambia, who in turn are not remitting this
money to Bank of Zambia. Further, can you piease advise on whether it is possibie to
acctss the balance of the money remaining from the Project so that we can make it
available to small scale farmers. Our view is that these funds could be channelled to the
Coffee Board which could then make them available to th-e smail-holder coffee farmers.
Finally, you may also wish to consider some of the conclusions from the Borrower's






-58-
own ICR which was an input in the Bank's ICR.
Yours ely,
aw~1a
Acting Deputy Director
Economics and Marker Development Department
ForiPermanent Secretary
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FISHEREES.
cc. Mr Alex Mundia
Operations Officer (Agriculture)
World Bank Office, Lusaka.









IMAGING
Report No.:          16810
Type:     ICR



