OFF\CIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1743-ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Coffee Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1743-ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         vAAA          9     , 1987, between
THE   REPUBLIC  OF  ZAMBIA   (the  Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (th Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)  part of the Project will be carried out by the Zambia
Coffee Company Limited, a corporation registered under the laws
of the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.   Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)  "LINTCO" means the Lint Company of Zambia, a corpora-
tion registered under the laws of the Republic of Zambia;
(c)  "MAWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Development;


﻿-2-
(d)   "PMCC" means the Project Management and Coordination
Committee;
(e) "ZCCL" means the Zambia Coffee Company Limited, a cor-
poration registered under the laws of the Republic of Zambia;
(f) "Participating Bank" or "Participating Banks" means any
bank registered under the laws of the Borrower, which will borrow
part of the proceeds of the Credit from the Borrower and relend
such proceeds to the Sub-borrowers and which are acceptable to
the Association;
(g)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the individual
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and each
Participating Bank and between the Borrower and ZCCL pursuant to
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(h)   "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and ZCCL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules
and Agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i) "Financing Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and LINTCO pursuant to Section 3.05 of
this Agreement.
(j)   "Sub-Loans" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by the Participating Banks to a Sub-borrower for a Sub-project
which will be partly funded out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to the Participating Bank under the respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(k) "Sub-Project" means a specific project for the produc-
tion, processing or marketing of coffee to be carried out by a
sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Loan;
(1)   "Sub-borrower" means a smallholder, emergent or com-
mercial farmer engaged in the business of producing, processing
or marketing coffee who shall receive a Sub-Loan;
(m) "Sub-Loan Agreements" means an agreement to be entered
into between a Participating Bank and a Sub-borrower under which
the Sub-borrower shall obtain a Sub-loan to carry out a sub-
project;


﻿-3-
(n)    "Project  Preparation  Advance" means the    project
preparation advance (PPF Number P-364-ZA) granted by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
March 21, 1986, and April 25, 1986, between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(o) "Kwacha" means the local currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower. on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million nine hundred thousand Special Draw-
ing Rights (SDR 16,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars the following special accounts on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  The first
account to be in the name of Coffee II Project and for purposes
of Part A of the Project (the Credit Component Special Account)
shall be opened in the Bank of Zambia; the second to be in the
name of LINTCO and for purposes of Parts B and C of the Project
(the LINTCO Special Account) shall be opened in the Zambia
National Commercial Bank; and the third account to be in the name
of ZCCL and for purposes of Parts D and E of the Project (the
ZCCL Special Account) shall be opened in the Zambia National
Commercial Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿-4-
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1997, and ending September
15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions,


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate   agricultural,  administrative   and  environmental
practices, and the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) cause the Participating
Banks to carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association; (ii) cause LINTCO to carry out Part B of the
Project; (iii) cause ZCCL to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of ZCCL
therein set forth; and (iv) shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Participating Banks, LINTCO and ZCCL to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and there-
after maintain a Project Management Coordinating Committee (PMCC)
whose chairman shall be the Permanent Secretary of MAWD or his
designate and whose Secretary shall be the head of LINTCO's
Coffee Development Division. Other members of PMCC shall include
representatives from the Ministry of Finance, LINTCO, ZCCL, the
Coffee Research Unit of MAWD, Participating Banks and the Zambia
Coffee Growers' Association.
(b)  PMCC shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) coor-
dinating the activities of the institutions involved in carrying


﻿-6-
out the Project; (ii) approving annual coffee development plans
prepared by LINTCO; (iii) approving annual project lending
programs prepared by Participating Banks; (iv) approving coffee
research programs; and (v) monitoring implementation of the
Project and ensuring timely availability of in-puts and supplies
to farmers.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) relend the amount
allocated to and withdrawn under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to
Participating Banks for carrying out Part A of the Project, under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and each Participating Bank under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii) relend, in foreign currency, the amount allocated to and
withdrawn under Categories (4) and (5) to ZCCL for carrying out
Parts D and E of the Project under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ZCCL under terms and
conditions which shall have be2n approved by the Association and
which shall include, inter alia: (A) repayment of principal in
15 years including five years of grace; (B) interest rate of
not less than 8.23 percent (8,.23%) per annum plus a spread not
exceeding 4.5 percent; and (C) ZCCL to bear the foreign exchange
risk.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. In order to assist LINTCO to carry out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to LINTCO a
grant, in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of two million
dollars ($2,000,000), or such other amount as the Association
may agree, out of the proceeds of the Credit under a Financing
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and LINTCO,
under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all appropriate mea-
sures to ensure that the Participating Banks make Sub-loans
directly to Sub-borrowers for a Sub-Project under a Sub-Loan
agreement to be entered into between a Participating Bank and a


﻿-7-
Sub-borrower under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall be consistent with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all appropriate mea-
sures to ensure that Sub-borrowers utilize the proceeds of the
Credit for purposes of coffee production, processing and market-
ing.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) take the necessary
measures to enact the Coffee Act not later than June 30, 1987,
taking into account the Association's views; and (b) not later
than December 31, 1987, establish the Coffee Board pursuant to
the provisions of the Coffee Act.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause LINTCO to charge an
appropriate price for coffee input supply services and for coffee
marketing services so as to recover the full cost incurred in
offering such services.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of
Parts B and C of the Project, open and thereafter maintain in the
Bank of Zambia two Project Advance Accounts, deposit in each
account an initial amount of Kwacha 500,000 and replenish each
account at least quarterly thereafter so as to maintain it at
that level or such other level as the Association may request
until completion of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall implement appropriate mea-
sures to enable Sub-borrowers to retain part of their foreign
exchange earnings on coffee exports for the purposes of servicing
their foreign exchange Sub-loans.
Section 3.12. The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project. To that end,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project, in such detail and at such times as the Association
shall reasonably request.
Section  3.13. The   Borrower   shall: (a)   submit  to  the
Association for approval a list of pesticides and herbicides to
be used by ZCCL and Sub-borrowers; and (b) take appropriate
measures to ensure that ZCCL and Sub-borrowers do not use
pesticides and herbicides which have not been approved by the
Association.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accord-
ance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall or shall cause LINTCO to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Accounts and
the Project Advance Accounts for each financial
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently   applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the financial year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,


﻿-9-
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exam-
ine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Participating
Banks to maintain separate accounts for expenditures under the
Project and to: (i) have these accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each financial year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles  consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other   information  concerning   the   accounts  and   financial
statements of the Participating Banks and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of ZCCL or of any
Participating Bank or for the suspension of their operations.
(b)   ZCCL or any Participating Bank shall have failed to
perform any of the obligations under the respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and at
least two Participating Banks have been executed; and
(b)   the Borrower has opened and deposited the required
amounts of money into the Project Advance Accounts pursuant to
Section 3.10 of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by ZCCL and is legally binding upon
ZCCL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions,
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                            42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (1
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Credit under Part A         9,590,000      100% of sub-loans
of the Project                            extended in
foreign currency
and 75% of sub-
loans extended in
local currency
(2) For Part B of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'            1,400,000     100%
services and
training
(b) Equipment,                170,000     100% of foreign
vehicles and                         expenditures and
materials                            60% of local
expenditures
(3) For Part C of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'              170,000     100%
services and
training
(b) Civil works,              170,000     100% of foreign
vehicles and                         expenditures and
materials                            60% of local
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Categor                 SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Consultants' services         330,000      100%
and training under
Part D of the
Project
(5) For Part E of the
Project:
(a) Consultants' ser-        740,000      100%
vices and train-
ing
(b) Equipment, vehi-         330,000      100% of foreign
cles and civil                       expenditures and
works                                 60% of local
expenditures
(6) Refunding of Project          580,000      Amount due pur-
Preparation Advance                       suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                 3,420,000
TOTAL                 16,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 100,000 may be made on account of payments for expendi-
tures under Category 5(b) before that date but after November 1,
1986; (b) expenditures under Category (4) unless the Borrower has
submitted to the Association a signed Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
acceptable to the Association, entered into between the Borrower
and ZCCL; and (c) expenditures under Category 5 unless the Bor-
rower has submitted to the Association: (i) an irrigation plan of
the ZCCL plantation acceptable to the Association; (ii) an elec-
trification plan of the ZCCL coffee factory acceptable to the
Association; (iii) a corporate plan for ZCCL acceptable to the
Association and evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such plan has been adopted by ZCCL; (iv) a signed Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to the Association, entered into between
the Borrower and ZCCL; and (v) evidence satisfactory to the
Association showing that equity financing agreements for ZCCL
satisfactory to the Association have been executed.


﻿- 16 -
SC,HEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide credit
facilities to smallholders, emergent and commercial farmers for
the establishment and expansion of coffee farms; (ii) establish
an efficient coffee industry in the Republic of Zambia; and (iii)
build up national expertise in management, production and
marketing of coffee.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Credit
Provision of agricultural credit through the Participating
Banks to smallholders, emergent and commercial farmers for:
(a) the establishment and expansion of coffee plantings;
(b) irrigation facilities;
(c) farm implements and vehicles;
(d) coffee processing facilities and stores; and
(e) other   facilities  and  infrastructure  necessary  for
coffee production and marketing.
Part B:   Coffee Extension Services
Expansion and improvement of extension services provided by
LINTCO  to   farmers  through  the   strengthening  of  LINTCO's
workforce, the provision of technical assistance for coffee
extension support, vehicles, extension materials, equipment and
training of LINTCO staff and farmers.
Part C:   Coffee Research
Improving MAWD's coffee research activities through:


﻿- 17 -
(a) rehabilitation of trial sites and processing facilities
at Misamfu and Lucheche and the renovation of houses at
Lucheche;
(b) provision of laboratory and scientific equipment;
(c) provision   of farm   implements and   other equipment,
books, other publications and vehicles;
(d) provision of technical assistance to assist in carrying
out coffee research activities, and training for MAWD's
research staff;
(e) provision of equipment and materials for carrying out
soil and leaf analysis;
(f) establishment of collaborative coffee research arrange-
ments with neighboring countries; and
(g) environmental control analysis.
Part D:   Coffee Marketing
Developing institutional capability and capacity for coffee
marketing and improving ZCCL's coffee marketing division through
the provision of technical assistance and training in all aspects
of coffee marketing for ZCCL employees and for employees of other
marketing institutions.
Part E:   Assistance to ZCCL
Improving ZCCL's capability to produce and process coffee
through:
(a) provision of management and technical assistance to
improve agricultural practices and the operation of
ZCCL's coffee factory;
(b) provision of technical assistance to help ZCCL upgrade
irrigation and furrow-distribution systems;
(c) rehabiliation of the present irrigation equipment and
the installation of new irrigation equipment;


﻿- 18 -
(d) provision of study tours, on-the-job and overseas
training  for   ZCCL   staff  in   coffee  production,
processing, engineering and general management;
(e) electrification of ZCCL's coffee factory;
(f)  provision  of  vehicles,   agricultural  and  workshop
machinery   and   equipment,   office  equipment   and
facilities;
(g) construction of housing units for ZCCL       labor and
management staff;
(h) construction of a dispensary for ZCCL; and
(i) improvment of existing coffee plantings and expansion
of the coffee area to at least 450 hectares.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and wGrks shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equip-
ment, supplies and materials shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
For Part A of the Project
1.   Contracts for goods and civil works may be procured on the
basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods or civil works.
For Parts B, C, D and E of the Project
2.     Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.      Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000 each up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $300,000 may be procured under contracts


﻿- 20 -
awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
4.     Contracts for the construction of civil works shall be
awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Contracts for the electrification of the ZCCL factory under
Part E of the Project shall be procured by direct contracting
procedures described in paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Accounts in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 21 -
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist: (i) the Borrower in carrying out Tart C
of the Project; (ii) LINTCO in carrying out Part B of the
Project; and (iii) ZCCL in carrying out Parts D and E of the
Project, the Borrower shall or shall cause the employment of
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation of Part A of the Project
The relevant terms and conditions herein shall be suitably
incorporated in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Bor-
rower and the Participating Banks and Sub-Loan Agreements between
the Participating Banks and Sub-borrowers:
1.   Appraisal and Eligibility
The Participating Banks shall appraise each Sub-Project in
accordance with the Sub-Project appraisal criteria agreed upon
with the Association and including the following:
(a) creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower;
(b) management and expertise of the Sub-borrower;
(c) technical and financial viability of the Sub-Project;
(d) supply and marketing plans of the Sub-borrower;
(e)  technical feasibility; and
(f) plans for at least 10 ha of irrigated coffee.
In the case of small scale farmers or groups thereof, exceptions
from these appraisal criteria may be made as appropriate in the
circumstances.
2.   The Borrower shall obtain prior approval from the Associa-
tion in respect of: (a) the first three Sub-Loan applications
from  each  Participating   Bank;  and  (b) a    Sub-Loan  for  a
Sub-Project which cost is estimated to be the equivalent of
$500,000 or more.
3.   Sub-Loan Agreements
A.    The Participating Bank shall make Sub-Loans on terms
whereby it shall obtain, by contract with the Sub-borrower or
other legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Borrower, the Association and the Participating Bank includ-
ing, for each Sub-Loan, the right to:


﻿- 23 -
(i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out the Sub-Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound agricultural, financial and management
standards, and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Borrower or of the Association if the Association
shall so request, such goods, works, sites and planta-
tions included in the Sub-Project, the operation
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(iii) obtain such information as the Borrower, the Associa-
tion or the Participating Banks shall reasonably
request relating to the management, operations and
financial condition of the Sub-borrower; and
(iv) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
such Sub-borrower to perform its obligtions under the
Sub-Loan agreement with the Participating Bank.
B.   The Borrower shall make sure that the Sub-Loan Agree-
ments to be entered into between the Participating Bank and the
Sub-borrower shall contain, inter alia, the following:
(i) Purpose of Sub-Loans
Sub-Loans shall be extended for the establishment of coffee
plantations, installation of irrigation facilities, purchase of
required machinery and tools, and the establishment of coffee
processing facilities.
(ii)   Sub-Loan Amount
Each Participating Bank shall ensure that each Sub-borrower
contributes not less than 25% of the total investment cost of the
Sub-Project (including labor at the going wage rate, overhead as
well as operating expenses).
(iii)   Currency Denomination of the Sub-Loans
Depending on the preference of the Sub-borrower, part of the
Sub-Loan to be extended by the Participating Banks may be in
foreign currency provided, however, that such part should not
exceed the foreign cost component of the Sub-Project.


﻿- 24 -
(iv)   Repayment
Repayment of principal and interest of the Sub-Loan shall be
over a period of 12 years, in semiannual installments which may
increase gradually in line with the estimated growth of coffee
production. The Sub-Loans shall have a grace period of up to 5
years for the repayment of principal, and of up to 4 years on
interest repayments from the date of withdrawal, during which
period interest may be capitalized if cash flow projections
require.
(v)   Interest Rate
Interest rates for foreign currency denominated Sub-Loans
and Kwacha denominated Sub-Loans shall be determined separately.
The interest rates shall be in line with national policy on
agricultural lending and acceptable to the Association as
follows:
(a)  the rate of interest payable by the Particpating Bank
to the Borrower on each portion of the amount withdrawn for the
Kwacha part of a Sub-Loan shall be equal to the interest rate
charged by the Participating Bank to the Sub-borrower for such
portion of the Sub-Loan less a rate not exceeding 4.5%; and
(b)  the rate of interest payable by the Particpating Bank
to the Borrower on each portion of the amount withdrawn for the
foreign currency part of the Sub-Loan shall be 8.23% per annum,
and the Participating Bank shall charge a rate of 8.23% plus a
spread not exceeding 4.5%.
(vi)   Collateral
Sub-borrowers shall give as collateral mortgages on real
estate whenever possible, liens on machinery and on coffee crops.
Members of the smallholder groups shall be liable jointly and
severally.
(vii)   Procurement
(a) Sub-borrowers shall: (A) purchase goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-Loan at reasonable
prices on the basis of their normal procurement procedures taking
into account other relevant factors such as time of delivery,
efficiency and quality; and (B) use such goods and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-Project.


﻿- 25 -
(b)   Sub-borrowers shall ensure that pesticides and herbi-
cides to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-Loans shall
conform to the list of pesticides and herbicides approved by the
Borrower and the Association pursuant to Section 3.13 of this
Agreement.
(viii)   Withdrawal of Funds
Withdrawal of funds shall be in accordance with Sub-Project
investment schedule in the feasibility study and progress of
works.
(ix)   Insurance
Sub-borrowers shall obtain adequate fire and other appro-
priate insurance for buildings, machinery and coffee crops.
(x)   Supervision
Supervision of the Sub-Projects shall be done by specialist
staff at the Participating Banks with assistance from LINTCO and,
ca a sample basis, by the Association during supervision
missions.
(xi)   Consultation
At the request of the Borrower and the Association, a Parti-
cipating Bank shall exchange views with the Borrower and the
Association in regard to the progress of the Sub-Projects, the
performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of this Project.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in respect of
the Credit Component Special Account, Category (1) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (ii) in
respect of the LINTCO Special Account, Categories (2) and (3) set
forth in the said table; and (iii) in respect of the ZCCL Special
Account, Categories (4) and (5) set forth in the said table.
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$1,000,000 in respect of the Credit Component Special Account; an
amount of $300,000 in respect of the LINTCO Special Account and
an amount of $300,000 in respect of the ZCCL Special Account to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the respective Special Accounts may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account concerned such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 27 -
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account concerned such amounts as shall be
required to replenish that Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of that Special Account
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Accounts shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the


﻿- 28 -
eligible  Categories   shall  follow   such  procedures   as  the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account concerned (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account concerned shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


