RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN                                             RESTRICTED
ONE  WEEK              Fl            P                      R e p o r t N o. TO-288a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. It may not be published
nor may it be quoted as representing the Bank's views. The Bank accepts no
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
APPRAISAL OF AN EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
VENEZUELA
August 28, 1961
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Exchange Rate:
1 US dollar   =  3. 35 Bs (Bolivares)
lBs           = US$ .30
Bs 1, 000.000 = US $ 300. 000
Free Market Exchange Rate:
1 US dollar    = 4. 58 Bs
VENEZUELAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30, until June 30, 1961.
January 1 to December 31, from January 1, 1962.



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF AN EXPBRESSWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SMVIOARY                                                    i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                1
II. RELEVANT FEATURES OF THE COUNTRY                             1
A. Geographical                                        1
B.  Population; distribution and occupation            1
C.  Public Transportation Facilities                   2
III.  BACKGROUND TO PROPOSED PROJECT                              3
A.  General Highway Responsibilities                   3
B.  Ministry of Public Works (M.O.P.)                  4
C.  Directorate of Highways                            4
D.  Consultants and Contractors                        5
E.  Highway Network and Investments                    6
F. Highway Maintenance Organization                    7
G. Four-Year Highway Development Plan                  8
H.  Bank General Survey Mission Findings               9
IV. DETAILS OF PROJECT                                          10
A.  Description                                       10
B. Design, Contract Documents and Bidding
Procedures                                       10
C.  Execution, Supervision and Maintenance            11
D.  External Technical Assistance                     12
E.  Estimates of Cost                                 13
F.  Local and Foreign Currency Components of Cost    14
G.  Annual Investment and Financing                   14
H.  Composition of Bank Loan and Disbursement Flow   16
V.  TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF PROJECT             17
A.  Areas Directly Affected                           17
B.  Technical Justification                           18
C.  Direct Economic Returns                           18
D.  Additional Benefits and Toll Revenues             19
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOF1'EEGNDATJONS                          20
ANNJEXES



ANNEXES
APPENDIX  1   Technical Justification
APPENDIX  2   Derivation and Analysis of Average Truck and Car Operating Costs
APPENDIX  3   Appraisal of Direct Economic Returns
APPENDIX  4   Assessment of Toll Revenues
TABLE   1     Domestic Freight Movements by Various Transportation Facilities
TABLE   2     Domestic Passenger Movements by Various Transportation Facilities
TABLE   3     Record of Vehicle Registration, 1948-58
TABLE   4     Geometric Design Standards
TABLE   5     M.O.P. Highway Investments for Period 1954-61
TABLE   6     Details of Actual and Estimated Annual Project Expenditure
TABLE   7     Estimated Local and Foreign Currency Component of Autopista
Construction Costs
TABLE   8     Classification of Motor Vehicles, 1958
TABLE   9     Average Truck Operating Costs, 1959
TABLE  10     Present Toll Charges on Different Autopistas
TABLE  11     Practicel. Vehicle Capacities of Old and New Highway Facilities
TABLE  12     Return on Investment, Coche - Tejerias Section
TABLE  13     Return on Investment, Valencia - Puerto Cabello Section
FIGURE  1     Organization of M.O.P.
FIGURE  2     Organization of the Directorate of Highways
FIGURE  3     Chart of Vehicle Registrations, 1948-58
MAP  1        Venezuela:  Physical and Political
MAP  2        Highway Network
MAP  3        Project Expressways



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF AN EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
SUIARY
i.        The Government of Venezuela has requested the Bank to assist in
financing a part of its four-year Highway Development Plan which has been
programmed from July 1960 through June 1964. The foreign currency require-
ments of a highway project suitable for Bank financing amount to US$45 million
equivalent; this would be the first Bank loan to Venezuela.
ii.       The project comprises the completion of construction of about 94 km
of multi-lane, toll expressways or "autopistas". Two separate sections of
autopista are involved, one of 59 km in length from Tejerias to Coche (a sub-
urb of Caracas), in continuation of the existing expressway from Valencia,
and the other of 35 km in length from Valencia to Puerto Cabello.
iii.      The Ministry of Public Works will be executive agency; its organiza-
tion is capable of directing and maintaining a project of this magnitude.
Technical details of the project appear to be sound and well-engineered; con-
tract procedures and methods proposed for execution are satisfactory and
accord with normal Bank  policy.  A period of about 3-2 years is required for
completion of the project works.
iv.       A consulting engineering firm,satisfactory to the Bank and employed
upon terms of reference approved by the Banl, will be retained by the Govern-
ment in an advisory capacity to review the project designs and specifications
and to advise generally on supervision and materials testing.
v.        Estimates of construction cost and of the foreign currency component
are realistic. Adequate annual budget appropriations have been assured by the
Government to cover the local currency component of cost; the proposed loan
funds would make up the remainder of the construction cost.
vi.       The estimated total construction cost to complete the project after
January 1, 1961, when construction was about 11% complete, is Bolivares 400
million (US$120 million equivalent); Bank participation would be equivalent
to the foreign exchange component of the construction cost and engineering
services amounting to US$45 million equivalent.
vii.      The project will yield a reasonable economic return on capital in-
vestment, resulting principally from the savings in vehicle operating costs
by using the new highway facilities as an alternative to the existing inade-
quate and cozgested roads.



- ii -
viii.     Financial returns from highway toll revenues in Venezuela are not
applied to the liquidation of the investment but merely provide a source of
additional national revenue; gross financial returns from the project are
estimated to average about Bs 25 million annually over the first ten years
of operation.
ix.       Financing and technical aspects of the project as indicated in
Chapter VI of this report were discussed and agreed during loan negotiations.
The project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of USW45 million equiva-
lent to the Government; an appropriate term would be 20 years including a
four-year period of grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Venezuela has requested the Bank to assist in
financing a part of its 4-year Highway Development Plan, which has been
programmed from July 1960 through June 1964.
2.        Towards the end of 1959 a General Survey Mission from the Bank
visited Venezuela at the invitation of the Government to study and make re-
commendations on the 4-year development plan; this highway appraisal report
takes into consideration the findings of that mission in the field of trans-
portation, also the findings of a separate highway mission to Venezuela in
August/September 1960, and the submissions of the Ministry of Communications
to the Bank in IMarch and Hlay of 1961.
3.        The highway project reviewed in this report comprises the com-
pletion of toll expressways or autopistas in the northern region of the
country, construction of which commenced some years ago.
II. RELEVANT FEATURES OF THE COUNTRY
A. Geographical
4.        Venezuela (see Hap 1) has an area of about 910,000 sq.km., larger
than Texas and about twice the size of Spain. The plains of the River Ori-
noco and its tributaries form a low median belt running roughly West to
East, separating the rolling mountainous area of the South from the higher
mountainous spur of the Andes which runs parallel to the Caribbean coastline
in the North. The climate of the South and the Orinoco basin is tropical
with heavy rainfall, while that of the North is generally more temperate
with somewhat lighter rainfall.
B. Population: distribution and occupation
5.        The population of Venezuela at the present time is estimated at
somewhat more than 7 million and is increasing at a net rate of almost 31%
per annum. Over 951% of the total population live in the upland northern
belt of the country, while 50% of the total reside in the nine largest cities.
6.        The political subdivisions of Venezuela comprise 20 States, one
Federal District and two Federal Territories, with a central Government
located in Caracas. About one third of the total population live in the three
States of Miranda, Aragua, Carabobo and in the Federal District, which would
be linked by the autopistas proposed for Bank financing. The average popula-
tion density in these States and the Federal District is over 100 per km2
compared Twith an overall country average of 7 per km2. As seen from Map 2
a fairly dense network of existing roads serves to integrate the wihole of
the northern area, although some of these roads, particula'ly in the vicinity
of the project autopistas, are badly congested and inadequate even for present
day traffic volumes.



-2-
7.        Figures of occupational activities indicate that by far the major-
ity of the total working population (comprising about 40% of the total pop-
ulation) is engaged in industry, cormmerce, or public service, while about
one third of the working population is engaged in agriculture.
C. Public Transportation Facilities
8.        The transportation needs of the Venezuelan public are met for the
most part by highways. The concentration of population and of industrial
and economic activity in the mountainous Northern region of the country has
encouraged the development of highway facilities, w4hich are more suited to
this type of terrain.
9.        Tables 1 and 2 indicate the approximate amounts of freight and
passengers carried during the past few years by various transportation facil-
ities. The highway system constitutes by far the most significant carrier,
accounting for over 95% of freight and over 90% of passenger movements. The
second largest carrier is the railroad system, but existing lines are gen-
erally relatively short in length and rates charged are not usually compet-
titive with highway transport.  Progressively smaller amounts of freight
and numbers of passengers have been carried annually by the railroads over
the past 15 years, and during this period about 680 km of railroad have been
abandoned as uneconomic.
10.       Table 3 indicates the numbers of motor vehicles registered in dif-
ferent categories from 1948 through 1958.  The composition of the vehicle
fleet has changed gradually but uniformly over this period; the numbers of
heavier vehicles such as buses and trucks make up progressively less of the
total due to the higher annual increase in numbers of cars, until at the
present time heavy vehicles comprise about 30% of the total and cars make
up the remaining 70%. The general composition of the expected traffic has
a bearing on the type of road best suited to meet public transportation re-
quirements. A high proportion of fast passenger traffic justifies consider-
ation of roads designed and constructed to high geometric standards for re-
latively high speeds-
11.       The past growth and the present trend of vehicle registrations is
indicated in Fig. 3. The projected annual increment of the total vehicle
fleet for the next few years is around 8% - 9%; the numbers of passenger
cars appear to be increasing at a slightly higher rate. It is likely that
the future vehicle growth will fall off slightly after a few years beoanse
of a lower rate of growth in income and also because of the possible con-
tinued import restrictions or the continued application of the penalty ex-
change rate on automobile i,Iports.
12.       From the limited records of vehicle registration figures available
within individual States, it is evident that the vehicle growth rates are
appreciably higher in some States than the general average. A relatively
high vehicle growth rate is noticeable in the States of Aragua and Carabobo
and may be attributed to the industrial development and urbanization in these
States over the recent years, particularly in the vicinity of such cities
as 1,1aracay, Valencia and Puerto Cabello.



13.       An indication of the importance of the motor vehicle as a means
of transportation in Venezuela is afforded by a consideration of the ratio
of population to total vehicles registered as compared to figures for other
countries (see table below):
RATIO OF POPULATION TO MOTOR VEHICLES IN DIFFERENT COUNTRIES, 1958
India       .....       ......... 690
Ecuador  ......        ,.   ...... 170
Colombia  ........... ...  85
Mexico         ..............  50
Italy .............  26
Venezuela ****...............*  22
Netherlands i.....       .....S  19
Western Germany      .15
U.S.A    . ......       .........   2.5
World Average              .....  27
14.       As the ratio appears to be decreasing at a relatively fast rate
in Venezuela, conditions regarding population density per vehicle will be
comparable with those in the Netherlands or Western Germany in a few years,
time.
15.       It follows that any highway project to improve transport conditions
for high-traffic areas in Venezuela will directly affect a relatively larger
proportion of the population and cmnsequently influence the general economy
to a relatively higher degree than in most developing countries.
III. BACKGROUTD TO PROPOSED PROJECT
A. General Highway Responsibilities
16.       Within the Central Governrxent, responsibility for the public high-
way system is vested primarily in the 1linistry of Public Works; other
Government, Regional and private agencies engage in road construction
to a minor extent. A Government agency (IlCordiplani?) within the Office of
the President, coordinates public planning including highways.
17.       Investments in roads through different Government agencies, based
upon budget appropriations for the current fiscal year and expressed as a %
of the total, are given below; small amounts are expended on public roads
by private agencies such as oil and steel companies, but records of these
expenditures are not readily available.
RELATIVE IIEVE-STEH1ENTS III ROADS, 1960-61
Ilinistry of Public Works ....90.6%
MIinistry of Agriculture ............   4.0%
State Authorities under the iiinistrv
of Interior Relations ...   5.4%
100 %



18.       The 11inistry of Finance is responsible for the collection of tolls
from users of the autopista facilities, of which some 160 km have been com-
pleted to date. Toll revenues are absorbed into the National Treasury and
are not aoplied specifically to the liquidation of the investment in the
highway nor towards the cost of its operation or maintenance.
19,       The Ministry of Communications undertakes minor but important high-
way work connected with traffic signs and road markings, and is also res-
ponsible for the control of vehicle weights and dimensions. Mviore effective
results in carrying out these duties would probably be obtained if the res-
ponsibility could be transferred to the Ministry of Public Works, as highway
design authority,
20.       Policing of traffic on roads other then toll roads is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Communications; on toll roads, traffic is con-
trolled by the National Guard of the I'inistry of Defense.
B. Ministry of Public Works
21.       The present organization of the iiinistry of Public Works is in-
dicated in Fig. (1). Suggestions for improving the organization are reviewed
regularly and reported upon to the Minister of Public Works by a "Comite de
Organizacion y Metodoc (C.0.1.)" which comprises all Assistant-Directors in
the Ministry under the chairmanship of an official from Cordiplan, the
Government planning agency.
22.       A Ministerial Order relating to employment within the Ministry of
Public Works provides some security of office for employees below the level
of Assistant-Directors; at such level and above, however, appointments are
political. Cordiplan, through the "Comision de Administracion Publica
(C.A.P)" is promoting the study of a more comprehensive Civil Service Law
for presentation in due course to Congress.
23.       The total budget appropriation of the Ministry of Public Works for
the  last  fiscal year (July 1, 1960 through June 30, 1961) vas Bs 1.13
billion (US%340 million). Of this total, the Directorate of Highways absorbed
the highest allocation of around 26%, the Directorate of Buildings about 17%,
and the Directorate of Maintenance about 15% (this being the allocation for
all public works maintenance, including highways).
24.       There is a fully mechanized and efficient central accounting branch
in the Administration Directorate of the M4inistry, with subsidiary branches
in the various technical Directorates.
C. Directorate of Highways
25.       The organization of the Directorate of Highways is indicated in
Fig. (2). The posts of Director and Assistant-Director are filled by polit-
ical appointment from suitably qualified personnel. A certain continuity
in administration is maintained through the Chiefs of Divisions who normally
remain in office after political changes; their work is coordinated by the
Chief of the Planning and Coordination Division.



- 5 -
26.       Until recently, the Directorate of Highways undertook most of its
design and supervisory work on roads, bridges and tunnels through Consultirg
Engineers, and retained only a few experienced officials on its staff to
supervise and coordinate the Consultants' work.  There is a tendency now for
the Directorate to increase its technical staff and to undertake more design
and supervisory work departmentally.
27.       The present staff of the Directorate is generally competent and
experienced in handling major construction works. In addition to a compre-
hensive training in Venezuela, most of the senior members of the staff have
attended engineering courses outside the country; foreign experts are also
retained to assist and advise on tunnel and paving work.
28.       The maintenance of highways is the responsibility of the separate
Directorate of iviaintenance, described in detail in paragraphs 38 - 43.
D. Consultants and Contractors
29.       As a direct result of the former policy of the Ministry to delegate
highTway design work, a large number of local Consulting Engineering firms
have developed and are now established in Venezuela. These firms are usually
highly specialized in one or two of the different aspects of highway engineer-
ing and are sometimes limited in staff and capacity, but nonetheless they
produce some excellent, though somewqhat ambitious and lavish, designs.
30.       All major construction work is undertaken by contract after public
bidding. Because of the large number of contractors usually interested in
bidding the iNiinistry normally requires prequalification details to be sub-
mitted and then invites selected firms (not less than five in number) to
prepare bids.
31.       There are no limitations on participation by foreign firms provided
t-ie firms are approved and registered with the Venezuelan Chamber of Commerce
and the project engineer is likewise duly registered with the Engineers'
Association (C.I.V.); no difficulty in registration is likely to be experi-
enced by competent applicants.  The presence of a large force of wrell-eauipped
domestic contractors has so far discouraged foreign participation in highway
construction to any great extent. There are about six to seven hundred
domestic building contracting firms presently registered in Venezuela of which
about sixty are considered by the .Iinistry to be sufficiently competent and
qualified to produce sound highway construction work.  A number of Venezuelan
highway contractors have executed good work on Bank-financed projects outside
their own country.
32.       With a view to distributing work as much as possible amongst the
large force of domestic contractors, the lHinistry has adopted a practice of
dividing the construction of a length of road into a number of separate con-
tracts for different categories of work such as earthworks, culverts, bridges,
paving, and even for soiling and grassing slopes.   This practice often
creates difficulties for the supervisory staff when attempting to apportion
responsibility to particular contractors for any failures which may occur.



- 6 -
A procedure whereby a single main contractor would undertake the responsi-
bility for all types of construction work within a specific length of road,
with approved subcontractors executing the more specialized parts of the
works, would probably overcome these difficulties. During loan negotiations
suitable procedures were discussed and agreed in principle for the balance
of construction contracts in the project.
E. Highway Network and Investments
33.       The present basic highway network of Venezuela (see Map 2) has more
than tripled in length since 1947. There is a concentration of roads in the
densely populated area to the north of the country and a predominance of east-
west roads in conformity with the topographical features.
34.       At the end of 1959, the length of public roads totalled some 34,000
kms, and private roads (owned principally by oil and mineral companies) about
5,000 to 6,000 kms. A classification of public roads according to type is
given below:
Public Highway System. 1959
Autopistas                           195 Km
Paved Roads                        6,556 Km
Gravelled Roads                   10,520 Km       17,235 Km
Earth Roads and Cart Tracks                       16,620 Km
Total                                        33,855 Km
35.       The Ministry of Public Works is responsible for the construction
and maintenance of about 90% of the public highway system.
36.       Five basic types or classes of road have been used in developing
the present network; geometric design details for these types are given in
Table 4, and are generally satisfactory although shoulder widths are somewhat
limited. The specific standards for autopista design and construction are
satisfactory. In contrast to previous practice, the Highways Directorate
is now giving increased attention to the design and construction of roads
on the basis of their anticipated future traffic volumes.
37.       The investments of the Highways Directorate of the Ministry in
road construction for the period 1954 through 1961 average Bs 426 million
annually (see Table 5). There was a relatively high rate of investment
during the years 1957 through 1959 when construction was at a peak due to
the policies being followed by the previous Government. Construction con-
tracts often included short-term financing by contractors, and consequently
budgets after this period include substantial sums allocated to meet amorti-
zation and interest payments on previously incurred debts. Of the total
highway budget of Bs 279 million for the current fiscal year, about Bs 56
million is assigned for such purposes. The Government better appreciates
now the undesirable aspects of contractor financing and the practice is being
discontinued.



- 7-
F. Highway Maintenance Organization
38.       A separate Directorate within the Mlinistry is charged with the
maintenance of public works including ports, airports, highways and bridges;
the present organization of this Directorate is shown in Figure 1. A planning
body within the Ministry, "CO.M." (comite de Organizecion y Metodos), is
presently reviewing the organization of the Maintenance Directorate and con-
sidering possible changes in lines of authority in order to bring Zone Engineers
into more direct contact with the Director of Highways.
39.       Within the Maintenance Directorate and Zone depots, about 80% to
85% of effort and expenditure are directed towards the maintenance and im-
provement of highways and bridges. The portion of the current maintenance
budget allocated for these purposes is about Bs 160 million, a considerable
reduction from the previous two years, but high in relation to the quantity
of work involved. The principal reason for the high cost of maintenance work
may be attributed to the large number of laborers employed to help alleviate
the serious unemployment problem within the country, and the high wages and
social benefits paid by way of special relief in accordance with Government
policy.
40.       A rough check on average costs of routine maintenance coupled with
minor betterment for metalled roads in five States indicated expenditures
between about US$2,000 to over US$3,300 per km equivalent which is many times
higher than the normal average for Latin America.  These figures, moreover,
do not include depreciation of maintenance equipment, but only the cost of
labor, materials, repair parts, fuel and lubricants. The ratio of "laborers:
kilometers of road maintained" was high in all five States, varying from
about 0.9 to 1.7, and resulting in the labor portion of the maintenance costs
being as high as 7% to 80%.
41.       Allocations for routine highway maintenance in the four years of
the development program indicate no change in the Government's policy of
channelling unemployment relief through highway maintenance allocations.
The average amount allocated for the three fiscal years 1961/62 through
1963/64 is about Bs 85 million compared with a figure for the current year
of Bs 78 million.
42.       New maintenance workshops and warehouses have recently been con-
structed or are under construction in different Zones throughout the country.
Despite the large labor force, the degree of mechanization is still relatively
high. Maintenance equipment at present in use has a current value of around
US$8 million; additional equipment and vehicles to a value of US$4.8 million
will be purchased during the present fiscal year. The Ministry is considering
making the purchases from new or used stocks already in the country, and
presently held by banks or financing agencies which have acquired equipment
by foreclosure on bankrupt construction contractors. This method of purchase
does not appear to lend itself easily to Bank participation, and the finan-
cing of maintenanceequipment has therefore not been included in the project.



- 8 -
43.       The condition of the highway network generally is very good; Zone
and depot engineers have an adequate knowledge of maintenance requirements,
but sometimes work to higher standards than are necessary. There appears to
be a need for a rather more conservative and stringent policy in the expen-
diture of highway maintenance funds.
G. Four-Year Highwav Development Plan
44.       As part of its overall development program for the country, the
Government is proposing a capital investment in highway construction and im-
provement during the four years commencing July 1, 1960, of some Bs 1.54
billion (US$460 million), coupled to a current or administrative expenditure
during that period of Bs 398 million (IU$120 million) for study, design,
supervision, and routine maintenance. The proposed program of annual expen-
diture is as follows:
Proposed Highway Investment Program. 1960-1964
(million Bolivares)
1960/61     1961/62      1962/63     1963/64       Total
Capital                (278         288          478         436        (1,480
( 56*                                            (  56*
Current                 104          96           98          100          398
Total             (382         384          576         536        (1,878
( 56*         __(__56*
* 56 million has been allocated to pay Contractorst
debts incurred in previous years.
45.       The average annual total investment in highways over the four years
of the program (excluding service of previous debts) is around Bs 470 million
(US$140 million) which represents about 8% to 9% of the total Government
budget expenditures for the present year.
46.       The lengths of road proposed for construction or improvement and
the resulting change in the basic highway network after completion of the
four-year program are indicated below:



- 9 -
Proposed Highway Development, 1960-64
(kilometers)
Situation     Four-Year Development Plan      Situation
at end 1959     Construction  Improvement    at end 1964
Urban
Autopistas             M9               33                            82
Total Urban          49                                            82
National
Autopistas            159               94           -               253
Paved               6,556            1,832        +5,741         14,129
Gravelled          10,520                         -5,741          4.779*
Total National   17,235                                        19,161
* This length will be supplemented by the
highway works of other official agencies.
H. Bank General Survey Yiission Findings
47.       The recommendations of a Bank-organized general survey mission to
Venezuela in late 1959 were taken into account when considering the possible
application of Bank funds to some part of the Government's highway develop-
ment program.
48.       Map 2 indicates the mission's recommendations regarding priority
of highway construction in order to contribute maximum benefit to the national
economy. These priority roads were discussed generally between senior Govern-
ment officials and the Bank's highway appraisal mission of August/September
1960, and the following roads were selected for specific consideration re-
garding possible Bank financing:
Approximate
cost to
complete from
Reference                     Road                     Length        July 1960 
(ki)        (Bs millior.)
A     Autopista, Coche (Caracas) - Tejerias           59             273
B     Autopista, Valencia - Puerto Cabello            35             168
C     Sections of Caracas - Barcelona                150             55
D     Barinas - San Cristobal (parts)                220              90
49.       Since road "C" is expected to be completed around the middle of
1961, and since studies, designs and cost estimates for parts of Road "D" have
not yet been completed, serious consideration was limited to autopistas "A"
and "B" for the present Bank project. When engineering and economic studies
for the remaining length of Road "D" have been completed, they will be pre-
sented to the Bank for consideration for possible future financing.



- 10 -
IV. DETAILS OF PROJECT
A. Description
50.       The project will form part of a complex of expressways proposed
for the North-Central region of the country; it comprises the completion of
construction of two separate sections of controlled-access toll roads or
autopistas as shown in Map 3 and would include the construction of earthworks,
bridges, viaducts, tunnels, paving, interchanges, toll stations and compensa-
tory works such as the diversion of rivers, the relocation of existing roads
and services and the construction of agricultural underpasses and service
tracks.
51.       The first autopista section is 59 km long and runs from Coche (a
suburb of Caracas) to Tejerias. It will connect the metropolitan expressway
system with a 100 km length of four-lane autopista recently completed between
Tejerias and Valencia. The first 8 km of the project autopista from Coche
coincides with a section of the proposed outer-ring road around Caracas, and
provision has therefore been made for six lanes of traffic and for partial
construction of interchanges which will constitute part of the ring road; the
remaining length of Tejerias will carry four lanes of traffic. At about the
half-way point provision will be made for a future extension of the autopista
system to the east. Parts of the project road are already under construction
by domestic contractors; about 18% of the total work was completed at the end
of 1960.
52.       The second autopista section is 35 km long and connects the indus-
trial city of Valencia with the existing coastal road to Puerto Cabello at
El Palito.   Near its southern end, provision will be made for a future ex-
tension of the autopista to by-pass Valencia; at its northern end, it will
eventually connect with a proposed new East-West coastal highway between
Puerto Cabello and Moron. The first 5 km of project road from Valencia is
a continuation of an existing four-lane facility and will be constructed to
the same width. The nature of the terrain over the remaining length would
make future road widening difficult and expensive. Earthworks, bridges and
tunnels will therefore be constructed to six-lane widths now, but only four
lanes will be paved until such time as traffic volumes justify extra pavement
width. A 7 km length of the road is already under construction by domestic
contractors; about 4% of the total work was completed at the end of 1960.
B. Design. Contract Documents and Bidding Procedures
53.       The original geometric and structural designs were prepared by
Venezuelan consulting engineers experienced in the execution of similar high-
way work within the country; pavement designs have been prepared in the
Ministry. Thorough soil studies were carried out as a preliminary to design.
Certain changes in original geometric alignment have been introduced by the
technical staff of the Ministry, principally with a view to eliminating ex-
pensive refinements. The final alignment and design standards appear satis-
factory.



- 11 -
54.       Schedules of quantities for construction work have been prepared
by the consulting engineers and checked by the Ministry. It has been possible
for the design staff of the Ministry to consider the relative merits of many
different alternative alignments by employing the latest modern techniques
including the use of electronic computers for determining earthwork quantities.
55.       As stated previously in paragraph 31, there are no restrictions on
participation by foreign contracting firms in highway construction work in
Venezuela. The Ministry's bidding procedures, contract documents and bond
requirements for the project works are satisfactory. Contract documents pro-
vide for a 10% advance payment to contractors upon signature, such advance
being amortized by 10% deductions from the monthly statements of work executed
by the contractor.
56.       The documentation and methods of payment to contractors for work
already executed are such that disbursement from Bank loan funds against pro-
ject expenditures could be considered retroactively to any base date decided
upon.
C. Execution, Supervision and Maintenance
57.       Expropriation of land required for construction has already been
completed for 65% of the length of the Coche--Tejerias section and for 18%
of the Valencia--Puerto Cabello section; the Ministry anticipates no diffi-
culties in acquiring the remainder under the present expropriation laws.
58.       Major construction contracts already  under execution on the project
vary in length from about 3 km to 8 km,, and in amounts up to Bs 16 million
(US$5 million) with a common average around Bs 10 million (US$3 million).
This size of contract should not limit the interest of foreign firms in future
bidding. During loan negotiations it was agreed that the balance of the
project works will be sub-divided into sections of around Bs 10 million esti-
mated cost, and that international bidding procedures will be adopted. It
was further agreed that, to the extent possible, minor works which are now
let as separate contracts, will be incorporated into one main contract for
a specific length of autopista, with provision being made for subcontracting
these minor works where appropriate.
59.       The Ministry intends to construct three small tunnels in the pro-
ject section Coche--Tejerias by force account at an estimated cost of about
Bs 20 million. This will be the first relatively large-scale construction
work to be undertaken directly by the administration, which has no effective
system of cost accounting at the present time for major works of such a
nature. It has been agreed with the Venezuelan authorities that Bank parti-
cipation in these particular works will depend upon the development of a
satisfactory costing system relating to the tunnel accounts and upon subse-
quent agreement regarding the assessment of foreign currency costs. The
total foreign currency requirement for the tunnel works is not likely to
exceed about US$12 to 2 million.



- 12 -
60.       The diversion and enlarging of water supply conduits in the Caracas
metropolitan area (Coche) will not be financed by the Bank, The works are
the responsibility ef the National Sanitary Institute; engineering studies
are not yet complete but the approximate cost, estimated very roughly at Bs 6
million, has been included in the total project costs for the purpose of cal-
culating economic returns and reviewing financing plans.
61.       The supervision of project construction work will be undertaken by
the Ministry's own specialized staff drawn from the Construction Division of
the Highways Directorate. As present construction contracts are completed,
supervisory staff will become available for new assignments during 1961, but
additional staff will also be required. The necessary provision has been made
for additional personnel in the budget allocations for the current fiscal year,
and the four-year highway plan includes a general provision for future years.
Adequate field and laboratory personnel are employed on the supervision of
present contracts, and the standard of supervision is generally good.
62.       After completion of a construction contract and provisional accep-
tance by the Ministry, the contractor still retains the responsibility for
maintaining the works in good condition and repairing any defects arising
during a period of six months. After final acceptance of the work by the
Ministry, the responsibility for maintenance becomes that of the Maintenance
Directorate of the Ministry through the respective Zone Engineer. The stan-
dard of maintenance of existing autopistas in particular is good.
D. Technical Assistance
63.       The standards of competence and technical ability of the Venezuelan
consultants and Ministerial staff connected with the design, documentation
and supervision of the project, and the present advanced state of project
design and execution, are such as not to require the full-time services of an
outside firm of highway consulting engineers. However, in order to provide
an independent check on the project design and execution, it is considered
desirable that the Ministry employ a suitable firm of outside consultants in
an advisory capacity.
64.       During loan negotiations the Government agreed to retain the ser-
vices of competent consulting engineers, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
purpose of advising upon the project designs and works, including such aspects
as general design methods (involving the checking of present geometric, struc-
tural, pavement and interchange designs, etc.); traffic projections and fore-
casts; specifications for workmanship and materials; construction supervision
and materials testing; cost estimates; and cost accounting in connection with
any proposed force account tunnel work. Detailed terms of reference will be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to the conclusion of any contract for
consulting services.



- 13 -
E. Estimates of Cost
65.       The estimates of costs for construction have been based upon the
unit prices of recent contracts awarded for similar autopista works, and upon
quantities of work estimated originally by the consulting engineers and checked
by the Ministry staff. They have been recently revised and may be regarded
as realistic.
66.       Since parts of the project are already under construction, future
expenditures and financing arrangements must be related to a base date. The
summary table below indicates actual and estimated expenditures on the two
autopista sections prior to and after January 1, 1961.
Actual and Estimated Construction Expenditures
(Bs million)
Prior         January
Jan. 1961      1961-1964       Total
1) Coche - Tejerias:
a)  Existing contract payments       48              27            75
b)  New Contracts                                   204           204
Sub-total                      48             231          279
Construction Contingencies            -              31            31
Total                           8             262          310
2) Valencia - Pto. Cabello:
a)  Existing contract payments        6               7            13
b)  New Contracts                     -             138           138
Sub-total                       6             145           151
Construction Contingencies            -              20            20
Total                           6             162          171
67.       The construction cost estimates for the Coche - Tejerias section
indicated above include Bs 20 million approximately in force account tunnel
works and Bs 6 million in compensatory water supply works referred to in
paragraphs 59 and 60 respectively. Details of the cost estimates for both
autopistas, broken down into individual items, and including estimates for
land acquisition, engineering, supervision and administration are given in
Tables 6.1 and 6.2



- 14 -
68.       A construction contingency allowance of 15% has been included by
the Highway Directorate for works to be executed after 1961. This makes pro-
vision for certain unknown factors, such as possible additions to the works
now contemplated, increased quantities of work, or inflationary trends re-
sulting in higher prices than estimated during the later phases of work.
Previous records of estimates made by the Directorate compared with actual
costs of autopista work indicate that average increases of at least 9% or
10% are to be expected; the allowance of 15% is therefore considered reason-
able.
69.       The total estimated cost/km for the Coche - Tejerias section of
autopista, including all compensatory works and construction contingencies,
is about Bs 5.3 million/km (US$2.5 million/mile). Excluding the cost of
compensatory works and contingencies, the road cost/km would be about Bs 4.0
million/km (US$1.9 million/mile). Similarly, the total estimated cost for
the Valencia - Puerto Cabello section is Bs 4.9 million/km (US$2.3 million/
mile) and the net cost Bs 4.2 million/km (US$2.0 million/mile).
F. Local and Foreign Currency Components of Cost
70.       The foreign currency component of cost in Venezuela is estimated
at 35% for autopista construction in hilly and mountainous terrain similar
to that of the project, and is regarded as reasonable. Table 7 gives a de-
tailed breakdown of costs into local and foreign currency components, prepared
by the Highways Directorate of the Ministry.
71.       The foreign component of highway construction costs in general tends
to be relatively low in Venezuela for the following principal reasons:
a) Gasoline, oil, grease, and most of the construction
materials are of domestic origin.
b) Although there are no restrictions on international
competitive bidding, the presence of a large, well-
equipped and competent force of domestic contractors
has in practice discouraged foreign participation in
construction projects. The administrative charges
and profits of contractors must therefore be considered
for the most part as local currency costs.
G. Annual Investment and Financing
72.       The proposed construction program indicated in Tables 6.1 and 6.2
requires the following total annual capital investment from January 1, 1961
through 1%94:
Project Construction Capital Reauirement Annually
(Bs million)
Calendar Years
1961    1962    1963    1964    Total
ProSect Section
a)  Coche - Tejerias                   30        86     120      26      262
b)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello           12       52      b5      56      165
Total                         L2      138      165     82      427



- 15 -
73.       With Bank participation in financing the project works retroactively
to January 1, 1961, the annual requirements of local currency, assuming 35%
foreign and 65% local currency component, would be approximately as follows:
Project Requirement of Local Currency
(Bs million)
Calendar Years
1961    1962    1963    1964    Total
Proiect Section
a)  Goche - Tejerias                     19      56       78      17      170
b)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello             8      34       29      36      107
Total                          27      90       107     53       277
74.       The tentative allocations to the project in the Government's four-
year development program indicated a slight deficiency of funds to meet total
local currency requirements of the project. However, the Government has given
assurances that more realistic annual budget appropriations will be applied to
the project.
75.       Other aspects of local currency financing which have been adequately
covered during loan negotiations concern land acquisition costs and supervisory
costs. General amounts were provided for such purposes in the four-year highway
plan, but no specific allocations were made to the project; the Government will
now undertake to make available all funds and other resources necessary for
execution of the project. The estimated calendar year allocations required
for these items are as follows:
Project Land Acquisition Estimates
(Bs million)
1961    1962    1963    1964    Total
a)  Coche - Tejerias                       -      3.0     3.0       -       6.0
b)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello             1.2              8.4     8.4     18.0
Total                           1.2      3.0    11.4              24.0
Project Engineering, Supervision
and Administration Estimates
(Bs million)
1961    1962    1963    1964    Total
a)  Coche - Tejerias                      3.0     3.4     3.4      3.4     13.2
b)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello             2.6     2.3     1.9      2.4      9.2
Total                           5.6      5.7     5.3     5.8      22.4



- 16 -
H.  Composition of Bank Loan and Disbursement Flow
76.       The loan recommended is one applied retroactively to expenditures
from January 1, 1961, provisionally excluding from direct Bank participation
the tunnel works by force account referred to in paragraph 59 and wholly ex-
cluding the water supply works referred to in paragraph 60.
77.       On the basis of such a project, a summary of the estimated costs
and the amount of Bank participation would be as follows:
Components of Recommended Loan
Total Cost          Foreign
from Jan. 1/61       Component
(Bs million)          million)
1) Construction by Contract
a)  Coche - Tejerias                          237
b)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello                 165
402  @  35%  =     42.0
2)  Consulting Services                                                  1.0
3)  Additional Contingencies                                             2.0
Total Amount of Loan             45-°
78.       Item (3) above, "Additional Contingencies", is intended primarily
to meet any deficiencies in the cost estimates for consulting services, or
in the construction cost estimates over and above the allowance of 15% already
included for work after 1961.
79.       The construction costs in item (1) exclude the amounts of Bs 20
million for force account tunnel works and Bs 6 million for water supply
diversion, but al]rwance is made for the provisional inclusion of the tunnel
works under item (3). Provided satisfactory procedures regarding design,
execution, accounting and assessment of foreign currency cost compcnent are
subsequently agreed for all or part of the tunnel works, disbursements to
cover some of the agreed foreign costs could be made to the limit of funds
remaining in the Additional Contingency item.
80.       The probable annual rate of disbursement from loan funds would be:
Probable Disbursement Flow
($ million)
1961    1962    1963    1964    Total
1)  Construction                   3.7    13.8    16.2      8.3     42.0
2)  Consulting Services            0.3     0.3     0.2      0.2      1.0
3)  Contingencies                   -      0.4     o.6      1.0      2.0
Total                       4.0    14.5    17.0       9.5     4540
Cumulative Total             4.     18.5    35.5    45.0



- 17 -
V. TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF PROJECT
A. Areas directly affected
81.       The principal element in the Venezuelan economy aside from petroleum
is the manufacturing industry which accounts for almost 12% of the gross domes-
tic product, and which comprises, for the most part, a modern industrial sector
expanding until recently at the rate of some 14% per annum.
82.       The bulk of the industry is presently located in the north-central
region of the country around Caracas and Valencia within the immediate service
areas of the two project autopistas. Because of the near saturation in the
Caracas area, the Government is encouraging dispersion and the development of
future industry away from Caracas, principally in the areas of Valencia,
Maracay, Puerto Cabello, Mloron, Barquisimeto, Maracaibo, Barcelona, and the
Orinoco. The project roads will link a major part of these areas of high in-
dustrial potential (see Map 3) and will provide high speed, high capacity
alternative routes to the existing badly congested trunk highways which are
themselves difficult and costly to improve to standards adequate for antici-
pated future traffic volumes. The three States and the Federal District which
will be connected by autopista upon completion of the project, contain about
one third of the total population; vehicle registrations in these areas are
between 50% - 60% of the totals for the country, and are increasing at a higher
rate than the present general average of 8% - 9%.
83.       The 59 km Coche - Tejerias section of autopista will complete a
160 kn high speed link between Caracas and Valencia, thus affording a better
realization of the previous investment in the existing Tejerias - Valencia
autopista section. The alternative means of transportation for freight and
passengers between Caracas and Valencia are the existing congested roads or
the Government-owned railroad. Records indicate, however, that the railroad
facility cannot compete with the present freight and passenger rates by road
transport over the relatively short distances involved, nor is it adequate to
carry the substantial amount of traffic expected in this region. The Caracas -
Tejerais - Valencia railroad showed a deficit of Bs 3.6 million during 1958
alone, while during 1954-58, notwithstanding the increased industrial and resi-
dential development of the area, there was a drop in freight hauled from an
annual level of 9 million to 8 million ton/km, and in passengers carried from
11.3 million to 5.2 million passengers/km.
84.       About 25 km south of Caracas, in the vicinity of Charallave, the
Government is planning a new urban development project with related industrial
Zones; the initial program contemplates the settlement of an additional 35,00G
persons in the area. This development scheme will be connected to the project
interchange at Cortada de Maturin, and will contribute to future traffic on
the Coche - Tejerias section of autopista.
85.       Puerto Cabello is the second largest port in Venezuela; the improved
link with Valencia by project autopista will enable the port to serve its large
hinterland more efficiently and should make possible an extension of its ser-
vice area to include Maracay and possibly even Caracas. Major urban and indus-
trial expansion schemes are proposed in the vicinities of Valencia and Maracay
(see Map 3) which should result in a high future generation of development
traffic on the project autopista in addition to normal traffic growth.



- 18 -
B. Technical Justification
86.       A consideration of the principal geometric characteristics of the
existing and proposed highway facilities enables an assessment to be made of
their respective capacities to carry the present and probable future traffic
volumes and indicates to what extent the circumstances justify the construction
of high-standard multiple-lane highways in the Caracas - Valencia - Puerto
Cabello area.
87.       Such an assessment has been made in Appendix 1, from which it will
be seen that the existing roads to which the project autopistas would provide
alternative routes are even now carrying traffic volumes higher than their
estimated practical limits.
88.       The construction and opening of the project autopistas will not
only provide adequate means of transportation in the area for the next 20
years approximately, but will relieve congestion on the existing roads and
allow them to operate at below their estimated traffic capacities for some
years hence.
C. Direct Economic Returns
89.       A comparison of road user costs on old and new facilities provides
a quantitative measure of one of the major benefits accruing to the national
economy due to construction of the project autopistas. The average vehicle
operating cost for the country has been deduced in Appendix 2, and the annual
savings in operating costs on the new autopistas, assuming certain traffic
projections have been estimated in Appendix 3.
90.       Applying a discounted investment-return technique, the total present
value of net annual benefits over an assumed economic life of about 35 years
may be compared with capital investments to give an impression of the long-
term economic return of the project. These results have been tabulated in
Tables 12 and 13. There are naturally certain limitations in accuracy when
applying such a method of economic appraisal to a highway project with its
inherent uncertainties in traffic projections and in road user savings. With
the rather conservative assumptions made, both autopista sections indicate an
internal rate of return from road user savings alone of about 8% over their
economic lives.
91.       In Appendix 3, net road user benefits for selected years have been
assessed and expressed as percentage returns on the initial capital invest-
ment in each section of autopista. The growth of these returns during the
early life of the project is indicated in the following tabulation:
Net Road User Benefits as % Capital Investment
1965*     1970      1975     1980
Coche - Tejerias                5.7        7.7      9.4      10.1
Valencia - Puerto Cabello       4.8        7.0      8.8      10.1
* First year of operation.



- 19 -
D. Additional Benefits and Toll Revenues
92.       The construction of the project autopistas will result in benefits
additional to the direct economic returns discussed in the previous section,
not all of which are capable of assessment easily in quantitative form, but
which nonetheless are of material importance to road users, property owners,
and to the national economy in general.
93.       The easier and quicker travel facilities to areas in proximity to
both old and new roads will not only provide incentive to further development
of existing industry in the area, but should encourage industrial and resi-
dential dispersion in areas outside Caracas in accordance with Government
policy. Moreover, although agricultural land within the zone of influence
of the project roads is fairly well developed, the assurance of fast transport
facilities should induce agricultural intensification or changes in crop
patterns resulting in increased production. The reflection in increased land
and property values will in turn yield increased revenues from local taxes.
94.       La Guaira and Puerto Cabello are the two major seaports serving
the North-Central region of the country with its concentration of population
and industry. Puerto Cabello has a natural harbor and good port facilities
with the possibility of relatively low cost expansion, but nevertheless has
the greatest unused capacity of the three principal Venezuelan ports. This
is partly attributable to the inadequacy of present transport connections
with the hinterland. The improved link by project road with Valencia and
with the autopista to Maracay and Caracas should enable the port to extend
its service area and utilize the full capacity of its port facilities. The
improved situation should result in lower land haul charges for goods shipped
through Puerto Cabello after completion of the project, and may lead to di-
version of some of the goods which now pass through La Guaira, thus relieving
part of the congestion due to heavy traffic moving through Caracas.
95.       Further benefits will result from the probable decrease in accident
and fatality rates on the existing roads due to the relief of traffic con-
gestion when the new facilities come into operation. It is common modern
practice in studies of similar highway projects to assess the value of such
benefits to the community in monetary terms and to take this into account
when considering the merits and economic benefits of constructing new highways.
96.       Smaller personal benefits, incapable of assessment but important
from their social and psychological nature, will result from the improved
convenience and comfort to drivers and passengers by reason of a greater
freedom of vehicle operation compared with the present badly congested travel
conditions.
97.       The Government of Venezuela does not regard toll autopistas as
being self-liquidating investments but merely as sources of additional na-
tional revenue. Fiscal calculations therefore become somewhat academic but,
as a matter of interest, a study has been made in Appendix 4 to determine the
relationship between the anticipated flow of toll revenues and the capital
investment in the project.



- 20 -
98.       In 1965,the first year of operation, gross revenues from toll
charges on the Coche - Tejerias autopista section are estimated to be about
3   of the initial capital investment, and on the Valencia - Puerto Cabello
section about 4%. In 1975, the corresponding figures are estimated at about
51% and 6J% respectively.
99.       Total gross toll revenues from the two project autopista sections
would supplement national treasury funds by about Bs 22 million in the first
year of operation and by about Bs 35 million in the tenth year.
100.      Further revenues to national funds will accrue from traffic genera-
ted by the project autopistas; that is from the additional number of vehicles
over and above the normal growth which the public are induced to purchase by
reason of the existence of a new improved transport facility, and which other-
wise would not have been added to the vehicle population. National revenues
will be augmented by fees from such vehicles for import, registration, local
taxes, gasoline taxes, etc.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECO1SENDATIONS
101.      The project comprising both sections of autopista appears to be
technically sound and well engineered. It will yield a reasonable economic
return on investment principally by savings in road user costs.
102.      The contract procedures and methods proposed for the execution and
construction of the project are satisfactory and accord with normal Bank
policy in these respects. The highway maintenance department of the Ministry
of Public Works is sufficiently experienced and competent and may be expected
to provide satisfactory future maintenance of the project roads.
103.      The Government has agreed to retain a consulting engineering firm,
satisfactory to the Bank and employed upon terms of reference approved by
the Bank, in an advisory capacity to review the project designs and speci-
fications and to advise generally on supervision and materials testing.
104.      Estimates of construction costs and of the foreign currency compon-
ent are realistic. The Government will make available by means of annual
budget appropriations the necessary funds to cover local currency costs of
the project; loan funds will make up the remaining costs.



- 21 -
105.      A Bank loan of US$45 million equivalent is recommended applied
retroactively to project expenditures from January 1, 1961 and comprising
the following items:
Total cost           Foreign
from Jan. 1/61        Component
(Bs million)       ($ million)
1) Construction bv Contract
a)  Coche - Tejerias autopista              237
b)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello autopista   165
402  @  35%  =    42.0
2)  Consulting Services                                               1.0
3)  Additional Contingencies                                          2.0
Total Loan                                                 05.0
106.      Some clarification regarding foreign cost data and procurement
procedures for associated tunnel works by force account (amounting to about
5% of the total project costs) will be required before disbursing loan funds
against expenditures on these works. Disbursements will only be made, to the
extent of funds remaining in the "Additional Contingency" item, for those
foreign currency costs applicable to the tunnel works which are subsequently
agreed by the Bank during the course of construction.
107.      The financing and technical aspects of the project, which were dis-
cussed and agreed with the Venezuelan authorities during loan negotiations,
are suimmarized below:
a) The Government to make promptly available the funds and
other resources for execution of the project.
b) The list of goods to which the loan withdrawal percentage of
35% of total cost will be applicable, and the conditions for
disbursing against force account tunnel works.
c) A confirmation of the design standards adopted in connection
with the project.
d) Construction contracts to be open to international competitive
bidding and the Bank to be given the opportunity to comment
upon the documentation and proposed award of bid; contracts
to be of a size large enough to interest foreign construction
firms, and to incorporate minor works into one main contract
to the extent possible.



- 22 -
e) The Government to cause such access or approach road
facilities outside the Bank-financed project to be
constructed or improved so as to adequately serve the
project roads and help realize its full benefits.
f) The Government to retain the services of competent
consulting engineers acceptable to the Bank and to
an extent and upon terms of reference approved by the
Bank.
108.      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$45
million equivalent to the Government of Venezuela; a suitable term would be
20 years including a period of grace of four years.
August 25, 1961



TECHNICAL JUSTIFICATIOUJ
The following levels of hourly and daily traffic volumes (in both
directions) have been recorded at intervals after October 1959 on the existing
roads to which the project autopistas shown will provide alternative routes:
1. Coche - Tejerias Autopista:
Mean of Highest
Existing Routes          Hourly Volumes            Daily Volumes
(v.p.h.)                 (v.p.d.)
a)  Coche - Los Teques             1,150               13,000 - 14,000
b)  Los Teques - Tejerias            850                9,000 - 10,000
c)  Coche - Charallave               300                3,500 -  40ooo
2. Valencia - Puerto Cabello Autopista:
Existing Routes
a)  Valencia - Naguanagua            800                9,000 - 10,000
b)  Naguanagua - El Palito           550                5,000 -  6,ooo
Highway capacity considerations are usually based upon hourly traffic
volumes.  Records of traffic data in Venezuela are not yet sufficiently complete
to enable the thirtieth or other peak hourly volume to be determined as a basis
for design. The hourly volumes indicated above are the average of a number of
maximum values for different days and may be regarded as sufficiently repre-
sentative for use in assessing the present and future vehicle capacity require-
ment s.
The average traffic growth for the whole country has been estimated
at about 8% to 9% for 1960 (see Fig. 3). The future growrth rate in the Coche -
Tejerias area may be expected to follow normal trends, while that in the
Valencia - Puerto Cabello area wTill conceivably be higher than normal due
to the extensive urban and industrial development proposed. The following
traffic growth rates have been assumed when considering the technical and
economic aspects of the project; the resulting projected traffic volumes are
conservative when compared with those estimated by the Highways Directorate
of the M1inistry:
ASSUMED TRAFFIC GROWTH RATES
% Average for periods indicated:
1960-65 (*)  1965-70  1970-75  1975-90  1990-2000
1)  Coche - Tejerias            7%           5%        4%       212       2%
2)  Valencia - Pto. Cabello  10%             6%        4'z%     30%,      2%
(*)  In 1965, after completion of the autopistas in both areas, an additional
first year increment of 5% has been allowed for traffic generated by
the improved facilities.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
In Table 11, an estimation has been made of the practical or design
traffic volume capacities of the principal existing and proposed roads relating
to the project. Practical or design capacity may be defined as the maximum
number of vehicles capable of passing over a facility in one hour wit.hout un-
reasonable delay or restriction in operation. Above this limit of traffic
volume, interference with normal vehicle operation occurs and increases with
increasing traffic volume, until at about twice this capacity, traffic density
is so high that serious congestion may result. The results of the analysis for
the existing roads, which are summarized below, indicate the extent to which
these roads are presently congested, and how this condition will be furt.her
aggravated in 1965:
Maximum Hourly Traffic Volumes
Estimated        Estimated
1960 Volume   1965 Volume   Practical Capacity
1.  a)  Coche - Los Teques           1,150              *               700
b)  Los Teques - Tejerias          850          1$200               700
c)  Coche - Charallave             300            430        Not determined
* indeterminate; an alternative
route is available.
2.  Valencia - El Pallto               550            900               420
(south of Naguanagua)
It is apparent therefore that, some steps must be taken within the
near future either to improve substantially the capacity of the existing facil-
ities or to provide alternative facilities. The geometric alignments of the
existing facilities do not lend themselves to a practicable improvement to
sufficiently high standards for the expected traffic volumes. The construction
of a new alternative facility must therefore be considered.
Traffic records before and after the construction of existing auto-
pistas indicate that from 75% to 85% of the through traffic volume on the old
road will choose to use the new autopista, and the remainder will stay on the
old road. Taking into account the likely contributions of traffic to the proj-
ect autopistas from all existing roads, and assuming that 75% of the former
through traffic volume will use the Coche - Tejerias autopista and 80% the
Valencia - Puerto Cabello autopista, the anticipated growth of traffic on these
autopistas and their capacities for handling such volumes is indicated in the
table below. There is a short special section of the Valencia - Pto. Cabello
autopista which must carry 100% of the traffic volume since the old and new
roads coincide over this section.
Estimated Hourly Traffic Volumes
1965       1975        1985   Practical or Design
Autopista                  Volume     Volume      Volume       Capacity
1.  Coche - Tejerias             1,200       1,850      2,W00         2,300
2. Valencia - Pto. Cabello         750       1,250      1,750         1,700
Special section                950      1,600       2,200



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
The relief afforded the old roads in and after 1965 by the diversion
of traffic to the new autopistas may be seen below:
Estimated Hourly Traffic Volumes
1960     1965    1965(*)   1975   Practical
a)  Coche - Los Teques        1,150       -     (reduced, but        700
indeterminate)
b)  Los Teques - Tejerias       850    1,200      300        500     700
c)  Coche - Charallave          300      430      200       not determined
d)  Valencia - El Palito        550       900     180        350     420
(*)  after opening of the alternative autopista route.
In conclusion, therefore, it is apparent that the construction of
high-type multilane highways is technically justified in the Caracas, Valencia
and Pto. Cabello areas in order to handle the expected future traffic volumes.
The proposed new facilities appear to be capable of providing wholly adequate
traffic capacities for about 20 years after completion; provisions for a future
widening in certain sections of the Valencia - El Palito autopista appear to
be justified.



APP,ThDIX 2
DERIVIATION AND ANALYSIS OF AVERAGE TRUCK AND CAR OPERATING COSTS
When considering vehicle operating costs on any highway facility,
it is convenient to draw a broad distinction between passenger cars on the
one hand, and trucks and buses on the other.  In IVenezuela, the lack of ap-
propriate data makes it difficult to deduce car operating costs directly;
such costs, however, may be related roughly to truck operating costs for
which some data is available from major trucking concerns.
A study made in 1959 of the freight rates of different trucking
firms for short and long distance haul mainly over paved roads between towns
of relative importance in Venezuela indicates that the cost level of truck-
ing is around 15 centimos per ton/km. Included in this cost is an allowance
of about 1% for owner's profit, with the net truck operating costs and small
overheads amounting to around 13.5 to 14 centimos per ton/km. A typical
breakdown of such costs is given in Table 8, which is based upon data sup-
plied by a large trucking firm; it will be noted that fuel and oil costs
account for a relatively small proportion of the total operating cost and
that the most significant costs are those of tires, vehicle depreciation and
drivers' wages. The wage costs and part of the vehicle depreciation costs
bear a direct relationship to the time, and therefore to the average speed,
of the hauling operation. Any improvement in average speed will consequently
result in a relatively substantial reduction in truck operating costs which
should eventually reflect in reduced freight haul charges.
Applying a net truck operating rate of about 13.5 centimos per
ton/km to the 6-ton equivalent payload of an average truck as deduced in
Table 9, we obtain an average truck operating cost of about 80 centimos
(US¢24) per vehicle/km for the whole country (mainly over paved roads).
This figure agrees reasonably with vehicle operating costs derived from recent
US publications and adjusted for Venezuelan conditions.   Using a factor of
about 3 for the relationship between the equivalent truck and car operating
costs, the average cost of passenger car operation will be around 27 centimos
(US08) per vehicle/km. This figure has been used in this report as the basis
of an assessment of the economic benefits accruing from savings in vehicle
operating costs on improved highway facilities.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF DIRECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Not all direct economic benefits accruing from the construction of
the new highways can be expressed in terms of monetary units. For instance,
the impact of the new highways on the industrial development due to the better
access to ports and consumption centers will be very large. A growth in agri-
cultural productivity may also result in the form of a more intensive culti-
vation or changes in crop patterns from low yielding to high yielding crops
such as perishable vegetables which can be delivered quickly to their desti-
nations over the new highways. Such benefits are difficult to quantify.
This appendix is confined to a study merely of the road-user
savings which are only a part of the total direct economic benefits attribut-
able to the new highways. The road-user savings have been compared to the
total capital expenditures using the discounted investment-return or cash-
flow technique.  This technique consists essentially in a determination of
the rate of discount which will make the present value of the flow of direct
benefits during the life of the investment equal the present value of the
flow of capital expenditure. The rate of discount, or "the internal rate
of return", obtained by this method of calculation will show the net yield
of a project over its entire estimated life, after provision for repayment
of the capital invested. While this method of investment analysis was
originally developed by corporate financial analysts for determining
financial merits of investment proposals, a resort to this technique
for an economic analysis of non-profit public investments can prove
equally useful.
The capital used is the same as that used in calculating the
present worth of an annuity. A stream of estimated cash outflows and inflows
for the project is computed from which the net cash inflow or outflow is
obtained. In the present case of the Venezuelan highway project the invest-
ment outlays, maintenance and other operating costs are shown as outflows
and the road-user benefits accruing during the highway's estimated economic
life of about 35 years are shown as inflows. By trial and error, a rate of
discount may be found which equates-the present value of the inflows with
that of the outflows. Tables 12 and 13 summarize the method of calculation
and they show that the rates of return for both Coche-Tejerias and Valen-
ciaPuerto Cabello autopistas are abcut 8 percent. This suggests that, if the
Government can borrow funds for highway construction at a rate lower than
8 percent per annum, or other public investment programs do not yield rates
of return higher than 8 percent, the investment in the present highway project
may be regarded as justified or as having a priority.
Explanations of the method of derivation of the individual items
in Tables 12 and 13 are given below:
a) Investment in Highway Construction and Resurfacing
The annual expenditures on highway construction have been listed
in Tables 6.1 and 6.2. For the Coche-Tejerias section, however, some
slight modification in capital cost has been made for economic appraisal



APPENDIX 3
Page 2.
purposes. This concerns the compensatory works to be carried out in connection
with the highway construction.  A part of the benefits from these works can
be attributed to public facilities other than the proposed highway. It has
therefore been assumed that only one half of the cost of compensatory works
should justifiably be assigned to the highway construction. In the case of
Valencia - Puerto Cabello highway no such complication arises and the total
cost of compensatory works has been included in the highway cost.
For both highways the 1961 investment figures indicated in column
(1) of Tables 12 and 13 include expenditures prior to January 1961 with 6
percent interest per annum.
Since the estimated life of pavement has been taken to be 20 years,
a capital expenditure for renewal at a cost of 70 percent of the original
cost of pavement has been considered necessary in the year, 1985.
b) Maintenance and Other Current Costs
The current outlays indicated in column (2) include allowances for
slide clearance, maintenance cost and toll house operating cost.  It is assumed
that slide clearance will be required only during the first few years and that
maintenance and toll operating costs will increase as volumes of traffic in-
crease and conditions of roads deteriorate. The figures are based on infor-
mation supplied by the Venezuelan Government and the independent investigations
of the Bank mission. A breakdown of these figures for selected years is indi-
cated below:
ESTIMATED CURBENT COSTS
Cost for   Maintenance    Operating    Total
Slide        Cost            Cost
Clearance
(Thousand Bolivares Annually)
Coche - Tejerias
1965             1,000          2,400         0,800       4,200
1970             0,500          2,600         1,000      4b,100
1975               -            2,800         1,200      4&,O00
1985               _            2,600         1,300       3,900
1995               -            3,000         l,400       4,400
2000               _            3,000         1,400       4,400
Valencia - Puerto Cabello
1965             0,50O          1,500         1,000       3,000
1970               -            1,600         1,200       2,800
1975                -           1,700         1,400       3,100
1985                            1,600         1,500       3,100
1995                            1,800         1,600       3,400
2000               _            1,800         1,600       3,400



APPENDIX 3
Page 3.
c) Road-User Benefits
The road-user benefits include the benefits accruing from the new
highways as well as the existing highways due to less congested traffic with
the opening of the former.
(i) Road-User Benefits From New Highways
The road-user benefits from the new highways (B) has been calculated
by using the following formula:
B - V*P CqD                            Where:
V is the average daily volume of traffic in car equivalent;
P is the percentage reduction in car operating cost on the
new facility compared to the old facility;
C is the car operating cost per km on the existing road; and
D is the distance in kilometers over the new highway.
In order to obtain the annual road-user benefit, the above products
are multiplied by 365, the number of days in a year.
The average daily volumes of traffic (V) has been estimated on the basis
of actual tfxaffic counts and on information regarding diversion of traffic from
the old road to the recently opened section of the Valencia - Tejerias highway.
The following figures are considered to represent that portion of the 1960
average daily traffic on the existing roads which would choose to usean alter-
native new facility if available:
Coche - Tejerias Autopista
a) Coche - Cortada de Maturin         9,000 vehicles
b) Cortada de Maturin - Tejerias    7,000    "
Valencia - Puerto Cabello Autopista 4,200    "
Using the rates of traffic increase and of traffic generated due
to new construction as presented in Appendix 1, the following projected
volumes of future traffic are obtained:



APPENDIX 3
Page 4.
PROJECTIOINS OF AVERAGE DAILY T1RAFFIC
(All Vehicles)
Coche - Cortada    Cortada de IMaturin-    Valencia - Puerto
de Maturin            Tejerias                Cabello
1960          9,000                 7,000                 4,200
1965         13,400                10,500                 7,000
1970         17,300                13,500                 9,500
1975         21,000                16,000                12,000
1990         30,500                23,800                19,500
2000         36,400                28,800                24.,500
The composition of traffic between passenger cars, and trucks and
buses in Coche - Tejerias and Valencia - Puerto Cabello areas has been found
to be in the ratios of about 75:25 and 65:35 respectively. Using passenger
cars as a basis for calculation, the projected volumes of traffic may be con-
verted into passenger car equivalents, assuming 1 truck equivalent to 3 cars,
as follows:
PROJECTIONS OF AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
(In passenger car equivalent)
Coche - Cortada    Cortada de MNaturin-     Valencia - Puerto
de Maturin            Tejerias                Cabello
1960           13,500              10,500                  7,140
1965           20,100              15,750                 11,900
1970           25,950              20,250                 16,150
1975           31,500              24,450                 20,400
1990           45,750              35,700                 33,150
2000           55,250              43,200                 41,650
For the purpose of obtaining annual road-user savings the traffic
figures in the intervening years have been determined by interpolation.
The percentage reduction in car operating cost (P) has been obtained
by comparing the relative condition of running speed, grades, curvature, sur-
face, freedom of operation and time saved on the new autopistas compared with
old roads using the procedure recommended by "Road User Benefit Analysis for
Highway Improvements, 1960" AASHO. They are found to be about 20% for Coche -
Cortada de Maturin, 22% for Cortada de Maturin - Tejerias and about 29r for
Valencia - Puerto Cabello. These percentages include an allowance for the
different distances traveled over old and new facilities.
The car operating costs on the existing roads (C) have been deter-
mined by modifying the average car operating cost of 27 centimos per km
throughout the country (as determined in Appendix 2) in accordance with the
relative conditions on the particular road in question. Comparing the present
conditions of gradient and curvature on the existing road from Coche - Tejerias
with the average for the country, it is reasonable to increase the average



APPENDIX 3
Page 5.
operating cost by about 14%, making roughly 31 centimos per km for operating
costs on the present facility. A similar procedure has been applied to the
Valencia - Puerto Cabello section.
(ii) Benefits from Existing Roads
A further benefit would arise to the economy from slight reductions
in operating costs of vehicles continuing to use the old roads by reason of
a less restricted type of operation and a higher average running speed as
compared to those at present. The following figures have been determined on
the basis of an assumed rate of saving of 8% on the present operating costs
for traffic remaining on the roads up to 1975. After that time, increasing
traffic with resulting congestion and increased maintenance costs will prob-
ably nullify any road-user benefit on the old roads.
ESTIKIATED ANNU.AL BENEFITS TO OLD ROAD-USERS
(Million Bolivares)
Coche - Tejerias         Valencia Puerto Cabello
1965-69                2.4                           1.1
1970-75                2.9                           1.4
1975-                   0                             0
PERCENTAGE RETURN ON ORIGINAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT
For any year the net benefits may be expressed as a percentage
return on the original capital investment including interest during construc-
tion. The capital costs for the two autopistas may be expressed as follows:
Coche - Tejerias   Valencia - Pto. Cabello
(Million Bolivares)
Construction and Land Costs         295.9*               189.5**
Administrative Overhead              19.8                 14.1
6% Interest during Construction      48.8                 21.7
Total Capital Cost           364.5                225.3
* including 50 percent of the cost of compensatory works.
** including 100 percent of the cost of compensatory works.
For selected years the net-benefits from Column (4) of Tables 12
and 13 and their percentages of the original capital investment are:



APPENDIX 3
Page 6.
Coche - Tejerias          Net Benefits     Percentage of Original
(Bs ilillion)    Capital Investment
1965                     20.9                  5.7
1970                     28.0                  7.7
1975                     34.2                  9.4
1980                     36.7                 10.1
Valencia - Pto. Cabello
1965                     10.7                  4.8
1970                     15.7                  7.0
1975                     19.8                  8.8
1980                     22.8                 10.1



APPENDIX 4
ASSESSMENT OF TOLL REVENUES
The Government of Venezuela does not consider toll highways to
be self-liquidating; the toll revenues are merely regarded as additional
sources of the Government's income.
No decision has yet been taken by the Venezuelan authorities re-
garding tolls to be levied on the new autopistas although they propose
following a similar system to the level of charges at present made on the
Tejerias-Valencia autopista.  From a study of the toll charges on this
and other autopistas (see Table 10), and from a comparison of the alter-
native routes available, it is reasonable to assume the following probable
toll charges on the new facilities:
PROBABLE RATES OF TOLL CHARGES
Length    Traffic    Toll Charges
Section                         in km      Class     per Vehicle
Bs
1)  Coche - Cortada de Maturin, only         24       Cars          1.00
Trucks        3.00
2)  Coche - Cortada de Maturin - Tejerias   59        Cars          2.00
Trucks        6.oo
3)  Valencia - Puerto Cabello                35       Cars          2.00
Trucks        6.00*
x When considering the probable level of toll charges on the
autopista from Valencia to Puerto Cabello, we may draw a better
comparison with the Caracas to La Guaira autopista than with
that from Tejerias to Valencia.  Therefore, referring to Table 10,
toll charges of Bs 2 per car and Bs 6 per medium truck have
been assumed as reasonable for this section.
On the basis of the traffic projections presented on page 4 of
Appendix 3, the gross toll revenue from the new highways for selected years
and the % return on total capital costs would be as follows:
Coche - Tejerias          Valencia - Puerto Cabello
Toll Revenue   , of Original   Toll Revenue   / of Original
Bs Million    Investment        Bs Million    Investment
1965           13.1            3.6               8.7           3.9
1970           16.9            4.6             11.8            5.2
1975           20.4            5.6             1h.9            6.6
1980           23.6            6.5             18.0            8.0



TAPL.'S 1 and 2
Table 1:                 Domestic Freight Movements
by Various Transoortation Facilities
COASTAL & INLUND
HIGHWrEAY (*)            RAIL               WATERWAYS                 AIR
Year        ton   ton.km           ton   ton.k'v         t. n-I  ton.km         ton   ton.km
(000) (000,000)       (000) (Cu1,C00)        (OOu) (000,000)        (000) (000,000)
1950         -       -                      -            350       -            ic.L      -
195L         -     3,000          163      11.1          367       -            ?9.7
1956         -       -              -       -             290      -             -        -
1958    16,000    4,800             87     iC.d          1h5       -            34.2      15
(*) Mission Estimate
Table 2:                 Domestic Passenger Movements
by Various Transportation Facilities
HIGHWAY (*)                  RAIL                         AIR
Year           Pass.   Pass.km             Pass.   Pass.km             Pass.   Pass.krm
(000)  (000,000)            (000)  (000,000)            (000)  (ooo,ooo)
1950             -         -                588        -                656
195h             -      3,500               292       12.8               6h5
1956             -         -                 -         -                  -
1958             -      6,500               108        6.L!              789      350
(*) Tission '4'stimate
Source:  Division de Planificacion v Coorcinacion, M. -7.



TABLE 3
RECORD OF VEHICLE REGISTRATION, 1948-58
Annual Car                                   Buses         Annual Total
Increment                                  and Trucks    Vehicle Increment
Year          Cars        %         Buses    Trucks    Total   as % Total               %
1948        140,620                 3,248    41,814     85,682        53
38                                                          141
19149        55,995                 4,565    60,451    121,011        53
25                                                          12
1950 (*1)   69,602                  5,019    60,922    135,543        49
7                                                           0
1951 (*1)    74,130                 3,871    58,o53    136,054        45
27                                                          20
1952         93,823                 4,366    64,877    163,066        42
20                                                          19
1953        112,775                 5,389    76,182    194,346        42
13                                                          114
1954        127,608                 5,372    87,173    220,153         41
15                                                          11
1955        146,207                 7,298    90,348    243,853         40
9                                                           2
1956        159,712                 6,5146    81,981    248,239       35
14                                                         -1
1957 (*2)  165,068                  5,616    74,377    245,061         32
13                                                          12
1958         186,039                5,828    83,258    275,125        32
E,stimated Car                                                 Estimated Total
Increment 1960 (*3)         9%                           Vehicle Increment 1960 (*3)  8%-9%
Source:   Direccion de Estadisticas, Ministerio de Fomento,
Notes:   (*1)  Military Junta in power; records perhaps doubtful.
(*2)   Some records for this year mislaid during Revolution of 1958.
(*3)  Deduced from graph of Figure 3.



TABLE 4
GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARDS
(dimensions in meters)
C L A SS   OF   R O A D S
AUTOPISTAS (*1)          A          B            C             D
- "modihied"
Lane Width                          3.65          3.65(inner)    3.65         3.35          3.0
3.35(outer)
Carriageway                    2 @ 2 or 3 lane       14.0         7.3         6.7           6.o
Shoulder                            2.5               1.85        1.25          -
Extra shoulder width
(feathered base material)         1.0               0.9        1.05         0.9           0.6
Right-of-way                        100               60           60          60           30
Surface type (*2)              concrete or a/c        a/c         a/c    a/c or gravel  gravel
Camber                              2%                2%          2%          2%            4%
Minimum Design speed: a(*3)         120              100           80          60           50
b            80               50           40         30            25
Minimum radius       : a             500             300          200         100           70
) b          210               75           50         30            20
(as AASHO)
Maximum gradient    :recommended   3%                 5%          5%           6%           7%
:absolute   7% (short)        8%(250m)    8%(250m)    9%(300m)    12%(200m)
(as AASHO)
Minimum stopping
sight distance    : a             220              160          110         75            60
: b            110               60           45         30            25
(*1):  With controlled access and grade separation
(*2): "a/c" = asphalt concrete
(*3): a - for level terrain
b = for mountainous terrain.



M.O.P. HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION INVESTi{NTS FOR PERIOD 1954-61
(Bs million)
Total for
Main        Major                  Contract                      Highways
Year        Studies   Construction   Bridges   Paving   Reconstruction   Inspection   Directorate
1954-55         5.1         191.8          34.8      76.8                           -           308.5
1955-56        10.5         187.8          40.0      84.6                           -            322.9
1956-57          9.6        285.2          65.7      48.3           -              10.2         419.0
1957-58         24.6        405.9         109.4      53.3          12.6            15.3         621.1
1958-59         12.0        355.1         105.3      47.4          27.4            13.7          560.9
1959-60 (*)    17.2         349.0          20.6      58.4          12.2            14.0          471.4
1960-61 (*)    17.8         160.6          18.7      38.5          35.7            15.0          286.3
Average : 426/annum
(*)   Budget Allocations



DETAILS OF ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES
1. COCHE - TEJERIAS AUTOPISTA
(Bs million)
Up to:     From:                                     Grand     Total
Ret.        Item                 7/1960   7/1960-1/1961   1961   1962   1963   1964   Total   from 1/1961
1   Earthviorks                  28.4         5.3        15.8  21.0  21.0       -     91.5      57.8
2   Drainage                      2.9         0.5         1.6    1.9    1.8     -      8.7       5.3
3  Bridges                       o.6          1.3         2.9    8.5    8.1     -     21.4      19.5
4   Tunnels                       1.2         1.2         6.2    5.3    5.2     -    19.1       16.7
5   Paving                         -           -           -      -    30.0  12.6   42.6        42.6
6   Interchanges                   _           _           -    18.1  18.1      -     36.2      36.2
7   Toll Stations                  _-                                    -     3.3     3.3       3,3
8   Miscellaneous JYorks          0.4         0.5         1.1    0.1     -    6.8      8.9       8.0
9   Compensatory ;,orks           3.4         2.0         2.0  20.0  20.0       -    47.4       42.0
10   Sub-total                    36.9        10.8        29.6  74.9  104.2  22.7  279.1    231.4
11  15%6 Construction
Contingencies after 1961       -          -            -   11.5  16.0    3.4   30.9         30.9
12   TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS     36.9        10.8        29.6  86.4  120.2  26.1  310.0    262.3
13   Land Acquisition              1.5         2.1          -     3.0    3.0     -      9.6
14   Engineering, Supervision
and Administration: Local     3.2         1.2         3.0    3.4    3.4    3.4   17.6       -
Foreign    -           -          o.6    o.6    0.5    0.5     2.2
15   TOTAL COSTS                  41.6        14.1        33.2  93.4  127.1  30.0  339.4
16   Payments made to
Contractors                  36.9        10.8        29.6   1.5    -        -



DETAILS OF ACTUAL AND ESTIMITED ANNUAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES
2. VALENCIA - PUERTO CABELLO AUTOPISTA
(Bs million)
Up to:      From:                                     Grand     Total
Ref.       Item                  7/1960   711960-1/1961   1961   1962   1963   1964   Total   from 1/1961
1   Earthworks                    3.1         2.2         10.5    8.4    8.5     -      32.7      27.4
2   Drainage                      0.3         0.2          1.7    1.8    1.7     -       5.7       5.2
3  Bridges                         _            -           -    10.1   10.0     -      20.1      20.1
4   Tunnels                                     -           -     9.5    9.6    9.5    28.6       28.6
5   Paving                                      -           -     6.5     -    21.7   28.2        28.2
6   Interchanges                   _            -           -     6.o    6.1    6.1    18.2       18.2
7   Toll Stations                  -            -                         -     5.9      5.9       5.9
8   Miscellaneous !jorks           _-                       -      -      -     5.6      5.6       5.6
9   Compensatory Works             -            -           -     2.9    3.0     -       5.9       5.9
10   Sub-total                     3.4          2.4        12.2  45.2  38.9  48.8   150.9         145.1
11   15% Construction
Contingencies after 1961       -           -            -     6.8    5.8    7.4    20.0       20.1
12   TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS      3.4          2.4        12.2  52.0  44.7  56.2  170.9          165.1
13   Land Acquisition               -           0.6         1.2     -     8.4    8.4    18.6
14   Engineering, Supervision
and Administration: Local     2.8         0.9          2.6    2.3    1.9    2.4    12.9
Foreign    -           -          0.4    0.4    0.2    0.2      1.2
15   TOTAL COSTS                   6.2          3.9        16.4  54.7  55.2   67.2   203.6
16   Payments made to
Contractors                   3.4         2.4          7.2     _      _      _



TABLE 7
ESTIMATED LOCAL AND FOREIGN CURRENJCY CMONEONINT OF
AUTOPISTA CONSIRUCTION COSTS
(exqpressed as % estimated construction cost)
Total     Local    Forei n
1. EQUIPMENT ....................... .        24.3.
Depreciation               16.0
Repair Parts                6.7
Tubes and Tires            1_6
214.3
2. HATERALS.. ................            .  34,.7       26.0      8.7
Imported Materials
Steel Culverts            2.h2
Explosives                 2.00
Illumination               1.80
Prestressing devices   ) 1.35
Special steel sections )
Timber                     0.35
Guard Rails                0.28
Tunnel devices             0.20
Hand tools                 0.10
Miscellaneous              0.20
8.70
Local Materials:  comprising,
inter alia - cement, sand, gravel,
stone, steel reinf., local timber,
gaso:Line, oil, grease, concrete
guard rails, nails, wire, etc.
amounts to .......    6*0
3.  SALARIES, WIAGES, SOCIAL BENEFITS.... .  25.0        24.0      1.0
4. ADMINISTRAWION AND OVIHEAD EXMEISES..    6.0           5.0      1.0
5. CoNTRACTCRSB  PROFIT .............   10.0   l10rO 
13TALS              100.0       65 0     35.0



TABLE 8
AVERAGE TRTJCK OPERATING COSTS, 1959 (-*)
Centimos
Running Charges                 per ton.km freight            % of Cost
Gasoline                              0.55                     3.9
Lubrication and oil                   0.57                     4.0
Tires                                 3.09                    22.0
Driver's wages                        2.30                    16.3
Assistant's wages                     1.02       7.53          7.3     53.5
Vehicle Charges
Depreciation of vehicle               2.30                    16.3
Maintenance and repair parts          1.25                     8.9
Maintenance and repair salaries       0.72       4.27          5.?     30.4
Insurance and Overhead Charges
Insurance                             0.34                     2.1!
Licenses and fees                     o.l45                    3.3
Depreciation of office and shop       0.08                     0.8
Administration and general            0.78                     5.6
Interest on total capital (6%)        0.55       2.20          4.0     16.1
14.0o                 100.0
(*) Based upon data supplied by a major trucking firm.



CLASSIFICATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES, 1958
weights in metric tons )
Average                             Equivalent
% of Truck           Net weight           Maximum            Truck
Type                  Number             . Tot'l               unio___             Payload           Payload
(1)                    (2)                 (3)                   (4)                (5)         (6) = (3) x (5)
Passenger Cars           186,000                -                     1.5                 -                -
Buses                       5,800               -                     7.0                2.0               _
Pick-ups                  26,000               32                     1.6               2.2               0.7
Light Trucks              19,200               23                     2*3                8.7              2.0
Medium Trucks              23,800              28                     4.6               10.9              3.1
Medium Heavy Trucks         8,500              10                     7.0               18.0              1.8
Heavy Trucks                5,800               7                    10.0               35.0              2.5
275,100             100%                                                       10.1
NOTE:    Trucks in Venezuela carry extremely heavy payloads (column 5), but in general the loads move one way  g
only and the vehicles normally return part loaded or empty. Considering an average round-trip load
factor for the whole country of about 60%, the equivalent payload of an average truck would then be
60% x 10.1 from column (6), or say around 6 tons.



TABLE 10
PR-.SrNIr TOLL CH1i TgS O\ DIFF3R,LNT AUTOPIST.S
(1)  CARACAS - LA GUAIRA;  Distance 18 Km.
Vehicle Class                                   Bs
Motorcycles                              1.00
Passenger Cars                           2.00
Trucks up to 11 ton canacity             3.00
Trucks 11 - 5 ton capacity               5.00
Trucks 5 - 12 ton canacity (*)          10.00
Trucks 1? - 20 ton capacity             20.00
Trucks more than 20 ton canacity        30.00
Ermpty trucks, all types                 5.00
(2) TEJ3.TIA9 TO:        LA VICTORIA           PALO NiGPRO          VALENCIA
Distance:             20 km               47 km               100 km
Vehicle Class            Bs                   Bs                  Bs
(total weight)
Up to 3 tons      0.75                 1.75                 3.25
3 - 7 tons        1.25                 3.00                 6.00
7 - 21 tons (*)   1.75                 4.50                 9.00
11 - 15 tons      2.25                 6.00                11.75
15 - 20 tons      3.00                 7.25                14. 50
20 - 25 tons      3.50                 8.75                17.25
25 - 30 tons      4.00                10.25                20.25
30 - 40 tons      4.5o                11.50                23.00
14o - 50 tons     5.25                13.00                25.75
(*)  Range of typical medium truck with payload averaged for round trip.



PHACTTGAL VFlOGu? COPAZITILS OF OID AND NEW d[C:dWAY FACIITTIFS
HPIOHAY C0dtiA2TRITICS AND ASOOITTED RUO'vTION FACTORS
Aicaway Section                0asi, 92sirn Gooscitv-                 Lnes           Lateral  dlearancen                       distance       C.onoltdated         Theo-etiou9                 Truck Factor                   C Css  i               Practical
EguavalIiiipeot  tf     s rd      5No.A width  Factor ),-^ta: Width   Fator ,         es50no0YFctor             Reduiction  oactor     Car C,aoity   ' ngth:tes-A   CarR' :t,v.   Average   Pan  V olsooo ('0)            Ccrtet
sees p.h.     (tj  p.h.)                                                                                                               (ears p.h.)                       - -                                                hA..h.
OXISTING ROADS
1.  Cohe - Tejeries            2,000            55-65            4 0 3 in      0.91   50%: 0-1 e      0.90)0.94       So£          o.85             0.72                 1,440       0)1: Eount.         10 )         6.3          20t                    700
or 3  3 4               25%: 1-2        0.96)                                                                           30,: Rolln-         5)
25S: o-e 2 1: 1.00)                                                                            30X5: Flat          2.5)
2.  Vallencis - El Palite      1,500            55-65            2 A 3.4 *    0.87   10%: 0-1         o 0.80)0.94     50%          0.85             0.70                 1,050        35%: Moust         10 ) l.0                  30%                    420
(esuth of Nagoas.oo.)                                                              50%: 1-2 m      0.93)                                                                          35t: ?ollir          5)
40%: over 2 s 1.00)                                                                            30to: Flat          2.5)
NEW kUTOPISTAS
1. Coach  - Tejeriec           1,000            70-80            4 0 3.65 m   1.00    5%: 1-2 m       0.97)0.99       10%          1.00             0.99                   990         25X: 3-51          1.          2.5          20%.                   760 p-? 2va-
per looe                                                95%:  -ver 2 s 1.00)                                                               per loe       75;: C-30         2 )                                         (laet 2,300 tobt  07)
2.  Valeania - El Polite       1,000            70-80            4 A 3.65 n   1.00    5%: 1-2 m       0.97)(0.99      10%          1.O0             0.99                   990         l%or.s-to-t 5t    0 )       a) 3.?          30( a) 600 per tone  ()Ot min,
per lane                                                95%S  over 2 m  1.00)                                                              pe, lone      30,: -%            4 )      b, 2.4 sith                        (abou:t 1,700 total o2)
6o0: C-3           2 )  5 kom truk lane                        k, 700  i th trock lane
(uPset 2,100 total A2)
NOTE-:   The above studies htae bees sadv according to the geserol Frocedure, cct forth in the following publio-tion: .n.).:  toene S's are  less by about 5% then
tie re-ordd %'s is the dully rolucn..
1)  "Iiigh.oy Cnpatity M-nsal', U.S. fArtas a? Public Psedr
2)  'Highway Calp.ity Studiec} U.S. Highnay Reocarch Board                                                                                                                                 (02) .  for four lene5 in both directions
3)  '7 Policy on Geonetrin 3asirn of Kl-ral  -igtuwayn, 0.0                                                                                                                                         oanslig a 2/3: 1/3 dir-oti ..l
oiitributisi7.             



Tablc 12
SALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT IN
THE COCHE - TEJERIAS AUTOPISTA
Outflows                 Inflow
Investment    Maintenance       Road User        Surplus        Present Value         Surlus           Cumulative
In Fighway    and Other         Benefits       or Deficit        of 1 at 8%         or Deficit          Balance
Construction   Current                         Current Value   Annual D.scount   Present Worth          Present Wqorth
and            Costs
Resurfacing
(1M2                          3                 4                (S)               (6)                  (7)
................. Million Bolivares .....................                          ..... Million Bolivares.
1961         93.5                                           -93.5             1.COO             -93.5                -93-5
1962         83.L                                           -83.4             0.926             -77.2               -170.7
1963        117.1                                          -117.1             0.857            -100.4               -271.1
1964         30.0                                           -30.0             0.794             -23.8               -298.9
1965                        4.2            25.1               20.9            0.735              15.3               -279.6
1966                        4.2            26.4               22.2            0.681              15.1               -264.5
1967                        4.2            27.7              23.5             o.630              14.8               -249.7
1968                        4.2            29.0               24.8            0.583              14.4               -235.3
1969                        4.2            30.3               26.1            0.540              lL.l               -221.2
1970                        4.1            32.1              28.0             0.500              14.0               -207.2
1971                        4.1            33.3              29.2             0.463              13.5               -193.7
1972                        8.1            34.5              30.4             0.429              13.1               -180.6
1973                        4.1            35.8              31.7             0.397              12.6               -168.0
1974                        l.1            37.0              32.9             0.368              12.1              -1:5.9
1975                        4.0            38.2              34.3             0.340              11.6               -144.3
1976                        4.0            36.8              32.4             0.315              10.2               -134.1
1977                        4.0            37.5              33.5             0.292               9.8              -124.3
1978                        4.0            38.5               34.5            0.270               9.3               -115.0
1979                        4.0            39.6              35.6             0.250               8.9               -106.1
1980                        4.0            40.7              36.7             0.232               8.5                -97.6
1981                        4.1            41.8              37.7             0.215               8.1                -89.5
1982                        4.1            42.8              38.7             0.199               7.7                -81.8
1983                        4.2            43.9              39.7             0.184               7.3                -74.5
1984                        4.2            45.0              40.8             0.170               6.9                -67.6
1985         29.8           3.9            46.1              12.4             0.158               2.0               -45.6
1986                        3.9            47.1              43.2             0.146               6.3                -59.3
1987                        4.0            48.2              44.2             0.135               6.0                -53.3
1988                        4.0            49.3              45.3            0.125                5.7               -47.6
1989                        4.1            50.4              46.3             0.116               5.8                -42.2
1990                        4.1            51.4              47.3            0.107                5.1               -37.1
1991                        4.2            52.5              48.3             0.099               4.8                -32.3
1992                        4.2            53.6              49.4            0.092                4.6               -27.7
1993                        4.3            54.7              50.4            0.085                4.3               -23.4
1994                        4.3            55.7              51.4             0.079               4.1                -19.3
1995                        4.4            56.8              52.4             0.073               3.8               -15.5
1996                        4.4            57.9              53.5             0.068               3.6                -11.9
1997                        4.4            59.0              54.6             0.063               3.4                 -8.5
1998                        4.4            60.0              55.6             0.058               3.2                 -5.3
1999                        4.4            61.1              56.7            0.054                3.1                 -2.2
2000                        4.4            62.2              57.8            0.050                2.9                 0.7



Table 13
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVFSTMENT IN
THE VALFNCIA - PTERTO CABELLO AUTOPISTA
Outflows                Inflow
Investment    Maintenance      Road User         Surplus       Present Value           Surplus        Cumulative
In Highway    and Other        Benefits         or Deficit       of 1 at 8%          or Deficit        Balance
Jonstraction   Current                        Current Value   Annual Discount    Present Worth    Present Worth
and           Costs
Resurfacing
(1)            (2)           (3)              ()(5)                                 ()(7)
................... Million Bolivares ....................                         ...... Million Bolivares.
1961        28.1                                           -28.1           1.000                -28.1              -28.1
1962        54.7                                           -54.7           0.926               -50.7               -78.8
1963        55.2                                            -55.2          0.857                -47.3             -126.1
1964        67.2                                           -67.2           0.794                -53.4             -179.5
1965                       3.0            13.7              10.7           0.735                  7.8             -171.7
1966                       3.0            14.6               11.6           0.681                 7.9             -163.8
1967                       2.9            15.5              12.6           0.630                  7.9             -155.9
1968                       2.9            16.4              13.5           0.583                  7.9             -114.0
1969                       2.9            17.3              14.4           0.540                  7.8             -140.2
1970                       2.8            18.5              15.7           0.500                  7.8             -132.4
1971                       2.8            19.4              16.6           0.463                  7.7             -124.7
1972                       2.9            20.2              17.3           0.429                  7-4             -117.3
1973                       3.0            21.1              18.1           0.397                  7.2             -110.1
1974                       3.0            22.0              15.0           0.368                  7.0             -103.1
1975                       3.1            22.9              19.8           0.340                  6.7              -96.4
1976                       3.1            22.4              19.3           0.315                  6.1              -90.3
1977                       3.1            23.3               20.2          0.292                  5.9              -84.4
1978                       3.2            24.2              21.0           0.270                  5.7              -78.7
1979                       3.2            25.1               21.9          0.250                  5.5              -73.2
1980                       3.2            26.0               22.8          0.232                  5.3              -67.9
1981                       3.2            26.9              23.7           0.215                  5.1              -62.8
1982                       3.3            27.8               24.5          0.199                  4.9              -57.9
1983                       3.3            28.7              25.4           0.184                  4.7              -53.2
1984                       3.3            29.6              26.3           0.170                  4.5              -48.7
1985        19.7           3.1            30.5                7.7          0.158                  1.2              -47.5
1986                       3.1            31.4              28.3           0.146                  4.1              -43.4
1987                       3.1            32.3               29.2          0.135                  3.9              -39.5
1988                       3.1            33.2              30.1           0.125                  3.8              -35.7
1989                       3.1            34.1              31.0           0.116                  3.6              -32.1
1990                       3.2            35.0              31.8           0.107                  3.4              -28.7
1991                       3.2            35.9              32.7           0.099                  3.2              -25.5
1992                       3.2            36.8              33.6           0.092                  3.1              -22.14
1993                       3.3            37.7              34.4           0.085                  2.9              -19.5
1994                       3.3            38.6              35.3           0.079                  2.8              -16.7
1995                       3.4            39.5              36.1           0.073                  2.6              -14.1
1996                       3.4            140.4             37.0           o.o68                  2.5              -11.6
1997                       3.4            41.3               37.9          0.063                  2.14              -9.2
1998                       3.4            42.2              38.8           0.058                  2.3               -6.9
1999                       3.4            43.1              39.7           0.054                  2.1               -4.8
2000                       3.4            44.0              40.6           0.050                  2.0               -2.8



ORGANIZATION                                          Venezuela: Figure I
OF
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER
OIRECTOR|
GENERAL
LEGAL                    DIRECTORAOTE
IADVISOR                   OCNTOLS]
DIRECTORATE  OF            SECRETARIAT
ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTORATES     I            PORTS          HIGHWAYS       M TENANCE         HYDRAULICS       UDEVELOPMENT       CARTGRAPHY
OF----                      AIRPORTS                                                            DVLPE             CRORP
INSPECTOR        INSPECTOR          INSPECTOR             PECTOR         INSPECTOR
__ZONE I  j    -LZONE 2                ZONE 3            ZONE 4             ZONE 5
M.O.P.            M.O.R              M.O.P             M.O.P              M.O.P.                   1
MAINTENANCE       MAINTENANCE        MAINTENANCE       MAINTENANCE        MAINTENANCE
DEPOT             DEPOT              DEPOT             DEPOT              DEPOT                    c
M.O.P.            M.O.P.             M.O.P             M.O.P.             M.O.RP
MAI NTENANCE      MAINTENANCE        MAI NTENANCE      MAINTENANCE        MAI NTENANCE               _
DEPOT             DEPOT              DEPOT             DEPOT              DEPOT
MOP.              M.O                M.O.R             M.O.P|  M.O. |.
MAINTENANCE       MAINTENANCE        MAINTENANCE       MAINTENANCE        MAINTENANCE
DEPOT             DEPOT              DEPOT             DEPOT              DEPOT
MAY 1961                                                                                                             I BRD-844



ORGANIZATION                              Venezuela: Figure 2
OF
DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
|DIRECTOR 
STANDARDS                      Tf            MARACAg I
[ADMINISTRATION +
DIVISIONS        Planning e     Studies   Bridges    Tunnels   Paving       Construction     Bidding X
OF  Coordination                                                              I Contract Control
MAY 1961                                                                                      IBRD-845
'n
N



Venezuela Figure 3
CHART OF VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS
Thousands                                                                                         948-58
of
Vehicles
325                                                                                                                                                                              1-
300                                                                                                                                                                  -
/  Probable 1960
Increment
8-9% p nintum
275                                                                                                                   ______ -i7                                                       _      _
250                                                                                                                   _______
225                                                                                                                                                                   ____ ___ _
200 1ob9le 1960
Increment
7    9% prmnu
175                                                                                                                    ___             __       _
150
125
100                                                                                                    __        _
-    rbbe1960
Incremnt
V!                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8-9%per awnum
75
50____
25                                                                                                                                                                                  ____
0148   ~          49              '50            '51             '52             53             '54             55             '5              '57             IN             '59             i
Recolds doubtfu1 due to                                                                Records only partially Ooviloble
1950-51 Revolution                                                                      due to 1958 Revolution.
MAY 1961                                                                                                                                                                                      I8RD-1346



VE NE ZU EL A
POLITICAL AND PHYSICAL
Map I
< \ )                    =^~~~~~~~PREAGUANA            C  A    R   /        S      E    A    N    S  E  A
/   >             nPEN~~~~~~~~~INSULA
<           /       ~~~VENEZUELA
ZJ + g~~~~ L \\S= < o~~~ ESPARTtj                                                                                  A ASUNCION
VAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1yui 1961IDAD 84



. \..........
..=J -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
U= ¢;Ar,'gA,,,,,,,,,,,,, .............
i'>wW                             i       ::    j      't' '..
N               t<S                               o .
wXHo5'



VENEZUELA
PROJECT EXPRESSWAYS                                                                                                                Map 3
i~~~ ~                                                  ~    ~~~~~                                                                             ~~~~ t~,9  !BL   i~  LDS
Nq .... g.                            MARACAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80M.
TX  )  9   0 <   <  <  w              5 0F V/S NC 00533                                 c/ d-
S~~~ ~~~~~~~~IT> :105/N //0'                                                     ..                                   SO tf~XFS';Y
VALEN( uA                            'Lak e             sc!~o         Pc a   i        /VaO dC                              F  .    Furl> +0.5              l
0     5      0   3     70  25Ni?55  CI  leP>N'VJV   Rb/                                                              -.''--'      F\ 50+DA lOb '  XS:IB AJ:AT ~
t I                 i~r h Z                                                                                            5,\0A00    nIXON DAVYE SR';" trIG~ '. <so U>''
'KiIoneIor,                              01;3u5bi Ar BEVE EbOH0V.XC /1.115+(5                                                                                  
MAY 961                                                                                                                                                                                               ,0P3- 768



