R E S T R I C T E D
F  e Report No. P-272
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. It may not be published
nor may it be quoted as representing the Bank's views. The Bank accepts no
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
December 4, 1961



REPORT AND RECOIvIENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Loan in various currencies equivalent to $45 million to the Republic of
Venezuela, to help finance the construction of the Coche-Tejerias and the
Valencia-Puerto Cabello expressways.
PART I: HISTORICAL
2.        In the fall of 1959, a General Survey Mission organized by the
Bank at the request of the Government of Venezuela, studied the economic
situation of the country and its four-year development program. Their
report, "The Economic Development of Venezuela"t, was published in May of
this year.
3.        Before the mission's report was published, the Government of
Venezuela asked the Bank to determine whether there were within the
development program projects suitable for immediate Bank consideration.
The mission had assigned high priority to highway development, including
the construction of the two expressways which would be financed under the
proposed Loan. In August 1960 members of the Bankts staff visited Venezuela
to review the highway development program and they, too, found that these
two highways had high priority and were well advanced in design and
engineering. Additional supporting information was obtained from the
Venezuelan authorities in March and May 1961e
4.        Negotiations in Washington began on June 14 and were recessed
at the end of that month, Certain legal problems arising from the Bank's
customary negative pledge and arbitration covenants remained -,.nsettled, but
after prolonged discuscions these have now been resolved.   i-be Thcaezuelan
Government was repxesented by Dr. Jose Antonio Mayobre, Ambassador in
Washington; Dr. Carlos Perez de la Cova, Minister Counselor for Economic
Affairs of the Embassy; and Dr, Francisco Azpurua, Director of Planning
and Coordination in the Directorate of Highways, Ministry of Public Works.
5.       The proposed Loan would be the Bankts first loan to Venezuela.
Other projects in the fields of power, transportation and agriculture
are being studied.



- 2 -
PART II: DESCRIPTION OF THE FROPOSED LOAN
6.  Borrower:                         The Republic of Venezuela.
Amount:                           The equivalent in various currencies
of $45 million.
Purpose:                          To finance the foreign exchange cost
of two expressways: one from Coche
(Caracas) to Tejerias, the other from
Valencia to Puerto Cabello; and related
engineering services.
Amortization:                     33 semi-annual installments from
January 1, 1966 to January 1, 1982.
Interest Rate:                    5-3/4 percent.
Commitment Charge:                3/4 of 1% per annum.
Payment Dates:                    January 1 and July 1.
PART III:  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND LEGAL AUTHORITY
7.        A draft Loan Agreement is attached (No.1).   It contains provisions
normally included in loan agreements for highway development. There is,
however, one special feature, namely that Section 5.07 (the negative pledge
covenant) does not specifically refer to the Central Bank of Venezuela,
the agency which disposes of the country's principal exchange reserves. It
was found impossible to make specific reference since under present law the
Central Bank is forbidden to pledge its assets to secure any debt of the
Government of Venezuela.
8.        Nonetheless, an alternative way has been found to protect the
interest of the Bank. The Government has entered into a formal agreement
with the Central Bank (described in the letter attached as No.2) in which
the Central Bank undertakes not to create liens on its assets, except
liens arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and relating
to obligations whose term does not exceed one year. In accordance with
Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement, the modification or termination of this
arrangement without the agreement of the Bank would be an event of default,
entitling the Bank to premature the Loan.
9.        The Government of Venezuela is authorized under a Law of July 25,
1961 to enter into the Loan Agreement.
10.       The report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, is attached (No.3).



PART IV: APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
11.      An appraisal of the Project (TO-288a) is attached (No.4).
Justification of the Project
12.       Because of topography and historical development, the population
of Venezuela is concentrated in the North, where spurs of the Andes approach
the Caribbean Sea. The principal cities, oil deposits, ocean ports and
industries are in this region, Because of the mountainous terrain,
railroads have proven uneconomic to build and maintain, and traffic on the
railroad has been diminishing in recent years. The existing roads are
already carrying traffic far above their designed capacity, which makes
them slow, dangerous and expensive to move upon. The highways proposed
for financing will provide fast and safe facilities for the movement of
goods and persons over a wide area in the most rapidly developing region
of Venezuela.
13.       The two parts of the Project, which are already under construction,
will prolong an already existing expressway between Valencia and Tejerias,
connecting it at one end with Venezuela's second largest and most promising
port, Puerto Cabello, and at the other with its capital city, Caracas, at
Coche, a suburb. They will improve speed and safety, and reduce the expense
of moving merchandise betwieen Puerto Cabello and the Caracas area. They
will assist in the decentralization of industry from the Capital, and will
help to lower industrial production costs throughout the country.
14.       The expressways are costly, measured on a per-mile basis, in
relation to roads normally financed by the Bank in underdeveloped countries.
However, 'the nature of the terrain and the high design standards and
capacity requirements of the roads themselves make this unavoidable. Within
the next few years, the number of vehicles per capita in Venezuela will
approach that of the Netherlands or Western Germany.   It is estimated that,
over an economic life for the highways of 35 years, the net economic
benefits from road-user savings alone would repay the capital investment at
a rate of return of about 8%.
15.       The Project will make an important contribution to the economic
development of Venezuela. The investment of the Venezuelan Government in
it is justified.
Arrangements for Financing
16.       Including work already carried out, the total cost of the two
expressways is $160 million. The amount now necessary to complete the
Project is estimated at about $120 million; the foreign exchange component,
including adequate provision for contingencies, would be about $h44 million.
This figure, with the addition of $1 million for consulting services, makes
up the $45 million of the proposed Loan. The remaining cost of the Project
would be met by annual appropriations from the Venezuelan budget.



-14-
Procurement
17.       The construction work would be carried out by contractors under
unit price contracts to be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
Economic Situation
18,       As pointed out in the report on the "Economic Position and Prospects
of Venezuelat circulated on Jurne 21, 1961 (ft61-62), Venezuela:s economic
position has for many years been str-,ng, due to earnings fror the petroleum
industry. Foreign exchange earnings are the highest in Latin America, and
economic growth has averaged 8% during the past ten years.
19.       This high rate of growth has, however, been greatly reduced,
particularly in 1960 and 1961. The main factors responsible for the
setback of the economy in the past two years were the sharp decline in
construction activity and the considerably slower growth of output of oil
and manufactures. This stagnation reflects even more the financial crisis
which assumed extreme proportions in late 1959. Due to continued capital
flight, gold and foreign excha;-ge reserves were greatly reduced in 1960
even though imports declined by more than 25% and the Government resorted
to large-scale external borrowing to meet its budgetary commitments,
20.       The Government's attempts to cneck the loss of reserves and to
restore internal and external balance by such measures as exchange controls
and a partial devaluation, have so far proved only partially successful.
The elimination of excess liquidity in 1960 slowed dowm but has not
eliminated capital flight in 1961. While foreign exchange reserves are no
longer declining, a real revival in private investment has not yet taken
place and business confidence is still lacking.
21.       In view of the difficult financial situation, the Government has
been taking measures to achieve budgetary equilibrium and to encourage
investment. As a result, current expenditures will be cut back and taxes
increased through a partial tax reform, including an increase in income and
gasoline taxes. With such measures, which the Government has already partly
implemented, an important step toward fiscal balance has been taken; this
step will also enable Venezuela to contribute substantial domestic resources
to carrying out its four-year development program. In addition, external
borrowing on a reasonable scale for well-conceived projects can play a
useful role in restoring confidence in the continued expansion of the economy
and can help to revive private investment.
22.       Venezuela's presently outstanding public external debt amounts to
$365 million, practically all of which is relatively short-term. A $200
million loan obtained in March 1960 from a group of private American banks
is repayable in 1961-64; and a $75 million Export-Import Bank credit, in
1964-68.  Peak debt service payments are $107 million in 1962, which is 7%
of net exchange receipts on current account in 1960. By 1965, service on
present debt will fall to $20 million.



- 5-
Prospects of Fulfillment of Obligations
23.       The Project is technically sound and well managed.    Contract
procedures and the methods proposed for the construction of the Project are
satisfactory. Consulting engineers satisfactory to the Bank will be
retained for the construction period of the Project. Highway maintenance
is good in Venezuela. Cost estimates are realistic.
2h.       The Government of Venezuela has undertaken to provide the funds
needed to cover its share of the cost of the Project. The service of the
Loan, together with Venezuelats other foreign exchange obligations, should
not impose an undue burden on the Venezuelan economy.
PART V: CCMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES CF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
PART VI: RECOMMENDATIONS
26.       I recommend that the Bank make a Loan to the Republic of Venezuela
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $45 million with interest
(including commission) at 5-3/h% per annum and on such other terms as are
specified in the attached draft Loan Agreement and that the Executive
Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in the form attached (No.5).
Washington, D.C.                               Eugene R. Black
December 4, 1961                                  President



