Report No. PID6998
Project Name                      Mali-Financial Sector Capacity...
Building Project
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Financial Sector
Project ID                        MLPE1748
Borrower                          Government of MALI
Implementing Agency              Ministere des Finances
B.P. 234
Bamako, Mali
Tel:     (223) 225726 & 225858
Fax:     (223) 228853
Date PID Prepared                 September 28, 1998
Projected Appraisal               February 22, 1999
Projected Board Date              March 30, 1999
A.       Country and Sector Background
1.      Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world with per capita income
estimated at about US$260 in 1997. Access to key social services notably
education, basic health, potable water, sanitation is limited. Adult
illiteracy is estimated at 68%, primary school education enrollment rates are
among the lowest in the world and the ratios of population per physician and
per nurse are below the standard World Health Organization norms for Africa.
Since the late 1980s, the economy has been recovering as a result of
Government of Mali's fundamental changes in its economic development strategy
that is now based on a market-based approach. The Government has deepened its
economic reform agenda since the devaluation of the CFA Franc in 1994 and
adjustment efforts began to bear fruits. In 1997 the economy grew by 6.7% in
real terms, compared with 2.3% in 1994. Average consumer prices declined by
0.79 compared to an increase of 24.8% in 1994. Continued efforts to improve
revenue collection and restrain expenditures resulted in significant decrease
in  the overall budget deficit from 13.7% of GDP in 1994 to 7.8% in 1997.      In
the external sector, the current account deficit, excluding official
transfers, was reduced from 16.9% of GDP in 1994 to 9.3% in 1997. Real GDP
growth is projected to average about 5% per annum over the medium term
allowing per capita income growth of at least 1.5%.
2.      Mali's financial sector consists of: (i) seven banks of which four are
commercial banks, an agriculture bank and a housing bank ; (ii) non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs) that include five insurance companies, a credit
institution (Credit Initiative) and a pension system comprised of a social
security and pension fund for private sector employees (Institut National de
Prevoyance Sociale--INPS) and another for civil servants (Caisse de Retraite
du Mali--CRM); and (iii) a significant number of micro-finance institutions
supported mostly by external donors or NGOs. The Bank was involved in the
Malian financial sector in 1988, when the major bank, Banque de Developpement
du Mali (BDM) and ChOques Postaux du Mali (CPM), a deposit institution, were
virtually bankrupt. At this time, along with the French cooperation, the Bank



helped restructure both institutions through a structural adjustment credit.
BDM was financially restructured and partly privatized with the share of the
Government in its capital reduced to 20% while a foreign partner, Banque
Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur, took over the management of the bank along
with a 20% share of its capital. CPM which was an appendix of the Government
treasury, was established as a bank under the control of the BCEAO -- Societe
des chbques postaux et de la caisse d'epargne (SCPCE) -- which later became
the housing bank mentioned above. Since then, although the financial sector
has remained weak, it did not face any serious crisis.
B.      Objectives
9.      The objective of the proposed project is to improve the soundness,
performance and competitiveness of the financial sector and to enable it to
support broad-based private sector growth. This will be accomplished by: (i)
restructuring and privatizing viable banks and non-bank financial institutions
(social security and retirement funds and insurance companies) and liquidating
the others; (ii) providing assistance to the institutions remaining in the
sector to improve their institutional capacity (iii) strengthening the micro-
finance network and the Government body in charge of the supervision of
microfinance institutions; (iv) ensuring that regulations and laws relating to
the financial sector adopted at the regional level by the West African
Monetary Union (WAMU) are adequately implemented at the national level; and
(v) improving the domestic regulatory environment of the financial sector to
facilitate the introduction and development of new financial instruments and
institutions.
C.      Description
10. The project is expected to have the four following components:
(a) a Policy, regulatory and legal component to help the Government:
(i) identify in the regulatory framework adopted at the national level
constraints impeding the development of financial sector operations
and of new financial instruments or institutions and effectively
implement measures to alleviate them; these concern specifically
fiscal regimes applying to the operations of financial institutions
and instruments and legal dispositions specific to financial sector
operations; and
(ii) adequately implement regulations adopted at the West African
Monetary Union (WAMU) level especially with regard to loan guarantees,
loan recovery and incentives for new financial institutions and
instruments;
(b) a Banking Sector component to: (a) help the Government prepare and
implement an action plan for the banking sector aimed at restructuring
and privatizing viable institutions, and liquidating the others; (b)
provide, on a cost sharing basis, consultants services to help banks
prepare strategic development plans, identify needs for staff training
and implement a training program; and (c) strengthen the Association
Professionnelle des Banques et Etablissements financiers (APBEF) and
enable it to provide, inter alia, management advice to the banks
remaining in the system and coordinate training of their staff.
(c) a Non-Bank Financial institutions component to: (a) help the
Government: (i) prepare and implement an action plan aimed at
-2 -



restructuring and restoring the long-term viability of social security
and pension funds (INPS and CRM); (ii) finalize the privatization of
CNAR; (iii) ensure adequate follow up on supervision of insurance
companies carried out by a regional supervisory body (CIMA) and
promote a development strategy for the sector; and (iv) reinforce
government bodies in charge of ensuring that insurance requirements
are complied with; and, (b) provide assistance to help insurance
companies improve their management and prepare their strategic
development plans.
(d) a Micro-Finance sector component to assist in: (a) establishing
and strengthening, within the Ministry of Finance, of CASSMEC, the
supervisory body for micro-finance institutions; (b) strengthening
capacity building of the MFIs through helping establish a sustainable
professional association that would provide MFIs with management
guidance and other professional services on a supply-driven basis;
and,(c) providing training to the staff of all institutions involved
in the MFI sector.
D.      Financing
11. A credit of US$10 million equivalent is proposed. Other financing will be
provided by banks shareholders for the restructuring of the banking sector.
Bi-lateral donors are expected to participate in the financing of the micro-
finance component .
E.      Project Implementation
12. The Ministry of Finances will be responsible for the
implementation of the overall project. It is envisaged, however, that
the Groupe de Reflexion sur le Secteur Financier (GRSF) becomes an
executing agency and prepares all the studies, action plans and
measures to be implemented by the Ministry of Finance. The Project
will therefore provide to the GRSF financing of its operating costs,
equipment and consultants services for the preparation and
restructuring of the whole financial sector.
Sustainability
13.     Long -term sustainability of the institutions concerned by the project is
of crucial importance. All financial institutions must become viable at the
end of the project. Factors that could affect the sustainability of the
project benefits include a relaxing of supervision of financial institutions
or the lack of resources to fund overtime the cost of restructuring or
liquidation of financial institutions. The technical assistance to be
provided by the project and the regional project in support of BCEAO should
alleviate the former risk. Arrangements to provide assistance to individual
institutions should be contingent upon satisfactory implementation of a
restructuring plan. The privatization of financial institutions should
provide, as this was the case for BIM and CNAR, the resources needed to
restructure them. In the case of liquidation, budgetary contributions will be
needed.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
14.     During project preparation, attention will be paid to:
- 3 -



(a) the lesson learned from the ongoing Private Sector Assistance Project
(PSAP) that participatory approach is crucial for adequate preparation as well
as implementation of a project. The problems that the PSAP has encountered
stemmed mostly from the fact that there was no ownership or consensus on its
objectives. To avoid this pitfall, the project is being prepared with the full
participation of the Groupe de Reflexion sur le Secteur Financier (GRSF), a
consultative body including representatives of all financial sector
stakeholders. The GRSF has set up working groups including representatives of
the financial sector, of the private sector at large and of the Government. It
has undertaken various studies with the Bank's assistance, with a view of
proposing to the Government and the Bank, an overall action plan for the
financial sector;
(b) the lessons learned from the Bank's experience in financial sector
operations , particularly with regard to restructuring banks and financial
institutions namely: securing the Government's full commitment, avoiding
restructuring rather than liquidating non viable institutions, and
recommending conservatory measures that do not include recapitalization prior
to privatizing institutions. In terms of sequencing, lessons learned indicate
that improvement of banks (or financial institutions) regulations and
supervision should precede the restructuring. In the case of Mali, actions
will be undertaken at the regional level to improve supervision under a Bank-
supported project presently under preparation. In terms of action plan
preparation, attention will be paid to the identification of measurable goals
and benchmarks to assess implementation progress;
(c) the lessons learned from experience in technical assistance projects. A
key ingredient will be to build an ownership as mentioned above to ensure that
the parties concerned are committed to the project, and that the TA to be
provided will result from a need felt rather than being supply-driven. The
participatory approach to the preparation of the project should be completed,
during project appraisal, by a ZOPP (Ziel-Orienterte Projekt Planung) workshop
with the participation of all project beneficiaries to: (i) increase
accountability and transparency; and (ii) agree on performance indicators to
monitor the process of capacity building assistance delivery, its outputs,
outcomes and impact rather than focusing only on the monitoring of performance
inputs. Finally the Government's commitment to the project will be laid out in
a Letter of Sector Development Policy.
Poverty Category
15.     The project will not focus directly on poverty reduction and therefore no
poverty category is assigned to the proposed project. However, this project is
expected to contribute to poverty alleviation through the support given to
micro-finance institutions. Vulnerable groups are expected to benefit from
increased access to small credit which will facilitate their undertaking of
economic activities. A more efficient financial sector is also expected to
facilitate the development of the private sector and employment in Mali.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The project is not expected to have any direct adverse environmental
impact. The project is envisaged to be classified in Environmental Category C.
Program Objective Categories
17.     The program Objective Category is FS.
- 4 -



Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 30, 1998.
- 5 -



