Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20510-MLI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.8 MILLION
(US$21 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 6, 2000
Financial Sector Unit
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of April 4, 2000)
Currency Unit = FCFA
FCFA 1 = US$0.00153
US$1 =FCFA 600
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD        Agence Francaise de Developpement
APBEF      Bankers' Association (Association Professionnelle des Banques et Etablissements
Financiers)
APIM       Association of Microfinance Institutions (Association Professionnelle des Institutions
de Microfinance)
BCEAO    Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
BCS        Commercial Bank of the Sahel (Banque Commerciale du Sahel)
BDM-SA   Development Bank of Mali (Banque de Developpement du Mali)
BHM        Bank for Housing of Mali (Banque de l'Habitat du Mali)
BIAO       International Bank for West Africa (Banque Intemationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale)
BICIM      International Bank for Commerce and Industry-Mali (Banque Internationale pour le
Commerce et l'Industrie du Mali)
BIM        Mali International Bank (Banque Internationale pour le Mali)
BMCD       Malian Bank for Credit and Deposits (Banque Malienne de Credit et de Dep6ts)
BMCE       Moroccan Bank of External Trade (Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur)
BNDA       Agricultural Development Bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole)
BOA        Bank of Africa
BRVM       Regional Stock Exchange (Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CAS/SFD   Support and Monitoring Unit for Microfinance Institutions (Cellule d'Appui et de Suiyi des
Systemes Financiers Decentralises)
CAR        Central African Republic
CB         Banking Supervision Commission (Commission Bancaire)
CDC        Collateral Deposit Company (La Caisse de Ddp6t et Consignations)
CE         Credit Effectiveness
CGAP       Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CRSRDA   Consultative Group for the Financial Sector (Cellule de Reflexion et de Suivi de la Reforme
du Droit des Affaires)
Vice President        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director      Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager        Gerard A. Byam
Team Leader           Noel K. Tshiani



iii
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Cont.)
Ci         Initiative Credit (Credit Initiative)
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
CIMA       Inter-African Conference for Trade and Insurance (Conference inter-africaine du marche
des assurances)
CIPRES    Inter-African Conference for Social Prevention (Conference inter-africaine de prevention
sociale)
CMDT       Malian Textile Company (Compagnie Malienne de Textiles)
CNAR      National Insurance and Reinsurance Company (Caisse Nationale d'Assurance et
Reassurance)
COFIPA    African Equity and Financing Company (Compagnie Africaine de Financement et de
Participations)
CPM        Malian Postal Checking System (Cheques Postaux du Mali)
CRM        Pension Fund (Caisse de Retraite du Mali)
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DGMP       Office of the Director General of Procurement (Direction Generale des Marches Publics)
DNTCP    Division of the National Treasury and Public Accounting Department
FMI        Financial Management Initiative
FMS        Financial Management system
FSPAU      Financial Sector Policy and Advisory Unit
GDP        Gross Domesti Product
GOM        Government of Mali
GPN        General Procurement Notice
GRSF       Consultative Group for the Financial Sector (Groupe de Reflexion sur le Systeme Financier)
GTZ        German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IAPSO      Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the united Nations Development Program
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Agency
IFAD       Institutional Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC        International Finance Corporation
INPS       Social Security Institute (Institut National de Prevoyance Sociale)
IRVM       Income Tax on Financial Instrument (Imp6t sur les Revenues des Valeurs Mobilieres)
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
MFIs       Microfinance Institutions
MoEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
NBFIs      Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NBF        Not-Bank Financed
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
OHADA    Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (Organisation pour
l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique)
OPs        Occupancy Permits
PA         Project Account
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PARMEC   Projet d'Appui A la Reglementation sur les Mutuelles d'Epargne et de Credit
PFMS       Project Financial Management System
PIUs       Project Implementation Units
PMR        Project Management Report



iv
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Cont.)
PSAP       Private Sector Assistance Project
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
SCPCE      Postal Checking and Savings Fund (Societe des Cheques Postaux et de la Caisse d'Epargne)
SGI        General Brokerage and Intermediation Company (Societe de Gestion et d'Intermediation)
SMEs       Small and Medium Enterprises
SOMAFI   Malian Company for Financing (Societe Malienne de Financement)
SA         Special Account
TA         Technical Assistance
TORs       Terms of Reference
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WAEMU   West African Economic and Monetary Union
ZOPP       Ziel-Orienterte Projekt Planung



v
MALI
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective .............................................................2
1. Project Development Objectives ............................................................2
2. Key Performance Indicators ............................................................2
B: Strategic Context ............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .....................2
2. Main  Sector Issues and Government Strategy ............................................................3
3. Sector Issues to be Adressed  by the Project and  Strategic Choices ........................................... 11
C: Project Description Summary ...........................................................                                                         13
1. Project Components ...........................................................                                                                  13
2. Key  Policy  and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project ............................................... 16
3. Benefits and Target Population ........................................................... 16
D: Project Rationale ...........................................................                                                                   19
1. Project Alternatives Considered  and  Reasons for Rejection ..................................................... 19
2. Lessons Learned  and Reflected  in the Project Design ...........................................................     19
3. Indications of Borrower Commitment and  Ownership ...........................................................  20
4. Value Added  of Bank  Support in this Project ..........................                                   ................................. 21
E: Issues Requiring Special Attention ...........................................................                                                  21
1. Economic Assessment .......................                           .              ..                           ..                          . 21
2. Technical Assessment ......................... 22
3. Institutional Assessment ....................                                                                                                   22
4. Social Assessment ....................                                                                                                          22
5. Environmental Assessment ....................                                                                                                   23
6. Participatory Approach .......................                                                                                                  23
F: Sustainability and Risks .......................                                                                                                 23
1. Sustainability .......................                                                                                                          23
2. Critical Risks .......................                                                                                                           24
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................                                                                                           25
G: Main Credit Conditions .......................                                                                                                  25
1. Effectiveness Conditions .......................                                                                                                25
2. Other .......................                                                                                                                    25



vi
H: Readiness for Implementation .........................                      25
I: Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                     26
ANNEXES
Annex 1.     Logical Framework and Performance Indicators
Annex 2.     Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 5-A    Financial Management Systems Assessment
Annex 5-B    Action Plan for Financial Management
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 9.     Documents in Project File
Annex 10.    Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance Management
Annex 11.    Statement of IFC's Loans and Credits
Annex 12.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Mali
Annex 13.    Country at a Glance
Map



MALI
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Date: June 6, 2000                  Task Team Leader: Noel K. Tshiani
Country Director: Hasan A. Tuluy    Sector Manager: Gerard A. Byam
Project ID: ML-PE-1748              Sector: Financial Sector
Lending Instrument: TAL             Theme(s): Bank Restructuring and Privatization, Non-Bank
Financial Institutions Reform, Social Security Reform,
Microfinance Development, Legal and Regulatory Reforms, and
strengthening of Ministry of Industry and Finance.
Poverty Targeted Intervention:     [ ] Yes  [x]  No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [x] Credit   [ ] Grant  [I Guarantee    I[] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$21 million:
Proposed terms:    [] To be defined    [] Multicurrency  []     Single currency
[x] Standard IDA       [] Fixed    [] LIBOR-based
Terms
Grace period (years):      10 years
Years to maturity:         40
Commitment fee:            5%
Service charge:           75%
Financing plan:             (] To be defined
Source                            Local              Foreign      Total
Government                                         1l269                    -         1,269
Beneficiaries                                         853                   -           853
IDA                                                 2,096               18,860        20,955
Other (specify)
Total:                                              4,218              18,860         23,077
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency: Ministry of Economy and Finance (Mo
EF)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                      2001       2002        2003         2114       2005       2006
Annual                        7.6          4.8       3.0          2.8         2.7      0.0
Cumulative                    7.6         12.4      15.4         18.2        21.0    21.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2006
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 2000           Expected closing date: April 30, 2006
Implementing agency: Ministry of Economy and Finance
Contact person:     Mr. Bacari Kone, Minister of Economy and Finance
Address:            Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, BP. 234 Bamako, Republique du Mali
Tel: 223-22 65 86 or 223 22 88 53    Fax: 223- 22 88 53           E-mail:



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objectives (see Annex 1)
1.   The objective of the proposed project is to improve the soundness, performance and
competitiveness of the financial sector and enable it to support broad-based private sector growth. This
will be accomplished by (a) restructuring and privatizing viable state-owned banks, and strengthening
non-bank financial institutions, including social security and retirement funds; (b) enhancing the capacity
of financial institutions through training financed on a cost-sharing basis; (c) strengthening microfinance
institutions and the Government Microfinance Supervisory Agency; and (d) helping to improve the legal
and regulatory environment affecting the financial sector.
2.   The government is looking to the privatization of financial institutions as a means of improving
their governance and the overall efficiency of the financial sector. The project would provide technical
assistance (TA) to help the government implement a restructuring and privatization program which is at
the core of its economic reforms supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Achievement of these reforms would contribute to the fulfillment of the government's macroeconomic
stability objectives.
2. Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
3.   Project benefits would be measured through an assessment of the following:
X Financial institutions comply with key prudential ratios (capital adequacy, risk concentration and
liquidity) and substantially reduce the level of non-performing loans from the present level
(industry-average) of 23 percent to 18 percent by the second, 15 percent the third year and and
10 percent by the end of the project;
* Financial intermediation has been broadened by the end of the project with the introduction and
development of new instruments such as CD's, leasing, and venture capital;
* Treasury deposits will be placed with banks following a compteitive basis process; and
* Reduced government ownership in the banking sector.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
Document number: Report Number 17775-ML
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 26, 1998
4.   The CAS objectives for Mali, which were discussed by the Board in May 1998, include medium-
term improvement in government budgetary performance and the promotion of private sector sustained
growth through improved availability of diversified financial products.
5.   To support sustainable and accelerated growth, the private sector needs efficient financial
intermediation. First, this requires that the legal and regulatory environment for financial sector
operations becomes conducive to the development of financial institutions and the creation of new



3
financial instruments that meet the needs of individual and institutional investors. Second, existing
financial institutions should be strengthened and the range of financial services should be expanded to
encompass a wider segment of entrepreneurs and consumers, including those who belong to the poor
segments of the population.
6.   To achieve these objectives, the CAS includes in its lending program the proposed Financial Sector
Development Project for fiscal 2000. The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS objectives: by
ensuring that only healthy institutions remain in the financial sector, it will lessen, if not eliminate, macro-
economic risks associated with poor financial sector performance and will provide the basis for sound
financial intermediaries that are responsive to the needs of the private sector.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
7.   The government's strategy in the financial sector in Mali aims specifically at (a) encouraging the
private sector and the government to take advantage of the existing legal framework; (b) strengthening the
microfinance network and increasing the government's supervision and monitoring capacities; (c)
restructuring and privatizing bank and non-bank financial institutions that are viable; (d) improving
financial interrnediation by supporting the local antenna of the Regional Stock Exchange (Bourse
Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres (BRVM)) and the General Brokerage and Intermediation Company
(Societe de Gestion et d'Intermediation (SGI)); and (e) building bridges between the operations of banks,
non-bank financial institutions, and microfinance institutions to encourage greater financial sector
outreach.
8.   Structure of the Financial Sector. The financial sector is fragmented and financial intermediation
is shallow and inefficient. The sector's lack of depth is reflected in the relatively low M2 as a percentage
of GDP of 22 percent, which is below the low sub-Saharan average of 25 percent. The underdeveloped
financial infrastructure as well as the public's lack of confidence in the financial sector are reflected in a
relatively high currency-to-deposit ratio of 58.6 percent which is higher than the sub-Saharan average of
41.1 percent. The extension of bank credit to the private sector (10.7 percent of GDP) is also low by sub-
Saharan standards (an average of 14.9 percent of GDP).
9.   The sector consists of (a) nine banks', including seven commercial banks, one agricultural bank
and one housing bank; (b) non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), which include a specialized credit
institution for SMEs (Credit Initiative), five insurance companies, one pension system comprising a social
security fund for private sector employees (Institut National de Prevoyance Sociale (INPS)), one pension
fund for civil servants (Caisse de Retraite du Mali (CRM)); and one collateral safekeeping institution,
Caisse de Dep6ts et Consignations (CDC); two leasing companies (Malian Company for Financing -
Societe Malienne de Financement (SOMAFI) and Equibail)); and (c) a significant number of
microfinance institutions funded in large part by international donors or non-governmental organizations
(NGOs).
10.  Commercial banks and credit institutions are governed by the banking law of the Banque Centrale
des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and supervised by the Commission Bancaire which are both
established as regional institutions. Recently, the BCEAO has also issued regulations for microfinance
institutions. The insurance companies are regulated and supervised at the regional level by Conference
Inter-Africaine du Marchd des Assurances (CIMA). A third regional body, which will regulate and
supervise pension funds, the Conference Inter-Africaine de Prevention Sociale (CIPRES), has recently
been established.
These are: Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM-SA), Banque Intemationale du Mali (BIM), Banque Malienne de Credit
et de Depots (BMCD), Bank of Africa (BOA), Banque Commerciale du Sahel (BCS), Banque Nationale de Developpement
Agricole (BNDA), Ecobank-Mali, Banque Intemationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie du Mali (BICIM), and Banque de
I'Habitat du Mali (BHM).



4
11.  The Banking Sector. The banking sector is characterized by substantial government ownership.
Of the nine banks, only three (Bank of Africa (BOA), Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et
l'Industrie du Mali (BICIM) and Ecobank-Mali) are fully private. The government is owner of one major
bank, Banque Malienne de Credit et de Dep6ts (BMCD) and the housing bank, Banque de l'Habitat du
Mali (BHM), controls Banque Internationale pour le Mali (BIM), and holds 20 to 50 percent of the equity
shares in another three banks (see Table 1). The Minister of Finance is Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Banque Malienne de Developpment (BDM-SA) and BMCD but has acknowledged this
conflict of interest and has committed, through the Letter of Sector Development Policy, to relinquish the
chairmanships by June 30, 2000.
Table 1: Assets and Ownership of Banks as of December 31, 1999
Institutions    Total Assets
___________(billion FCFA)                       Ownership (%)
Government and    Private Sector          Other          Total
its Subdivisions                                         (%)
BMCD                58           loo1                                                     100
BDM-SA              134            20                23           BCEAO: 20               100
BOAD:  20
BMCE:  17
BIM                 65             61.5              38.5                                 100
BNDA                63             41.8               5.5         (PROPACO, GTZ, etc.):    100
52.7
BCS                 26             50                             (Libyan Foreign Trade   100
__________________         ~Bank):   50
BOA                 54                               100                                  100
ECOBANK-            20                               100                                  100
Mali
BHM                 23            60.5               39.5                                 100
BICIM               19                               100                                  100
12.  BDM-SA is the largest bank in Mali with 272 employees and 14 branches. BDM-SA has increased
its net income over the past years, and its non-performing loan portfolio is roughly 5 percent of total
assets. Its strategy is aimed at maintaining its position as a leader among the banks in Mali while
becoming a major bank within the West African Eonomic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) following the
introduction in January 2000 of the unique licensing agreement which allows banks, once licensed, to
operate anywhere within the WAEMU. In March 2000 a consortium consisting of BDM-SA and BMCE
purchased 49.98 percent of the share capital of Banque Malienne de Credit et de Dep6t (BMCD) from the
Malian Government. The consortium intends to purchase another 1.02 percent of BMCD's share capital
within the next three to four months, and to conclude a merger between BDM-SA and BMCD in the
course of the next two years. The government is facilitating the merger. Although the combined bank
would control 46 percent of the Malian banking sector, it will rank 7 in the WAEMU and account for
less than 10 percent of the regional banking market, which is open to all banks in the region.
13.  Over the past four years, most of the banks have experienced constant growth and improved
profits. Nevertheless, some banks face several problems, including the following:
2 Pursuant to the law 96-069 of December 3, 1996, 49.98 percent of the shares of BMDC were offered for sale and adjucated to a
consortium of BMDIBMCE, which is awaiting approval by BCEAO and the Commission Bancaire to consummate the
transaction.
3The shares of BIM were placed under "sequestre" and the statutes suspended by order of the Commission Bancaire on July 8,
1999. A temporary administration was installed by decision of the Minister of Finance, as of the same date.



5
* Risk concentration - regarding the single-borrower limit (75 percent of equity as of January 1,
2000) is evident with respect to the exposure to Compagnie Malienne de Textile (CMDT), a
government-owned cotton exporter. At the end of 1999, when the liquidity crisis of CMDT
erupted, five banks were all exposed to CMDT, by an amount equal to FCFA 48 billion, which
is higher than their equity (BDM-SA's exposure is four times its equity). At the same time,
CMDT owed FCFA 60 billion to foreign banks and had pledged future export proceeds to
foreign banks in support of their credit to the cotton company. This exposure concentration has
created considerable systemic risk for the banking system. As of March 2000, local banks'
exposure to CMDT had been reduced to about FCFA 8 billion as the company developed a
borrowing relationship with a pool of French banks, therefore alleviating pressure on borrowing
from the Malian commercial banks.
* The portfolio structure ratio, is not met by a few banks. It is virtually difficult to meet under
existing guidelines, if only for technical reasons, including the stringent deadlines for
submission of audited financial data before they are even available. As the banks are unable to
meet the ratio, they are penalized in their access to Central Bank refinancing. A review of the
ratio is under way by the Commission Bancaire.
* Non-compliance with BCEAO prudential requirements. Banque Intemationale pour le Mali
(BIM), under temporary administration by the authorities, did not meet the capital adequacy
ratio, and BOA, Ecobank, BHM, and BICIM, did not meet the minimum liquidity ratio as of
December 31, 1999. None of the banks in Mali complies with the credit structure ratio. The
Commission Bancaire (CB) is insisting on compliance, but enforcement has been slow, as the
political and monetary authorities have not reacted promptly to lack of compliance by banks.
The Commission Bancaire is usually specific in its injunctions and recommendations to the
banks, where specific remedial actions are required. Prudential ratios are meaningless, if they
are not realistically attainable (mostly those regarding risk concentration and liquidity), and/or
the supervisory authorities do not enforce them within a definite time frame.
- Weak capital base. As of December 31, 1998, the banks did not meet the minimum capital
requirements. The second largest bank (BIM) had negative net worth, while BHM had almost
fully used up its initial capital to finance operating costs. If the current performance trend
continues, BIM would be able to make enough provisions from its normal business operations
to cover the capitalization requirement (to bring the net worth to zero) before the end of this
fiscal year. In addition, BDM-SA's balance sheet includes, since the 1988 restructuring, about
FCFA 24 billion of bad loans, which are backed by an equivalent amount of government
deposits, and guarantees to ensure its solvency. The situation, however, as of the latest
BCEAO statistics (November 1999), shows all banks (except BIM) in compliance under this
ratio.
* The banking sector continues to suffer from a high level of non-performing loans. This is due in
part to a generally lax repayment culture, combined with stringent loan-classification rules by
the Commission Bancaire, lack of well-qualified personnel in banking operations (including
credit), insufficient management attention to loan collections, lenient application of the legal
framework by the Courts and judges, as well as government ownership and interference in the
banking sector. These issues will be addressed by training of bank staff at all levels, reforms of
the legal and regulatory environment and voluntary action-plans by all banks, under supervision
of the Ministry of Economy and Finance to accelerate collection of delinquent loans. The
privatization of all major financial institutions and the effectiveness (since January 1, 2000) of
the single licensing agreement of banks within WAEMU should increase competition and reduce
government interference.



6
*  Lending is mostly limited to short-term trade finance. This is due to the lack of term resources
and banks' concerns relating to inadequate legal and judiciary protection against delinquent
debtors;
*  There is a lack of qualified personnel and inadequate capacity in the training of staff at all
levels.
14.  As a result of a review of the banking system which was conducted by the Groupe de Reflexion sur
le Systeme Financier4 (GRSF), the government has prepared an action plan aimed at (a) privatizing banks
that are or have come under government control; (b) improving the legal environment of financial sector
operations; and (c) helping banks develop medium-term strategic plans, diversify their operations, and
improve their management and personnel skills.
15.  In light of the above, it is advised that specific recommendations for the treatment of bad loans on
the books of the banks be included. The recommended course of action is for banks to more intensively
pursue collection of their own bad loans, but to write-off those loans which are clearly not recoverable,
using loan-loss provisions created for that purpose.
16.  In the Non-Bank Financial Sector, the government has completed a full review of the insurance
sector and the social security and pension funds.
17.   With regard to the insurance sector, the review5 shows that the industry faces several problems:
*  Insurance companies have a very limited portfolio of products, with motor insurance
constituting the major line;
*  Companies lack well-trained, experienced management, and expense levels are so high that
business is not profitable;
*  Premium revenues for the sector, total only 8 billion FCFA against an estimated potential of
FCFA 60 billion;
*   Total technical provisions for the industry are below requirements by an estimated 3 billion
FCFA;
*  Arrears on premium  remittances by clients and their agents, amount to over 30 percent of
annual premium income; and
*  Insurance companies have a limited participation in the financial sector, with only a fraction of
their assets being placed in securities.
18.  Because the major part of their business in force is in the property/casualty lines, and life insurance
is so little-developed, companies are obliged to maintain a highly liquid position. This situation may also
be in part attributable to the immaturity of Mali's capital markets. Nevertheless, with 25 percent in
receivables, some of them representing premiums that are outstanding for long periods, and with 16
percent in property, the insurance companies are not today in a position to be active players in the
4 GRSF was a consultative body made of representatives of all banks, insurance companies, social security funds, the Central
Bank, microfinance institutions, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, private sector
companies and other private sector associations. The GRSF was dismantled in August 1999, after its mandate was satisfactorily
completed. GRSF's President was appointed Prime Minister of Mali in February 2000.
5Place du Marche des Assurances au sein des institutions financieres du Mali (January 1998). Etude sur le secteur des assurances
au Mali (April 1998) and Etude sur la protection sociale au Mali (June 1998).



7
financial markets. Perhaps, with new product development and an expansion into the life insurance and
savings markets, the situation can be improved.
19. The GRSF review estimates that the revenues of insurance companies could increase by more than
50 percent, if all insurance coverage required by law, such as car insurance were subscribed, and if
companies' product portfolios were expanded to include insurance in agriculture, external trade and
pension benefits. Consequently, the review recommends helping insurance companies improve their
marketing and management, expand their activities and prepare strategic development plans. In addition,
the review calls for the government to strengthen the Ministry of Economy and Finance department
involved in enforcing legal insurance requirements.
20.  Regarding retirement and social security funds, a 1996 studyp concluded that Caisse de Retraite du
Mali (CRM), with about 45,000 active contributors and 40,000 retirees, is plagued with deficits going
back to the early 1980s. The financial situation of the Institut National de Prdvoyance Sociale (INPS),
with about 95,000 active contributors and 26,000 retirees, is not as dramatic but still raises concem.
According to the study, "the pension system will require at least a subsidy of 0.1 percent of GDP per
annum for the next 35 years". Another study, by an independent consultant hired by the GRSF',
questions the long-term viability of these institutions because their expenses represent now between 140 -
240 percent of their revenues. The specific weaknesses identified by this later study are:
*  weak management, characterized by insufficient control over the collection of members'
contributions, over benefits granted that, in some cases, are undue and, mostly for the CRM,
inadequate accounting; and
*  payment of benefits to retirees that by far exceed their contributions; in both institutions, a
retiree at the age of 55 receives a pension that is about seven times higher than his/her total
contribution during active life and a retiree's benefits amount to the contribution of about three
active members.
21. The study made two main recommendations: (a) to improve the management of both institutions in
order to restore their long-term viability; and (b) to prepare and implement an action plan based on a
thorough review of both institutions' financial situation and accurate actuarial projections,using the
restored accounts through audit.
22.  Microfinance. Microfinance institutions in Mali encompass a wide diversity of structures,
depending on size of clientele, financial services, ownership structure, sources of funding, and stages of
development. They can be classified in three main categories: (a) mutual savings and loans institutions,
called institutions mutualistes, are those whose laws are determined by their members and whose main
activity is savings mobilization; (b) autonomous village banks, defined as institutions whose laws are
determined by the entire village; and (c) credit-only institutions, which are broadly modeled on the
Grameen Bank solidarity group system.
23.  The sector consists of about 30 formal microfinance institutions with some 500 branches (i.e.,
20,000 people per branch) operating in both urban and rural areas, including some of the most remote in
the country. This does not include a variety of informal savings and credit activities at the local level,
such as tontines. As of December 31, 1998, 24 of the largest Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) had a total
clientele of about 300,000 individuals, compared to about 230,000 in 1997. Women accounted for 45.6
percent of total clients in 1998, but make up virtually 100 percent of the clientele of credit-only
institutions. Microfinance activity has grown rapidly in recent years.  The amount of total loans
6Mali: Options for Pension Reform, the World Bank Pensions Group, September 1996.
7 Etude sur la protection sociale (June 1998).



8
outstanding increased from FCFA 9.4 billion (approximately US$15.8 million) in 1997 to FCFA 11.7
billion FCFA (US$19.6 million) in 1998, an increase of 24 percent. Total savings mobilized by
microfinance institutions was FCFA 7.9 billion (US$13.2 million) in 1998, representing a 22 percent
increase over the previous year. The average loan size was FCFA 77,000 (US$117).
24.  According to a 1997 review, undertaken by the Bank and the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ), the key strengths of MFIs in-Mali are their knowledge of the local environment in
which they operate and willingness to adapt products and methodologies to client needs. Average loan
recovery rate is reportedly higher than 95 percent. In addition, a number of institutions are making efforts
towards greater cost recovery, both as a result of donor pressure and increased competition among
themselves. To that end, a number of MFIs are charging interest rates that reflect the high costs of
transactions. Some institutions are seeking to transform themselves from donor-funded projects into
formal legal institutions. Last but not least, a small number of MFIs have been able to access commercial
sources of funds, albeit with the help of donor guarantees. In 1998, FCFA 2.9 billion (US$4.8 million) of
total credit extended was obtained through refinancing arrangements with commercial banks, primarily
through the Agricultural Development Bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole (BNDA)).
25.  However, the majority of microfinance institutions continue to be heavily dependent on donor
subsidies and are far from being financially sustainable due to their small size and high level of operating
expenses. Of the 24 largest MFIs, only three are operationally sustainable - that is, they are able to cover
operating costs with revenues. Most MFIs are characterized by weak institutional capacity, as reflected in
inadequate accounting and monitoring tools, the lack of viable management information systems, and the
absence of strategic planning. In the race to increase revenues, many MFIs are expanding geographic
coverage and outreach at the expense of operational efficiency and financial soundness. The overall
situation is that of a fast growing but very fragile sector. It is estimated that a new MFI emerges every six
months. Unless there are concerted efforts at institution-building, there is a risk that many MFIs will
continue to grow without developing the procedures, systems and financial and management skills
necessary to deliver financial services to the poor on a sound and commercially viable basis. The inability
of MFIs to operate profitably will also make it difficult for them to obtain a large proportion of their funds
from commercial banks, thereby increasing their dependence on donors. There is, therefore, a significant
need for continued technical assistance and training with respect to institutional strengthening.
26.  Given the fact that the Loi du Projet d'Appui a la Reglementation sur lesMutuelles d'Epargne et
de Credit (PARMEC) is a regional law, changes to the legal and regulatory framework are being
addressed by the BCEAO in collaboration with national governments and with the assistance of bilateral
and multilateral development agencies. A study, financed by a consortium of donor, is currently
underway to explore the legal options of non-mutualist MFIs in BCEAO countries that are seeking to
change their status from projects to autonomous institutions. The results of the study are expected to form
the basis of discussions with the authorities at the regional level.
27. A third major weakness in the microfinance sector is the limited capacity of the government agency
in charge of supervising microfinance institutions. Within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a unit
called the Cellule d'Appui et de Suivi des Systemes Financiers Decentralises (CAS/SFD) was created to
oversee the enforcement of the PARMEC Law. In addition to monitoring the application of the PARMEC
Law, the CAS/SFD is also responsible for licensing and auditing MFIs, helping them understand
supervisory requirements, collecting basic data related to outreach and financial performance, and
monitoring the development of the microfinance sector in general. However, its ability to carry out these
functions is quite limited, given the small size of its staff and the rapidly growing number of MFIs.
9 The donor institutions involved in the study are the USAID, CGAP, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the World
Bank (through the BCEAO Regional Project).



9
Strengthening the supervisory and monitoring capacity of the CAS/SFD and improving its ability to deal
with and assist different types of MFIs are therefore an urgent priority.
28. Following the World Bank/GTZ review, the government adopted in February 1998 a.microfinance
development strategy during a national workshop attended by all Malian stakeholders and various donor
agencies, including the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Consultative Group
to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), and others. All participants pledged their support to the government to help
implement this strategy. The national microfinance strategy calls for action in six key areas: (a)
strengthening of the CAS/SFD; (b) strengthening microfinance institutions through the creation of a
professional association that would serve as an advocacy group, disseminate best practices and provide
demand-based, capacity-building services; (c) training of MFIs; (d) establishing of a national
microfinance fund; (e) extending microfinance coverage to the poorest areas of the country; and (f)
strengthening the linkages and synergy between MFIs and the formal financial sector. To ensure
coordination among the various stakeholders and monitor the implementation of the national
microfinance strategy, a Consultative Group for Microfinance was established in 1998. The Consultative
Group consists of representatives of MFIs, banking institutions, the government and donors, including the
World Bank. The Government Microfinance Supervisory Unit, CAS/SFD, functions as the secretariat of
the Consultative Group.
29.  The Legal Framework affecting the Financial Sector. The legal issues affecting the financial
system can be grouped into two categories. The first category includes the judicial aspects of organizing
the financial sector; the second concerns legal issues within the system itself.
30.  Judiciary Issues include those that originate in the functioning of the judiciary itself as well as in
the practices of ancillary structures associated with the judicial system. These include:
-  The slowness of the courts. A considerable amount of time can pass between the time a suit is
filed and the rendering of a definitive verdict. Apart from the dilatory tactics used by the litigants,
the way in which the courts are organized explains the delays.
*  Notification of verdicts and time limits for appeals. Organisation pour !'Harmonisation du Droit
des Affaires en Afrique (OHADA) regulations on the overturning of judges' verdicts and,
especially, the right to appeal, stipulate that verdicts must be announced prior to any appeal, and
also specify, for the various appeals processes, time limits that are different from those provided
under Malian law. According to Malian law, one does not even need to wait for a verdict to be
announced before entering an appeal. In order to avoid practices that could potentially harm the
interests of the parties concerned, the Malian procedural code needs to be brought into sync with
OHADA regulations.
*  Existence and reliability of records. The Uniform Acts of OHADA require that certain records
crucial to the proper functioning of businesses be maintained. These include in particular a trade
registry and a registry of property loans which must contain all information concerning a
company's existence and legal status, as well as on its loan guarantees. It is thus crucial to be able
to ensure that these records exist at the jurisdictional level, that they are properly kept, and that the
information they contain is accurate. Such verification is vital for the development of guarantees
and, by extension, for the development of credit.
*  Verdicts. Parties (including businesses) going through the courts have often had considerable
trouble in understanding the scope of a judgement, or even the judge's reasoning in a case. These
problems can be very harmful to the interests of those involved in legal action.



10
31.  Legal aspects include all problems that would appear to hinder the expansion of credit and financial
intermediation. These include:
* Rights and responsibilities emerging from guarantee contracts. It is important for all
protagonists, especially for agents of the financial system, to thoroughly understand all guarantees
in terms of their binding nature, the laws upon which they are based, and the rights and
responsibilities that they entail for those directly involved, as well as for third parties. In addition, a
person requiring the assistance of the financial system, is most often completely unaware of the
legal implications of the guarantee contract that he or she is signing. There is therefore a need to
develop clear and explicit forms that spell out the legal implications of the guarantee contract used
as a security agreement.
* The cost of guarantees. Guarantees, due to the way in which they are set up and implemented,
entail exorbitant costs and lengthen the debt repayment period, thus increasing the risk of non-
recovery. Although they have made laws more consistent, the Uniform Acts of OHADA have failed
to take into account these costs.
* The security contract. OHADA has been an innovator in this area, since the Uniform Acts require
that regular information on securities be provided. This represents progress, but may not be enough
especially if the information is not provided regularly. If such is the case, the avenues of legal
recourse are unclear.
* Dating of payments. Experience has shown that the dating of payments, although a common
practice, is poorly understood by financiers and their customers, as well as by magistrates
themselves, in terms of its nature and impacts. This lack of understanding deprives the practice of
dating payments, which is a form of retiring an obligation, of much of its effectiveness.
* Collective guarantees and the use of collateral. One of the characteristic traits of Malian culture
is the individual's belonging to a collectivity to which he or she owes loyalty and which is in turn
loyal to that individual. This form of collective solidarity can constitute a guarantee in the sense that
it can be used to achieve a satisfactory level of debt recovery. Certain systems of credit and debt
recovery are already based on this type of collective guarantee. The individual receives the loan, but
the entire collectivity is involved and answerable for its repayment. This system seems to have had
satisfactory results, especially in connection with village associations and credit organizations such
Yeredeme or Misseni. Aside from the fact that current experiments with this should be expanded,
the financial system could probably derive more benefit from reliance upon traditional structures
based on collective solidarity, and could extend the practice to include small and medium
enterprises. Studies of this type of guarantee have demonstrated its effectiveness from several
standpoints. Nevertheless, it suffers from a general lack of regulation that needs to be developed in
a manner compatible with OHADA regulations. There is a particular need for effective solutions in
cases where the collateral no longer exists.
* Inventory as collateral. OHADA's Uniform Acts provide for and regulate this type of guarantee,
but its actual implementation could prove unexpectedly difficult, especially as regards the
requirement that this guarantee must always exist despite the turnover and replenishment of stocks.
* Revocation of occupancy permits (OPs). These administrative titles for temporary property
occupancy are considered personal estate and are often used as security deposits. OHADA rules
stipulate, in rather problematic manner, that they can only be called in the event of the forced sale
of a building. This new regulation is contrary to current Malian practice and would not appear to
benefit financial establishments, which rely upon OPs for a good number of their guarantees.



11
* Labor law. Businesses very often have trouble determining what law is applicable when there is a
choice between the law contained in the regulations and that which is spelled out in collective
agreements. More generally, businesses have a poor understanding of labor law and social security,
and find themselves subject to heavy penalties and/or obliged to pay large sums to the social
security fund, either as fines or to make up for unpaid social security contributions. In order to
further the understanding of the legal landscape in this area, which is in any case not above
reproach, it is important to conduct a study of these regulations. The study would point up
strengths as well as any anomalies and imperfections in the law. The results of the study should be
brought to the attention of enterprises by means of a seminar.
* Labor tribunals. Labor tribunals also appear not to be functioning to the satisfaction of those
going through the courts, since employees as well as employers complain about them. Apart from
their operational difficulties and slow processing, it would appear that the verdicts themselves are
not being accepted. It would therefore be useful, for the proper functioning of the courts and in the
interest of businesses, to conduct a study of labor tribunals that would result in concrete
recommendations for improving the effectiveness of those courts.
* Government/Business Relations
(a)   Netting of debts. In the business world, many enterprises attribute their difficulties to the
fact that the government is itself a bad debtor that at the same time does not hesitate to use
coercion to collect its own outstanding loans. OHADA's Uniform Acts now provide for the
possibility of multilateral netting between the debts of public entities (due to borrowers who
in turn owe money to the banks) and those of private individuals. Most businesses are
unaware of this provision. Research is needed on the scope of public debts, their impact on
businesses, and the existence and extent of the possibility of netting. Such a study could be
the subject of a seminar and could be published in the form of a brochure.
(b)  Bank securities in the area of customs. Economic operators often resort to bank securities
to facilitate their export operations. Bank securities have been, in more ways than one, a
source of trouble for businesses as well as for bankers. All legal texts concerning such
securities should be brought together, the legal regime controlling them should be clarified,
and recommendations for improvement should be made.
32.  The legal and regulatory component of the project is specifically designed to address the legal
issues affecting financial sector by putting a focus on the judiciary, legal and government/business
relationship issues.
3. Sector Issues to be Adressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
33.  Of the issues and constraints discussed in the previous section, the project is designed to address
the following: (a) government interference in the financial sector will be dealt with through. the
privatization of the capital and management of key financial institutions; (b) the non-compliance with key
prudential regulations by both banks and insurance companies will be addressed through the
strengthening of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MoEF) to enable it to effect a better follow-up on
the recommendations of the supervisory authorities which are the Commission Bancaire and CIMA; (c)
the high level of non-performing loans is to be reduced through a combination of technical assistance to
improve the institutional capabilities of credit institutions for a better assessment of credit risks and
collection of bad assets, and improvement in the context in which the legal framework is applied; (d) the
transparency in the financial conditions of non-bank financial institutions (INPS, CRM and insurance
companies) is to be improved with a better quality of available financial information that would result
from audited data; and (e) the issues identified in the legal framework will be addressed through the



12
strengthening of the local capacity of the legal professionals to ensure that OHADA is effectively
understood and applied. A strategic choice has been made to leave outside the scope of this project,
issues dealing with the inappropriateness of selected prudential ratios (i.e., the ratio of portfolio structure)
and the fundamental changes in the legal framework. As Mali is a member of the WAEMU and an
OHADA country, such issues are beyond the scope of this project and are addressed at the regional level.



13
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
Compon,snts                     Category   Indicative Cost   % of        Baisk      % of Bank
Total   Financing    Financing
._________       (tJSSm)                 (USSM)
1.0  Restructuring and Privatization of the Commercial Institution   8,768,000        38.1   7,201,000         82
Banking Sector:                                  Building
The project would finance (a) legal and advisory
services to assist the government to prepare the
evaluation of the banks to be privatized, prepare a
privatization strategy, determine the most appropriate
privatization method, establish the list of potential
investors, prepare the prospectus and bidding
documents; analyze the bids, recommend the selection
of the most appropriate investor and close the
transaction; and (b) specialized bank diagnostics or
audits, on a case-by-case basis and as needed, to
support the government in its efforts to restructure or
privatize the banks, by conducting customized
analyses of selected banks.
The project would also finance assistance to the
government to explore ways to improve the financial
sector through specific studies as needs arise. The
terms of reference of such studies will be subject to
prior IDA review and approval.
Assistance to the Malian Professional Bankers
Association: The project would finance, on a 50
percent cost-sharing basis: (a) consultants to help
design and implement the training of staff of banks
and non-bank financial institutions; (b) refurbishing of
the local training center; (c) consultancy and advisory
services to ensure well- funding at the national level of
the regional shared modern inter-bank settlement
system; (d) design and feasibility studies of shared
products useful to the entire Malian banking
profession and which will enhance the efficiency of
their operations; (e) some equipment for the
Association   Professionnelle  des   Banques  et
Etablissements Financiers (APBEF) and the training
center; and (f) training materials.
Assistance for Capital Market Development: In order
to facilitate the privatization of financial institutions,
the project would provide financial support to the local
branch of the Bourse Regionale des Valeurs
Mobilieres (BRVM) and to the local Societe de
Gestion et d'Intermediation (SGI) to raise awareness
of stock market regulations and policies. The project
would also finance specialized investment banking
advisory services to help the local government, local
banks, SGI and the local branch of BRVM in
facilitating the issuance of bonds and equity issues and
listing of the local companies on the regional stock
market. The project would finally provide financial
support for training of staff of the local branches of
BRVM and SGI. SGI is expected to become
sustainable within five years, at which time support
from the government, will no longer be necessary.



14
.0  Strengthening of Non-Bank Financial Institutions:   Institution    3,729, 00          16    3,63,000           98
Building
The  project would  finance  (a)  financial  and
institutional audits of Institut National de Prevoyance
Sociale (INPS), CRM and CDC in order to identify
immediate measures to limit losses and improve
management, accounting, and procedures with a view
to prepare actuarial studies for INPS and CRM; (b)
financial and institutional audits and to prepare action
plans for insurance companies to identify more
precisely their shortcomings and advisory services to
promote their participation in the integrated financial
sector development and capital market (non-viable
insurance companies will be either recapitalized by
their shareholders or closed by the authorities); (c)
management information systems and training of staff
necessary to improve the efficiency of INPS, CRM,
and CDC; (d) technical assistance and advisory
services to implement the recommendations of the
actuarial studies; and (e) technical assistance to help
insurance companies improve their management and
prepare their strategic development plans.
Assistance to the Professional Insurance Association
The project would finance: (a) consultants to help
design and implement the training of non-bank
financial  institutions  staff in  conjunction  with
Association   Professionnelle   des   Banques   et
Etablissements Financiers (APBEF); (b) the audit of
all the insurance companies which allow the
transparency in their financial condition and the
closure of insolvent institutions; (c) advisory services
to prepare and implement strategic business plans for
the strengthening of the insurance sector; (d)
equipment for the Professional Insurance Association
and the training center; (e) training materials; and (f)
Implementation of the training program for insurance
companies, on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis.
3.0   Strengthening of the Microfinance Sector:          Institution    1,983,000           9     1,930,000          97
Building
This component will finance (a) technical assistance,
consultant services and equipment necessary to
strengthen the capacity of the CAS/SFD to supervise
and monitor MFIs more efficiently and to play a
catalytic role for improvements in the legal and
regulatory environment for microfinance; (b) technical
assistance  to  the  professional  association   of
microfinance institutions to develop capacity building
through information sharing, dissemination of best
practices, networking, and other demand-based
services; (c) technical assistance to the National
Consultative Group for microfinance to monitor and
coordinate microfinance strategy among the various
stakeholders; and (d) training of microfinance
institutions.
4.0   Regulatory  and  Legal  Environment  of  the  Capacity           3,466,000            15      3,466,000        100
Financial Sector:                                   Building
This project component will finance consultancy
studies and technical assistance aiming at helping the
government to (a) identify in the regulatory framework
adopted at the national level, constraints to the



15
;   components'- -------  -- --::::     Categdry -    Ind-ieavcrC-ost   % of  Bank .          of Bank
Total   Financing       Financing
-.__ _   tUSim?          _        (U'SSn)"
development of financial sector operationTs an   ew
financial instruments or institutions, and effectively
implement measures to remove these constraints; these
concern specifically, fiscal regimes applying to the
operations of financial institutions (including leasing
companies) and instruments and legal dispositions
specific to financial sector operations; (b) conform the
national laws with the laws enacted at the regional
level by OHADA in respect of credit disciplinary
environment; (c) reform some national regulations
whose implementation is within the authority of the
Malian Government; and (d) adequately implement
regulations adopted at the OHADA level, especially
with regard to loan guarantees, loan recovery, and
incentives  for  new   financial  institutions  and
instruments.
In particular, the following activities will be financed
under the project:
(a) training for all staff in financial institutions on the
changes brought in by the OHADA legislation -
delivered according to the field of activity of staff;
(b) a study will define the regulation required to
include a trained legal expert among the staff of every
financial institution receiving training, in order to
supervise and follow-up on the application of the
rules;
(c) studies will be canried out outlining the feasibility
of: (i)   acceptable  credit approval processes,
complying with all regional guidelines and laws,
applicable to credit institutions, according to
loan/credit category; (ii) establishing a mutual
repayment conditionality  among  small business
borrowers; (iii) keeping accounts for selected entities
in local languages; (iv) identifying changes required
in the current regulatory or legal framework, if any, to
facilitate leasing; and (v) carrying out tests of the
recommendations of all such studies on a pilot basis;
(d)  a review  of existing  anti-trust and  unfair
competition regulations, an assessment of their
compatibility with the Actes Uniformes of OHADA, a
proposal of the statutes for an independent anti-trust
regulatory body, the establishment of such body and
the training of its staff;
(e)   a review of the needs of the Cour de Comptes to
function efficiently and the establishment of an action
plan to address these needs and implement the action
plan;
(f)  reorganization of wourt-appointed legal experts
- allowing access to court only for members of
organized professional orders;
(g)   assessment of the efficiency, reliability and
conformity with the law of the commercial, land title
and mining registries, and proposition of remedial
action, as warranted; and



16
Ce~~bp4~iwst~  Ca~.gary  ~~It~  ~       ~4~f      1I~nk      % of ookk
(h) implementationof recommendationsof the (RSF
studies regarding the legal and regulatory reforms,
affecting financial institutions.
5.0  Project Implementation  and  Strengthening  of Project       3,034,000          13     2,794,000       92
Ministry of Economy and Finance:                Manage-
ment and
(a) A significant portion of funds will go towards  Capacity
strengthening the capacity in the departments of the Building
Ministry of Economy and Finance in charge of
banking, insurance, pension funds and microfinance as
well as the legal and regulatory environment for the
financial sector. Consultants will be hired to train
selected staff working on financial sector issues at the
Ministry of Economy and Finance; and
(b) The project will also provide support to the
Financial Sector Policy and Advisory Unit (FSPAU)
in the execution of the project: operating costs;
vehicles and office equipment and supplies. The
project will finance specifically a Project Coordinator,
Project Component Managers, an Accountant and an
Administrative Assistant, a Driver, and one car
assigned to provide support in the implementation and
coordination of the project activities. Necessary office
equipment for the project implementation unit and
particularly the Project Component Managers will be
also financed under this component.
6.0  Contingencies and Unallocated                                   2,098,000       9       1,905,000      91
Total                                                          23,077,000     100.0   20,955,000       91
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
34.   The proposed project will address only regulations affecting the financial sector that are adopted at
the national level. These concern mainly the regulations and incentives applying to the creation and
operation of new financial institutions or instruments. Regulations adopted at the regional level are
beyond the scope of this project.
3. Benefits and Target Population
35.   The expected project benefits are: (a) a healthy and viable financial system, able to efficiently
support the economic development of the country through improved domestic resource mobilization and
more effective financial intermediation; (b) increased access to efficient and higher quality financial
services mostly for financing investment and lower transaction costs; (c) reduced macro-economic risk
through privatization and restructuring of the financial situation of the social security and pension funds;
and (d) increased assistance to low-income entrepreneurs through the development of an efficient and
sustainable microfinance sector.
36.   The Financial Sector Development Project is expected to enhance economic growth by improving
private investment, enhancing access to quality financial services and products, and increasing
productivity. It would benefit three broad target groups:
* Government. The project would help the Government of Mali (GOM) implement its
financial institutions restructuring and privatization program, which is at the core of its



17
economic reforms efforts supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
The completion of this program would result in: (a) an alleviated fiscal burden of non-
performing financial institutions on public finances; (b) increased fiscal revenues from
privatization proceeds and their maximization from transparent and competitive transaction
policies; and (c) improved foreign direct investment from privatization opportunities, which
would also help improve the balance of payments.
*  Business community. The project will benefit the business community through, inter alia:
(a) new business opportunities created by the privatization of the banks; (b) lower
transactions costs resulting from efficient financial services; (c) greater access to credit and
other quality financial services and products; and (d) increasing sophistication of financial
products through strengthened competition.
*  Local population. In the short term, employment in the financial sector might shrink as a
result of possible retrenchment of excess staff in institutions to be privatized or restructured.
However, in the medium term, the project would lead to a reduction in overall unemployment
through more rapid growth of the private sector and its direct effect on the creation of more
job opportunities. In addition, the quality of financial services and products available to the
local population would be significantly improved. Support to microfinance institutions will
increase the number of poor working people's access to finance.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Period: Five years, September 2000 through April 2006
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT FOR THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1.Project Coordinator
-r~-
Comlotteot M_nagsr   j _pootnt HaIT  . Compont 1Mapr    Compotitna Manapr
,;nking S  ec1   .f  Mlwna                       Lcgd 4 Reglatiwry
4r                 ,_
rersettts |v2 Anf hs             | |  I Analyst       AssiStar,t     
37.perojctExcuion and       Coordig TeSPUinain Thesprojectl will baoriaigte implementedb  Satio unde the
various components of the project in accordance with sound financial management practices, including



18
procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing of accounts; and (b) monitoring the implementation
of the project and furnishing reports to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the International
Development Agency (IDA) on progress made in project implementation. The FSPAU will consist of a
Project Coordinator, four Project Component Managers, an Accountant, and Administrative Staff. The
Project Component Managers will be located in each of the departments of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance in charge of banking, insurance, pension funds, and microfinance activities. The functions of the
Project Coordinator are articulated in the terms of reference.
38.  The FSPAU has two layers of personnel: (a) the project management personnel, specifically
recruited on a competitive basis, to handle the day-to-day management of the project; and (b) the
permanent Ministry of Economy and Finance personnel who are responsible for the formulation, where
appropriate, and monitoring in banking, insurance, pension funds and microfinance. The legal component
will be implemented in close coordination with the Consultative Group for the Financial Sector (Cellule
de Reflexion et de Suivi de la Reforme du Droit des Affaires (CRSRDA)) within the Ministry of Justice.
Only the project management personnel will be paid under the project as IDA procedures do not allow for
civil servants to be paid with IDA credit proceeds. Since the ministry lacks appropriate personnel and
adequate procedures to effectively assume these tasks, it was agreed with the government during appraisal
that a project management team including a full-time project manager, an accountant and procurement
staff would be established before negotiations of the credit. The role of a strengthened Ministry of
Economy and Finance will be to ensure that recommendations of the Commission Bancaire and CIMA
are implemented by banks and insurance companies within the timeframe set by the regional supervisory
authorities.
39.  Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The FSPAU to be established
within the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for the overall coordination of project
administration, financial management, and reporting, including the actual production of periodic financial
reports and annual financial statement, and the arrangement of audits. The project financial management
system, including accounting, internal controls systems and clear, detailed reporting procedures would be
established and satisfactorily tested prior to negotiations of the Credit to ensure that they meet the IDA-
minimum financial reporting requirements. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would audit project
accounts, special accounts, the SOEs, and PMRs in accordance with international auditing standards.
Audit reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Since
the project financial management system is new and untested, it has been agreed that it will adopt the
traditional SOE-based disbursement method for the first two years of implementation. Meanwhile, a
time-bound action plan, not exceeding 18 months, has been agreed with the government to reinforce the
project financial management system as required to effect a smooth transition to PMR-based
disbursement method in compliance with the IDA Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
During that period however, the project will, in addition to the standard financial statements produce
quarterly PMRs, include (a) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) Uses of Funds by Project
Activity; (c) Special Account Statement; (d) Contract Expenditure Report - Goods and Works; (e)
Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants; (f) Procurement Management Report - Goods and Works; and
(g) Procurement Management Report - Consultants.
40.  Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangement. Project reporting arrangement will include: (a)
periodic progress reports established on the basis of the Project Implementation Plan, logical framework
and agreed performance indicators; (b) bi-annual supervision missions; (c) joint government/Bank annual
progress reviews and mid-term review; and (d) completion report to be transmitted by the government to
IDA within six months of the closing of the project. The annual and mid-term reviews will be conducted
jointly between the government and IDA on the basis of a report prepared by implementation managers,
in such a manner as to: (a) assess progress in the implementation of key actions and performance
indicators (see Annex I); (b) verify the continued validity of the design assumptions in light of
implementation experience and evolving environment; and (c) identify remedial actions that might prove



19
necessary to achieve the project's objectives. The project account will be subjected to a semi-annual and
an annual independent audit by a firm acceptable to IDA.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
41. A number of alternative projects were considered. One option would be to provide IDA assistance
through an operation consisting of a technical assistance component for capacity building and a budgetary
support component to help the government face the cost of restructuring or liquidating government-
owned financial institutions. In the past, most of the banking sector restructuring projects supported by
the Bank in West Africa were carried out as components of adjustment projects. In 1988-1989, when the
BCEAO undertook far-reaching policy reforms, a freestanding financial sector adjustment operation was
approved to restructure the banking system. In Senegal, Mali, Niger and Mauritania, bank restructuring
was part of structural adjustment projects aimed at improving macro economic and sectoral policies.
42.  In the case of this project, an adjustment operation is not justified at this stage because (a) in
agreement with the GRSF, bailing out distressed institutions with government funds should be avoided if
possible because it would amount to rewarding bad banking and management practices; (b) the
government failed to meet the conditionalities for HIPIC decision point in November 1999; and (c)
current analysis does not justify an adjustment operation. IDA is supporting the privatization of BMCD
which is presently underway. In the event that in the course of project implementation, budgetary
contributions to restructure financial institutions (e.g., BIM) become necessary as part of the privatization
efforts, we will explore alternative financing vehicles.
Table 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies
Sector                   Project       Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Private Sector Development Issues:
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                    Private Sector
Assistance Project       S               S
Other development agencies
Several microfmance schemes financed
by bilateral donors such as GTZ,
CIDA, European Union, UNDP,
USAID, and CFD
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
2. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
43. The design of this project draws on the lessons learned from experience in the delivery of technical
assistance and in support of financial sector reforms to many countries, including Mali.
(a) One very important lesson learned from the ongoing Private Sector Assistance Project
(PSAP) is that a participatory approach is crucial for adequate preparation, as well as
implementation of a project. The problems that the PSAP has encountered stemmed mostly



20
from the lack of ownership or consensus on the project's objectives. To avoid this pitfall
again, the proposed project was prepared with the full participation of the Groupe de
Reflexion sur le Secteur Financier (GRSF), a consultative body composed of representatives
of financial sector stakeholders. The GRSF had set up working groups including
representatives of the financial sector, of the private sector at large and the government. It has
undertaken various studies with the Bank's assistance, with a view to proposing to the
government and the Bank an overall action plan for the financial sector. All activities to be
financed under the proposed project were agreed on during logical framework sessions
attended by all the key stakeholders and organized by the GRSF using the recommendations
of previous studies as a basis for discussions.
(b) The lessons learned from the Bank's experience in financial sector operations, particularly
with regard to restructuring banks and financial institutions, are the following: (i)
government's full commitment is essential; (ii) non-viable institutions should be liquidated
rather than restructured; and (iii) preservative measures should not include recapitalization
prior to privatizing institutions. In terms of sequencing, lessons learned indicate that
improvement of banks (or financial institutions) regulations and supervision should precede
the restructuring. In the case of Mali, actions have been undertaken at the regional level to
improve regulation and supervision. In terms of action plan preparation, attention is being
paid to the identification of measurable goals and benchmarks to assess implementation
progress; and
(c) Lessons learned from experience in technical assistance projects. A key ingredient is the
building of ownership as mentioned above to ensure that the parties concerned are committed
to the project and that the TA to be provided will result from a real need rather than being
supply-driven. The participatory approach for the preparation of the proposed project was
reinforced during project pre-appraisal when the GRSF organized, with Bank assistance, a
ZOPP (Ziel-Orienterte Projekt Planung) workshop with the participation of all project
beneficiaries to: (a) increase accountability and transparency; and (b) agree on performance
indicators to monitor the process of capacity building assistance delivery, its outputs,
outcomes and impact rather than focusing only on the monitoring of performance inputs.
3. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
44. The government has requested the Bank's support to implement its strategy for strengthening the
financial sector. The government, as well as representatives of financial institutions and private sector,
agreed to establish the GRSF, which was created in August 1997. Foreign consultants were provided to
the GRSF to prepare a microfinance strategy, which was approved during a national workshop in
February 1998.
45.  Since then, the GRSF, with the help of foreign and local consultants, has completed a review of the
banking and insurance sectors, the social security and pension funds, and the legal environment affecting
the financial sector. Final reports were promptly submitted to and discussed with the Bank. Important
elements contained in the letter of sector development policy are the government's commitment to fully
disengage from the financial sector, the desire to overhaul the social security system, and the
determination to withdraw all government officials from an active role in the sector. During the pre-
appraisal mission, the govemment reiterated its commitment to privatize the financial sector and
strengthen its institutions. This commitment is clearly evident in the letter of sector development policy
(Annex 8), which articulates the government's vision for the development of the financial sector and
outlines concrete actions to be implemented within a realistic timetable. During the ZOPP workshops held
9 Bank Restructuring in Africa: Lessons Learned from Selected Case Studies.



21
during project pre-appraisal, representatives of financial institutions showed a good understanding and
ownership of project activities and agreed that assistance under the project would be provided on a
demand-driven and cost-sharing basis. Broad participation by all stakeholders and the level of discussions
during the ZOPP workshops were clear indications of the borrower's commitment and ownership of the
project. The new cabinet arising from the February 2000 reshuffle is headed by the former President of
GRSF who is a former BCEAO-Mali National Director and a former IMF staff member. He has provided
assurance of his full support for a smooth implementation of the project's activities. Nevertheless, the
urgent appointment of a high-level project coordinator with strong support from the Minister of Economy
and Finance, will be a critical test of ownership within the government to pursue the necessary steps and
activities of the project and to effect the lasting changes needed to restructure and strengthen the financial
system.
4. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
46.  The World Bank has been involved in the Malian financial sector since 1988 when, along with the
Agence Francaise de Ddveloppement, it helped restructure, through a structural adjustment credit, a major
bank, BDM-SA and a postal and savings institution, Cheques Postaux du Mali (CPM), which were
virtually bankrupt. At that time, BDM-SA was financially restructured and partly privatized with the
share of the government in its capital reduced to 20 percent while a foreign partner, Banque Marocaine du
Commerce Exterieur, took over the management of the bank along with a 20 percent share of its capital.
CPM, an extension of the government treasury, was established as a bank under the control of the
BCEAO, Societe des cheques postaux et de la caisse d'epargne (SCPCE), which was later transformed
into a housing bank (BHM), in which the government and its subdivisions hold a controlling stake.
47.  The Bank is seen by both the local counterparts and the donor community as having credibility in
the field of financial sector reform in Mali and elsewhere in Africa. The value added by the Bank support
consists of (a) the provision of technical expertise and experience in financial sector operations for which
the Africa Region of the World Bank has recently developed a strategy; and (b) the ability to mobilize or
leverage other donor contributions as was recently achieved for the microfinance component. In addition,
as in the case of the microfinance strategy, the Bank can be an important catalyst of financial and
technical support from other donors. At least one of them (the French Development Agency) has
expressed interest in participating in the proposed project and is being solicited for possible co-financing.
E: Issues Requiring Special Attention
48.  Issues requiring special attention are:
* enforcement of prudential regulations of financial institutions and sanctioning of non-
compliance;
* careful monitoring of several banks;
* enforcement of prudential regulations for insurance companies;
* remedying noted financial management deficiencies in the lNPS and CRM and developing a
broader strategy for social security and pension reforms; and
*  developing guidelines and enforcing regulations for the microfinance companies.
1. Economic Assessment
49.  It is virtually impossible to quantify the expected economic returns to a technical assistance
operation of this nature. However, given the noted critical importance of efficient financial intermediation
to economic growth, and in view of the low level of domestic savings in Mali, it is expected that the
economic benefits of improving financial intermediation and potentially increasing the level of savings



22
and the efficiency of transforming such savings to productive investment, will far outweigh the financial
costs (Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary).
50.  Project Costs are expected to be: (a) direct costs of US$21.0 million to be repaid to IDA (plus
interest over the life of the loan); (b) direct costs by the government and the beneficiaries of US$2.0
million; and (c) indirect costs associated with further financial sector restructuring as the restructuring or
liquidation of the government-owned banks and the restructuring of the social security and pension funds
might require substantial funding.
51.  Project Benefits are expected to be: (a) increased savings mobilized in the short term through banks
and non-bank deposit-taking institutions, and mobilized in the medium term through contractual savings
institutions; (b) increased efficiency of intermediation in the banking sector as measured by lower
operational costs and spreads; and (c) increased solvency and efficiency of non-bank financial institutions
including pension funds and insurance companies.
2. Technical Assessment
52.  The project is technically sound and consistent with the CAS agenda of developing a sound and
diversified financial sector. The proposed project has been designed in such a way as to balance breadth
and focus. Support to different sub-sector of the financial sector has been envisaged to ensure maximum
effect. The following factors were taken into consideration in designing the specific technical
interventions: (a) capacity building should only exist in the context of a well-considered and articulated
business plan, such that the support reinforces the objectives of capacity development of the individual
sub-sector; and (b) proposed training has tried to leverage the use of foreign experts coming to Mali.
3. Institutional Assessment
53.  Executing Agency and Project Management. The Office of the Minister of Economy and
Finance will assume the overall implementation responsibility of the project. Within the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, project management responsibilities will be assigned to the FSPAU. The Project
Coordinator, Project Component Managers and the administrative staff will be selected on a competitive
basis, and will be paid with proceeds from the IDA credit.
54.  Since the ministry lacks appropriate personnel and adequate procedures to effectively assume these
tasks, it was agreed with the government during pre-appraisal that a project management team, would be
initiated. The project will provide further technical assistance to the respective department managers and
their staff on an ongoing basis to ensure effective and timely project implementation.
55.  To ensure timely and efficient implementation of the preparatory activities of the project, an
Adviser to the Minister of Economy and Finance was designated to handle the preparation of action plans
and decisions to be taken by the government until a project coordinator was recruited.
4. Social Assessment
56.  Although this project does not entail interventions targeted at specific social groups, it can have a
disproportionate impact on low-income groups for the following reason: small depositors in the banking
system may be disproportionately at risk due to institutional insolvency or fraud because they are not
able, under existing conditions, to adequately assess the risk of banks in which they have deposits. It is
expected that, with a strengthened financial system, small depositors will be better protected against
insolvency risks. In addition, although not targeted at specific social groups, the project should have the
following beneficial impact on low-income groups: (a) support to microfinance institutions will increase



23
the working poor's access to finance and contribute to poverty alleviation; (b) reforms of the national
social security system will provide a steady income to retirees; and (c) an efficient banking sector will
offer a broad range of financial products and services, satisfying the needs of clients, including the poor
and the women.
5. Environmental Assessment
a. Environmental issues: None
b. Environmental category:    A [ ]  B [ ]  C [x]
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating: This is a technical assistance project for the financial sector
which will not have any direct or indirect environmental impact.
d. Status of any other environmental studies: Not applicable
e. Resettlement: There are no resettlement issues from this project
6. Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
57.  To ensure full ownership of the project by key stakeholders in Mali's financial sector, the project
was prepared with the full participation of the GRSF, a consultative body composed of representatives of
all stakeholders of the financial sector (Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Industry, the
Central bank, all commercial banks, clients of financial institutions, consumers, private entrepreneurs,
insurance companies, pension funds, and microfinance institutions and their clients). By the end of the
mission, the team had carried out Ziel-Orienterte Projekt Planung (ZOPP) seminars involving various
stakeholders, with the aim of defining the logical framework for the main three project components: the
components' expected results, the activities to be carried out during the project, criteria and means for
evaluation of progress achieved, objectives, key assumptions to be met, and budget.
b. Other key stakeholders
58.  Other stakeholders are donors other than the World Bank. All donors active in Mali in the area of
private and financial sector development have been and will continue to be invited to provide their
opinion and advice on the proposed project. Other donors active in Mali's financial sector include GTZ,
CIDA, the European Union, UNDP, USAID, IFAD, and AFD. Most donors have already pledged their
support for the implementation of the national microfinance strategy. Consultation with all these donors
has been continuous during project preparation and will be pursued during implementation.
F: 'Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
59.  The proposed project supports a process that is aimed at achieving a sustainable result, namely a
sound and efficient financial system. Long-term sustainability of the institutions concerned by the project
is of crucial importance. All financial institutions are expected to become viable at the end of the project.
Factors that could affect the sustainability of project benefits include lax supervision and /or regulatory



24
forbearance of financial institutions. The technical assistance to be provided by the project, the sound
track record of the regional Banking Commission and its recent efforts to adapt regulations to the realities
of the market, should alleviate this risk by promoting prudent risk-taking by the institutions.
Institutionalization of such a process as well as sustainable macro-economic policies would shield Mali
from severe economic turbulence. Arrangements to provide assistance to individual institutions are made
contingent upon satisfactory implementation of a restructuring plan. The privatization of financial
institutions should provide, as was the case of Caisse Nationale d'Assurance et Reassurance (CNAR), at
least some of the resources needed for restructuring. In the case of liquidation, budgetary contributions
will be needed.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitnimization Measure
From Output to Development Objectives
*   The regional body in charge of bank supervision is not efficient      M           *   Inspection  reports  of the  Banking
and does not promptly enforce corrective action.                                           Commission would indicate that Malian
banks  are  properly  and  regularly
supervised. They have however lost
some credibility through regulatory
forbearance during the existence of the
previous  control  structures.  Recent
efforts would indicate an increased
awareness of the need to establish
achievable performance criteria for
which  the  banks  can   be   held
accountable. Also, recent strengthening
of prudential regulations should further
*    Govemment does not have adequate resources and is not                M                improve the quality of the banks.
committed to implement long-term restructuring plans for INPS,                   *   Careful budget planning in the context
CRM and CDC.                                                                          of the PFPs and donor assistance should
ensure that the govemment will be able
*   Regional supervisory bodies for social security and insurance         M                to face its obligations.
institutions are not efficient.                                                  *    Effort to strengthen CIMA and CIPRES
supervisory  capabilities  are  being
*   The privatization of financial institutions is not carried out as     M                undertaken at the regional levels.
planned due to insufficient resources to recapitalize selected                   *    Should there be need for fresh money to
banks and bring their net worth to zero prior to sale to private                      prepare banks for privatization, the Bank
investors or to clean up the balance sheet.                                           would   consider   a   supplemental
adjustment operation to fill in the gap
provided that specific conditions are
*   Because civil servants cannot be paid with IDA credit, project        M                met.
implementation personnel is not motivated to pursue vigorously                   *   The independent consultants will be
the  implementation  of project activities according  to the                          relied on to train young and motivated
envisaged timetable.                                                                  personnel interested in a lasting career
within the Ministry of Economy and
Finance.
From Components to Output
*   Govemment commitment to restructure and privatize banks is not        N           *   The government has already committed
sustained                                                                             itself to this in the PFP discussed in
early  1999.  The  letter  of  sector
development  policy  reiterates  this
commitment
*    Govemment does not make available qualified personnel and            N           *    This is a condition of negotiations.
budgetary resources to strengthen the department in charge of the
banking sector.
*   Banks are not willing to improve their services.                      N           *    During appraisal, a draft convention
between the cost-sharing fund to be
established and participating financial
institutions has been prepared. This
convention   outlines  the  eligibility
criteria for beneficiaries.
*    Government is not willing and does not have the resources to         M*    The letter of sector development policy



25
Risk                              Risk Rating          Risk Minim iztion Measure
support the financial strengthening of CRM and INPS.                       clearly spells out the government's
commitment.
*   Government is not determined to take unpopular measures to   N         *   During appraisal measures to ensure the
reduce benefits and increase contributions to CRM and INPS.                application of law have been identified.
.   Institutional capacity does not exist to effectively implement the  N  .   An assessment of this capacity and
reforms in the regulatory and legal environment.                           identification of remedial measures will
.   The project implementation unit is not staffed with adequate  N             be carried out during appraisal.
personnel.                                                             .   These will be conditions of negotiations.
Overall Risk rating                                              M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
60.   Two possible sources of controversy have been identified:
(a)   The first is that rigorous application of prudential regulations could adversely impact a number
of financial institutions, including some with government interests. To address this issue, the
project dialogue has focused on the tremendous economic costs and risks to average Malians
of not adequately safeguarding depositors' funds.
(b)   The second would be the government's attempt to transfer the bad loans to the treasury, and to
create an investment bank for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and a real estate
management company. To mitigate this risk, the government was asked to commit in the letter
of sector development policy to abide by the agreement with IDA to avoid its creation of these
companies.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
D Deposit by the government of the first tranche of counterpart funds, equivalent to US$100,000,
in the Project Account;
*   Establishment of a computerized accounting and financial management system, satisfactory to
IDA;
*   Appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and
*   Computerized procurement system in FSPAU.
2. Other
* Dated legal covenants of project implementation: (a) annual reviews will be held every 12
months starting from the date of effectiveness; and (b) a mid-term review will be conducted no
later than 36 months into implementation.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] 1. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.



26
[x] 2. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[    ] 3. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Noel K. Tshiani               Gerard A. By                   Hasan A. Tuluy
Team Leader                 Sector Manag                   Country Director



27
ANNEX 1
LOGICAL FRAMEWORK AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Hierareby of Objecttves        C.ey Performance Indicators    Monitoring and EvaIuatiou          Critical Assu'mptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:               Sector/Country Reports:       (From Goal to Bank Mission):
Sustained and broad-based private   * Macro-indicators such as M2/    * Country economic reports  * Major constraints to the
sector growth through improved    GDP have improved as           X Project supervision reports   development of the private sector
availability of diversified financial    compared to 25 percent by the    X BCEAO/WAEMU reports  are alleviated
services and products.            end of the project from 22                                   * Private sector is competitive
percent in 1999.                                              enough in local and foreign
* The ratio of currency to                                      markets to support expansion
deposits has declined from                                    and new investments
58.6percent in 1999 to 41.1
percent in 2002 and 38 percent
in 2005.
* Share of private sector credit to
total bank credits has increased
from 10.7 percent to 15
percent-in five years.
Project Development Objective:   Output/Impact Indicators:       Project Reports:              (From Objective to Goal)
Macroeconomic indicators
The overall objective of the    * Financial institutions comply  * Financial statements of     * There is a private sector supply
project is to improve the         with key prudential ratios       banks, non-banking institu-   response to improved and
soundness, performance and        (capital adequacy, risk         tions and microfinance         broadened financial services
competitiveness of the financial  concentration and liquidity) and    institutions.
sector in order to support broad-  substantially reduce the level of  * Reports of regional institu-
based private sector growth.      non-performing loans from the    tions (BCEAO, CIMA,
present level (industry-average)    CIPRES, etc.)
of 23 percent to 18 percent by    * Supervision reports
the second, 15 percent the third
year and and 10 percent by the
end of the project.
a Financial intermediation has
been broadened by the end of
the project with the
introduction and development
of new instruments such as,
CD's, leasing, and venture
capital.
* Treasury deposits will be
placed with banks following a
compteitive basis process.
Output From Each Component:   Output Indicators                  Project Reports               (From Outputs to Objective)
1. Banking Sector:
State owned banks are           *BIM, and BMCD have been         * Banks financial statements    * The regional body in charge of
restructured and privatized.      restructured and privatized by    * Reports of the Commission  bank supervision is efficient
2001; BCS by june 2002 and      Bancaire and of the Ministry
BDM-SA by 2004.                 of Economy and Finance      * Resources are available to bring
* Government shares in banks    * Supervision reports           the net worth of selected banks
are reduced from current levels                               (BIM) to zero to facilitate sale to
to less than 20 percent by end                                private investors (if necessary).
of 2001 and zero by end of    * Viability study of BHM      * Existence of functional share
2004-                                                         transfer mechanism
* Key recommendations of the
viability study of BHM are
being implemented.
11. Non-Banking Financial
Institutions:
Social security, retirement funds    * Within two years of project  * Reports of the institutions in   * Government is committed to
and insurance companies are       launch: (a) Actuarial studies for    charge of supervision     implement long-term restructur-
strengthened                      CRM and INPS have been         * INPS and CRM financial        ing plans
completed and action plans are  statement     -             * Regional supervisory bodies are
implemented; and (b) By 2003,   * Bank missions' supervision  efficient
INPS and insurance companies    reports



28
Hierrchy ofObjectives         Key Pefo>andr jM                                     g             Critical Asptions
comply with regional          * CIPRES reports
prudential requirements       * Supervision reports
* By 2004, government has
implemented the
recommnendations of CIMA on
insurance companies that do
not meet regional solvency    * Insurance companies         * Private shareholders will
requirements.                   financial statements          recapitalize the insurance
a CIMA supervision reports      companies if necessary
111. Microfinance:
Microfinance institutions and the    * At least 40 percent of formal  * Registry of microfinance  * BCEAO supports the integration
government microfinance            MFIs are registered in the      institutions at the Ministry of    of microfinance institutions in
supervisory agency are             CAS/SFD's data bank by 2002     Economy and Finance            the financial system
strengthened.                      and at least 80 percent by end    * Periodic reports from the  * The national microfinance
of the project.                 CAS/SFD                        strategy adopted in 1998
* By mid-term review, APIM      * Periodic reports from the      provides a supportive environ-
starts to provide a number of   Groupe Consultatif             ment for microfinance institu-
demand-based services to its  * Surveys of APIM members       tions.
members, includ-ing seminars    * APIM activities reports
and training, information     * Progress report on training
sharing, and dissemination of   program.                    * Other donors support the
best practices.               * Survey of MFIs                 national microfinance strategy
* By mid-term review, a                                          and implement it at the level of
minimum of four courses are                                   individual MFIs, which they are
offered on basic financial                                     directly assisting.
management issues, such as
managing risk, reducing
administrative costs, and
increasing revenue.
* By mid-term review, a
minimum of 100 MFI staff are
trained and a minimum of 250
MFI staff by end of project.
IV. Legal Component
The legal and regulatory         * Within 24 months of CE, 50
framework affecting the financial  percent of credit staff in the
sector is improved and conducive   major banking institutions have
to the development of the sector   received training, and 100
percent at the end of the
project;
* Bad loans granted to SMEs and
private customers drop -
compared to a base line.
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budget for each        Project Reports:              (Components to Outputs)
components:                      component)
The project will provide
consultant services, goods and
equipment and financial support to
carry out the five following
components and assist in project
implementation.
1. Banking Sector Component:    US$8.8 million
This component will support a    * At least 80 percent of all shares   * Commission Bancaire and  * Government commitment to
program aimed at:                  of banks would have been sold    BCEAO reports                 restructure and privatize banks is
A. Helping the Government:        to private investors by 2001   * Supervision reports            sustained'.
(I) prepare and implement          and 100 percent by 2004.      * Periodical project imple-    * Government makes available
restructuring and business plans                                   mentation reports              qualified personnel and budget
aiming to improve soundness and                                  * Investment Memorandum          resources.



29
llierarchy otObjectives        Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
competitiveness, and the chances                                  * Supervision reports
for successful privatization, for                                 * Periodical project imple-
BIM, BCS, and BMCD and an                                           mentation reports
overall strategic plan to deal with
the disengagement of government
from ownership in the sector.
(2) strengthen the Department of                                 * Project Implementation
the Ministry of Economy and      * The Ministry of Economy and      reports.
Finance in charge of the banking   Finance is able to follow the
sector to exercise its role as     developments in the Banking
Autorite de Tutelle and reinforce  sector and (a) advocate changes  * APBEF's quarterly activity
the actions and recommendations    that may be needed in the        reports
of the Commission Bancaire.        application of the prudential
regulations; and (b) monitor
(3) provide TA to banks and non-   the performance and            * BRVM reports
bank financial institution on a    compliance with regulations by   * Supervision reports
cost-sharing basis to develop      banks                          * Periodical project imple-
appropriate business strategies,                                    mentation reports
improve competitiveness, and                                        BRVM reports
quality of services.                                                BCEAO statistics
(4) provide TA to the Banking
Association to develop shared                                                                   * Banks are willing to improve
products for the industry likely to                                                                management and services and to
enhance the efficiency,         * The bank training center has                                     cooperate to find new common
diversification and sophistication  been staffed and launched by                                  services.
of services.                       2001 and enrollment is                                       * There is consensus among banks
increasing in line with a                                      on the role of APBEF.
B. Assisting the Association       business plan approved by the                                * Bank are willing to participate
Professionnelle des Banques et     APBEF                                                           financially and with manpower
Etablissements Financiers                                                                         to enhance APBEF's capacity.
(APBEF) to build its capacity and
coordinate bank staff training.
Assisting the Bourse Regionale                                                                  * There are enterprises that qualify
des Valeurs Mobilieres (BRVM),                                                                    to be listed in the stock market.
the Societes de Gestion et                                                                      * There is a demand for enterprise
d'lntermediation (SGIs), the     * I Malian group is quoted on the                                 stocks and bonds.
Ministry of Finance and Treasury   BRVM by 2003, 3 by the end
to facilitate the privatization of  of the project
banks and raising long-term funds
by publicizing the rules and
regulations of BRVM and the
advantages that can be offered to
enterprises and investors, and
creating an investment culture.
11. Non-Banking Financial        US3.7 million
Institutions Component:
The project seeks to ensure the                                   * INPS, CRM and CDC           * Government is willing and has
long-term viability of INPS, CRM                                    financial statements          resources to support the financial
and CDC.                                                          * CIPRES reports                 strengthening of CRM and INPS.
* Supervision reports         * Government is determined to
* Periodical project imple-     take unpopular measures to
mentation reports             reduce benefits and increase
contributions to CRM and INPS.
The project also seeks to increase                                * Insurance companies'        * There is a commitment on the
the role and efficiency of the                                      financial statements           part of shareholders of insurance
insurance companies in the overall                                * CIMA reports                   companies to recapitalization if
financial sector. Planned audits                                  * Supervision reports            necessary and get the companies
will assist in the preparation and                                *Periodical project imple-       to comply with prudential
implementation of long-term                                         mentation reports             regulations
strategic development.                                                                          * There is demand for new
insurance products.
* Laws requiring mandatory
insurance are strictly enforced
(by police, customs, etc.).
* Legal instruments adopted by the



30
government are properly
implemented.
111. Microfinance component:      USS 2.0 million
This component aims to increase                                     . Supervision reports           . CASISFD has been provided
the long-term sustainability of                                     * Periodical project implemen-    with adequate personnel.
microfinance institutions. It will                                    tation reports
provide assistance to: (a)                                          . CAS/SFD reports
strengthen the ability of the                                       . MFIs financial statements
Ministry of Economy and Finance                                     * APIM reports
to supervise and monitor MFIs;                                      * Project supervision reports
(b) assist APIM to become a                                         . Periodical project imple-
sustainable advocacy; (c) assist                                      mentation reports
the National Consultative Group                                     . CAS/SFD reports
for Microfinance to monitor the
implementation of'the national
microfinance strategy; and (d)
provide training to microfinance
institutions.
IV. Legal component.              US$3.5 million                    Participatory workshop         . Institutional capacity exists to
effectively identify policy
Improving the policy, regulatory                                                                      constraints and implement the
and legal environment by                                                                              reforms of the regulatory and
identifying and implementing                                                                          legal environment.
measures to remove constraints                                                                      . There is a supply-response from
impeding the development of                                                                           private investors to set up new
financial sector operations and of                                                                    financial institutions.
new financial instruments or                                                                       . There is true dialogue between
institutions.                                                                                        the public and private sectors
V. Project Implementation:        US$3.0 million
With a view to improve the                                          . Supervision reports          . Legal Reforms are being
Ministry of Economy and                                             . Periodical project imple-       implemented at the regional level
Finance's institutional capacity,                                     mentation reports            * The project implementation unit
the project will provide support to                                                                  is staffed with sufficient and
the financial sector and advisory                                                                     competent personnel.
unit which is in charge of the                                                                     . Accounting and other banking
implementation.                                                                                       procedures are respected.
VI. Unallocated                   US$2.1 million



31
ANNEX 2
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Overview
The project's development objective is to support financial sector reforms aimed at supporting broad-
based private sector growth by specifically helping the GOM to improve the soundness, performance and
competitiveness of the financial system. The project would include five components: (a) the restructuring
and privatization of the banking sector; (b) the strengthening of non-bank financial institutions including
the social security and retirement funds; (c) the strengthening of the microfinance sector; (d) the
improvement of the legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions; and (e) the
strengthening of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, so as to enable it to formulate and implement
economic and financial sector policies. The estimated project costs are summarized in Annex 3, and the
costs of each implementation period are in Annex 5.
Component 1 - Restructuring and Privatization of the Commercial Banking Sector
(US$8.8 million)
The banking sector is presently characterized by substantial government control or ownership. Of
the nine banks, only three (BOA, BICIM and ECOBANK-Mali) are fully private, the government is the
sole owner of one major bank (BMCD) and the housing bank (BHM), holds 20 to 50 percent of the equity
shares in all the other banks (BNDA, BHM, BDM-SA and BCS), while BIM is under temporary
administration by the authorities. In addition, there are two credit institutions, Credit Initiative (CI) and
Societe Malienne de Financement (SOMAFI) which have substantial government ownership. As part of
its strategy to develop the financial sector, the government has committed to disengage from the sector in
order to improve governance and efficiency, and promote competition.
Under this component, the project would finance: (a) the assistance of legal advisors and
privatization advisors to the government to: evaluate the banks to be privatized, design a privatization
strategy, determine the most appropriate privatization method, establish the list of potential investors,
prepare the prospectus and bidding documents; assist in the evaluation of bids and selection of investors;
and close on the transaction; (b) specialized bank diagnostics or audits, as needed, to support the
government in its efforts to restructure and or privatize banks by conducting customized analyses of
selected banks prior to privatization; and (c) provide, on a cost-sharing basis, consultant services to help
banks prepare strategic business development plans, identify needs for staff training, and implement a
training program.
Assistance to the Malian Professional Bankers Association. The support to the Association
Professionnelle des Banques et Etablissements Financiers (APBEF) is intended to enable it to provide,
inter alia, advice and guidance to banks and other members with respect to banking regulations and
concerns common to the industry, promote information exchange in the financial sector, and coordinate -
the implementation of activities of interest to all members.
APBEF's role in facilitating training programs for staff of commercial banks has become
increasingly important as a means to reinforce prudential regulations and supervision by the Commission
Bancaire. The project would finance through a cost-sharing basis (50 percent paid by the beneficiaries
and 50 percent by the government through the project): (a) consultants to help design and implement the
training of banks and non-bank financial institutions; (b) the refurbishing of the local training center and
some equipment for the APBEF; (c) the consultancy and advisory services to design and implement
modem domestic interbank settlement system (with the government playing only a catalytic role); and (d)
training materials.



32
Assistance for Capital Markets Development. Although the BRVM has been established at the
regional level with local branches in each of the WAEMU member countries, public listings and stock
market activities are still extremely limited. This is due in part to insufficient awareness of stock market
activities and to limited staff skills of the local branches of the BRVM and of the brokerage firm. These
limitations apply also to the information available to the investor community, where individual and
institutional investors have yet to learn how a stock market operates and what can be accomplished
through it.
To facilitate the privatization of financial institutions, the project would provide financial support
to the local branch of the BRVM and to the local SGI to raise awareness to the rules of the stock market,
as well as to relevant regulations and policies. The project would also provide financial support for
training of staff of the local branches of the BRVM, local SGI as well as the general public.
The results expected from implementation of the banking component are: the restructuring of all
banks to ensure that they meet the prudential requirements of the BCEAO and the privatization of those
controlled by the government; the improvement of their services and efficiency through training of their
personnel; and the improvement of savings mobilization and provision of credit to the economy. The
results expected from implementation of the sub-component on the professional bankers association
component is the improved coordination of justified concerns of the banking industry and dissemination
of information within the financial sector, improvement of the skill-level and professionalism in the
financial industry and the facilitation of joint and industry-wide product-development efforts, such as a
well functioning local payment system. The results expected from implementation of the sub-component
on capital market development are the facilitation of the privatization of financial institutions and a well
functioning local capital market that allows efficient mobilization of risk- and/or long-term resources
necessary to meet the needs of the individual and institutional investors and consumers.
Component 2 - The Strengthening of Non-Bank Financial Institutions Including the Social Security
and Retirement Funds (US$3.7 million)
The non-bank financial institutions include the social security INPS and the civil servants
retirement fund CRM and five private insurance companies CNAR, the SUTNBNYUMAN company,
LAFIA, COLINA a subsidiary of the same company in Abidjan and Societe Nouvelle d'Assurance Vie
(SONA VIE). According to the data collected by the GRSF, INPS has an excess of liquidity: resources,
which grew from about FCFA 12 billion in 1994 to about FCFA 18 billion in 1996, while expenses grew
from FCFA 10 to 15 billion. On the other hand, CRM has a structural defici, which grew from FCFA 1.2
billion in 1994 to FCFA 3.1 billion in 1997. Projections show that neither CRM nor INPS is viable in the
long term. A 1996 study has shown that the former is plagued with deficits that go back to the early
1980s, while the financial holdings of the latter would be able to provide only about a year and a third of
pension expenditures, even though it has operated with annual surpluses. Under current conditions, their
future operations could put a substantial strain on the Government budgetary resources. CDC is
characterized by lack of transparency in its financial management and lacks operational autonomy.
Regarding the insurance sector, 1997 data show that, of the five insurance companies surveyed by
the GRSF, three are posting losses varying from FCFA 40 million to 140 million. Figures for the year
1998 supplied by the Insurance Division of the Ministry of Economy and Finance indicate that operations
were profitable for all companies, largely due to the exceptionally low rate of claims experienced on
automobile insurance business. Other shortcomings of these companies identified by a GRSF review are:
(a) the narrowness of their product base, which is made almost exclusively of car insurance policies; as a
result, their turnover amounts to about FCFA 8 billion only, as compared to FCFA 100 billion in C6te
d'Ivoire, FCFA 30 billion in Senegal and FCFA 12 billion in Burkina Faso; and (b) weak management



33
resulting in important arrears on the payment of insurance policies, insufficient technical reserves, and
substantial losses to the point that the net-worth of some companies is negative.
The project would finance: (a) financial and institutional audits of INPS, CRM and CDC to
identify immediate measures to improve their management and limit their losses and improve their
accounting and procedures with a view to adequately prepare actuarial studies for INPS and CRM; (b)
financial and institutional audits and to prepare action plans for insurance companies to address their
shortcomings and advisory services to promote their participation in the integrated financial sector
development and capital market; (c) management information systems and training of staff necessary to
improve the efficiency of INPS, CRM, and CDC; (d) technical assistance to implement the
recommendations of the actuarial studies; and (e) technical assistance to help insurance companies
improve their management and prepare their strategic development plans.
The results expected from the implementation of this component are: (a) with regard to the
existing social security and retirement funds: the identification, through, a financial and institutional audit,
of immediate actions needed to improve their management and financial performance; the completion of
actuarial studies and the identification of measures to be taken to ensure their long-term viability; and (b)
with regard to other institutions (insurance companies and CDC): the preparation of conditions to ensure
long-term viability and sustainable development of their activities through improvement of their
managerial capacities, improved portfolio management, and portfolio diversification.
Component 3 - Strengthening of the Microfinance Sector (US$ 2.0 million)
The microfinance sector in Mali consists of about 30 formal microfinance institutions with some
500 branches operating in both urban and rural areas, including some of the most remote in the country.
As of December 31, 1998, 24 of the largest MFIs had a total clientele of about 300,000 individuals,
compared to about 230,000 in 1997. Women accounted for nearly half of clients. Microfinance activity
has grown rapidly in recent years.  Total loans outstanding increased from  FCFA  9.4 billion
(approximately US$15.8 million) in 1997 to FCFA 11.7 billion FCFA (US$19.6 million) in 1998, an
increase of 24 percent. In 1998, microfinance institutions mobilized FCFA 7.9 billion (US$13.2 million),
representing a 22 percent increase over the previous year. The average loan size is FCFA 77,000
(US$117).
A 1997 World Bank/GTZ review indicated that although most microfinance institutions in Mali
are experiencing rapid growth and posting high repayment rates averaging 95 percent, the vast majority of
institutions are highly dependent on donor funding and are far from being financially sustainable. Most
MFIs are characterized by weak institutional capacity, reflected in inadequate accounting and monitoring
procedures, lack of management information systems, and poor financial management skills. Other key
issues in the microfinance sector include: (a) the lack of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework,
particularly with regard to non-mutualist institutions; and (b) inadequate government capacity to
supervise a rapidly growing number of microfinance institutions, in such a manner that does not hinder
their development. However, there is a consensus that the key constraint to the development of an
efficient microfinance sector in Mali is the limited capacity of MFI management.
In this context, the project will focus on institution building within the microfinance sector. It
will finance technical assistance, consultancy services, and equipment to: (a) the government
microfinance supervisory unit, to improve its capacity to supervise and monitor MFIs; (b) to the newly-
created Professional Association of Microfinance Institutions (APIM), to assist it in becoming a
sustainable advocacy group for MFIs through information sharing, dissemination of best practices, and
networking; (c) to the National Consultative Group for Microfinance to ensure coordination among
various stakeholders and monitor implementation of a supportive microfinance policy; and (d) to provide



34
training to microfinance institutions with the aim of improving their financial and institutional
performance.
The component would contribute to the improved institutional viability of MFIs in Mali, resulting
in their capacity to deliver financial services to a large number of the poor on a financially sustainable and
long-term basis. The improved financial performance of MFIs may also increase their ability to obtain
commercial sources of funding, leading to closer linkages between formal and informal financial
institutions, and thus to a more integrated financial sector.
Component 4 - Legal and Regulatory Support for Financial Sector: US $3.5 million
This project sub-component finances consultancy studies and technical assistance aimed at
helping the government identify in the regulatory framework constraints impeding the development of
financial sector operations and new financial instruments or institutions, and effectively implement
measures to remove them.
This component will support better understanding of the legal requirements for establishing valid
loan/credit documents by the staff of financial entities (banks, MFIs and others); increase the access to
credit facilities for SMEs and potential rural clients; reduce the instances of intentional non-repayment of
loans/credits by SMEs and private clientele of financial institutions; enhance competition; reduce fraud
within the financial community and the judiciary, and reduce credit loss due to unreliable registers
(commerce, land title and mining).
Specifically, the project will finance training for selected staff of financial institutions, and of the
legal profession, in legal matters relevant to financial transactions. The project will also finance studies to
identify weaknesses in the interface between the banking and the judicial sectors, and propose solutions.
Furthermore, the elaboration, printing and distribution of forms required for the implementation of valid
financial transactions under the regional Uniform Acts (OHADA) will be financed, and studies to propose
means to better serve SMEs and rural clientele.
In particular, the following activities will be financed under the project:
*  training for all staff in financial institutions on the changes brought about by the OHADA
legislation - delivered according to the field of activity. of staff,
*  a study will define the regulation required to include a trained legal expert among the staff of
every financial institution receiving training, in order to supervise and follow up on the
application of the rules;
*  studies will be carried out outlining the feasibility of: (a) establishing Islamic banking
institutions; (b) acceptable credit approval processes, complying with all regional guidelines
and laws, applicable to credit institutions according to loan/credit category; (c) establishing a
mutual repayment conditionality among small business borrowers; (d) establishing a "quasi-
security" for loans/credits based on traditional values and socially accepted norms; (e)
recruiting decentralized government staff as agents for the financial institutions in collecting
savings and dispensing loans/credits and identifying the legal requirements for such
recruitment; (f) keeping accounts for selected entities in local languages; and (g) identifying
changes required in the current regulatory or legal framework, if any, to facilitate leasing; and
carrying out tests of the recommendations of all such studies on a pilot basis;
*  a review of existing anti-trust and unfair competition regulations, an assessment of their
compatibility with the Actes Uniformes of OHADA, a proposal of the statutes for an



35
independent anti-trust regulatory body, the establishment of such a body, and the training of its
staff;
* a review of the needs of the Cour de Comptes to function efficiently, the establishment of an
action plan to answer such needs and to execute said plan;
* reorganization of the court-appointed legal experts - allowing access to court only for members
of organized professional associations; and
* assessment of the efficiency, reliability and conformity with the law of the commercial, land
title and mining registries, and proposition of remedial action, as warranted.
Component 5 - Project Implementation and Capacity Building in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance: US$3.0 million
This component will finance two sets of activities:
* A significant portion of funds will go towards strengthening the capacity in the departments of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance in charge of banking, insurance, pension funds and
microfinance as well as the legal and regulatory environment for the financial sector. Technical
assistance will be used to cover consultancy services to provide training to the different
Ministry of Economy and Finance personnel in charge of banking, insurance, pension funds
and microfinance issues. The main objective is to build capacity that will remain after the
project implementation is completed in five years.
* The project will also finance the capacity building effort within the Ministry of Economy and
Finance. Specifically, it will finance a Project Coordinator, Project Component Managers, an
Accountant, an Administrative Assistant, a Driver, and one car assigned to the project.
Necessary office equipment for the project implementation unit will be also financed under this
component.
The result will be an effective implementation of envisaged activities to meet the specific
development objective pursued by the project.
Component 6 - Unallocated: US$2.1 million
Of the total amount for this component, approximately US$1.0 million will comprise a reserve
fund to finance additional due diligence and specific feasibility studies as the need arises. An additional
US$1.1 million represents price contingencies for the components above. The result will be the ability
of the project to respond to unforeseen demand in order to meet the specifically stated development
objective.



36
ANNEX 3
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs
(in US$ thousands)
Project Component        Borrower  Beneficiaries    IDA    Local Foreign  Total
Banking Sector
1. Restructuring/Privatization          I              0    4,891        1    4,891   4,893
2. Sector Strengthening                 0               0    1,200       0    1,200   1,200
3. Support to APBEF                   790            775       485   1,700      350   2,050
4. Capital Markets Development          0               0      625       0      625      625
5. Legal and Regulatory                 0               0        0       0        0        0
Framework
Total                                 791            775    7,201   1,701    7,066   8,768
Strengthening NBFIs
1. SupporttoNBFls                      54              0    1,590      540    1,104   1,644
2. Caisse Retraite Maladies            15               0      984       0      999      999
3. INPS                                 0               0      716       0      716      716
4. CDC                                  0               0      369       0      370      370
Total                                  69               0    3,659     540    3,189   3,729
Strengthening Microfinance
Sector
1. Support to Microfinance Unit        28              0       740     257      511     768
2. Consultative                         5               0       90      45       49       94
Group/Microfinance
3. Support to APBEF                    21               0      210     208       23      231
4. Support to SFD                       0               0      840       0      840      840
5. Studies                              0               0       50       0       50       50
Total                                  53               0    1,930     510    1,473   1,983
Legal and Regulatory                    0               0    3,466       0    3,466   3,466
Framework
Total                                   0              0    3,466        0    3,466   3,466
Institutional Strengthening
1. Support to MinFinance                0              0      410        0      410     410
2. Project Management                 240               0    2,384   2,225      399   2,624
Total                                 240               0    2,794   2,225      809   3,034
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 1,154           775   19,050   4,976   16,003  20,979
Contingencies (10%)                   115             78    1,905      498    1,600   2,098
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  1,269            853   20,955   5,474   17,603  23,077



37
ANNEX 4
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project, which will provide the resources and
capacity to help the GOM improve the soundness, performance and competitiveness of the financial
system. More specifically, the project will seek to support financial sector reforms aiming at supporting
broad-based private sector growth. Its aim is that by strengthening the regulatory framework, the breadth,
depth and efficiency of financial intermediation will increase. Moreover, it is hoped that the solvency of
many individual financial institutions will also be improved during the period supported under the project.
Project Benefits
Project benefits are expected to be: (a) increased savings mobilized in the short term through
banks and non-bank deposit-taking institutions and in the medium term through contractual savings
institutions; (b) increased efficiency of intermediation in the banking sector as measured by lower
operational costs and spreads; and (c) increased solvency and efficiency of non-bank financial
institutions, including pension funds and insurance companies.
Project Costs
Project costs include: (a) direct costs of US$23 million to be borne by the government and
beneficiaries; and (b) indirect costs associated with further financial sector restructuring as the
restructuring or liquidation of the government-owned banks and the restructuring of the social security
and pension funds might require substantial funding. Furthermore, the large amount of bad loans on the
books of financial institutions represents a significant cost to the economy as it puts strains on credit to
the private sector. Dealing with the bad loans has a significant fiscal impact, particularly for government-
owned banks.
Cost/Benefit Review
It is not possible to quantify the expected economic returns of a technical assistance operation of
this nature. However, given the noted critical importance of efficient financial intermediation to growth
and in view of the level of domestic savings in Mali, it is expected that the economic benefits of
improving financial intermediation and potentially increasing the level of savings and the efficiency of
transforming such savings to productive investment, will far outweigh the financial costs. A restructured
financial system will significantly contribute to economic growth by facilitating resource mobilization
and distribution of credit to sound corporate and individual clients.



38
ANNEX 5
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Table 1: Implementation Period
(in US$ thousands, including contingencies)
Total Financing Required
2000     2001     2002    2003    2004    2005   2006   Total
Investment         214      7,902    5,002    3,148   2,909   2,774      6  21,955
Costs                                      _ _  _    _  _    _  _    _ _
-Recurrent          10       245      233      217     207     210       0   1,122
Costs
Total              224      8,147    5,235    3,365   3,116   2,984      6  23,077
Financing Plan
- IDA              215      7,373    4,764    3,062   2,836   2,700      5  20,955
- Govermnent         9       490      187       19    280       283      0   1,269
- Beneficiaries              284      284      284                             853
FTotal        T     224     8,147    5,235    3,365   3,116   2,984      6  23,077
Main Assumptions
* Project Financing Plan (1999-2004) in US$ million;
* Activities financed under PPF are implemented in 1999;
*  Recurrent costs will not exceed US$245,000 in any single year, during the project
implementation period and will include salaries of staff of the FSPAU implementation unit
working on Banking, Insurance, Social Security and Pension Funds and Microfinance issues
within the Ministry of Economy and Finance.



39
ANNEX 5-A
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ASSESSMENT
Background
Scope of Review of Financial Management System. This report is the result of a financial
management review and analysis as conducted by Siaka Bakayoko, Financial Management Specialist
(AFTQK). The scope of the work has been set out in the "Review of the Financial Management System"
as documented in the LACI Handbook, Annex 2 and in the Statement of Mission Objectives dated March
9, 2000, outlining the requirements for conducting this review. The objective of the review is to
determine whether the project has in place a financial management system as required by the Bank under
OP/BP 10.02. The LACI sign-off Certificate is in Appendix 1
Project Objectives. The proposed project's objective is to improve the soundness, performance and
competitiveness of the financial sector and enable it to support broad-based private sector growth. This
will entail (a) restructuring and privatizing viable state-owned banks, and strengthening non-bank
financial institutions, including social security and retirement funds; (b) enhancing the capacity of
financial institutions through training financed on a cost-sharing basis; (c) strengthening microfinance
institutions and the government microfinance supervisory agency; and (d) improving the legal and
regulatory environment affecting the financial sector. The government is looking to the privatization of
financial institutions as a means of improving their governance and the overall efficiency of the financial
sector
Project Status. The project is currently at Appraisal stage. Estimated dates for the remaining
project cycle are: (a) Negotiations: May 2000; (b) Board June 2000; (c) Signing: June 2000; (d)
Effectiveness: September 2000; (e) Completion: April 2006; and (f) Closing: October 2006.
Institutional Arrangements
The Office of the Minister of Economy and Finance (MoEF) will assume the overall
implementation responsibility of the project. A Financial Management Committee (Appendix 2), an ad-
hoc body composed of representatives from the BCEAO, MoEF, and the Project Coordinator (Appendix
3) as its Secretary would provide supervision and monitoring. Coordination of components will rest with
a FSPAU to be established as an autonomous unit within MoEF, while the actual implementation would
be through existing Divisions of MoEF for three of the components, and the Ministry of Justice for the
Legal Component. It should also be noted that the actual implementation of the Legal component would
be the responsibility of another independent unit, which is currently running the Business Law Reform
aspects of the IDA-financed Private Sector project.
The Direction Administrative et Financiere (DAF) of the Ministry of Economy and finance is
responsible for financial management as defined by the GOM's public financial management procedures.
The organization and modus operandi of the DAFs in Mali have been standardized by Presidential
Decrees across ministries and cannot be altered to comply with the specific requirements of any
Development project. A typical DAF has three Divisions, namely Personnel, Finance, and Logistics
(equipment), and is mainly responsible for budget management. It operates according to the GOM public
accounting system known as comptabilite budgetaire, in French, and monitors mainly the execution of the
annual budget allocation to the Ministry. The DAF is not required to be audited and its accounting
system is mainly for recording expenses and issuing payment orders. Routine controls carried out by the
Inspection des Finances of the MoEF do not amount to audits. Since the financial reporting requirements



40
of Bank-financed projects are more elaborated, frequent, and comprehensive than what is expected from
the DAF of MoEF; since the Ministry also lacks the required competence to manage the financial aspects
in an efficient manner, it has been agreed to assign the project financial management to an autonomous
unit to be established. The Unit would be under the supervision of a Financial Management Committee
to ensure compliance with existing regulations and procedures.
Consequently, within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, project management responsibilities
will be assigned to a FSPAU. The FSPAU will be responsible for:
* coordinating the implementation of the various components of the project and maintaining the
accounts in accordance with sound financial management practices, including procurement,
disbursement, accounting and auditing; and
* monitoring the implementation of the project, furnishing periodic progress reports to the
Minister of Economy and Finance and to IDA on project implementation, and supervising the
annual audits as well as the implementation of the recommendations.
Our preliminary assessment of the MoEF (Appendix 4) has concluded that the core FSPAU should
be a light coordination mechanism consisting of a Project Coordinator, an Accountant, an Operations
Officer for procurement and contracts management, and an Administrative staff who should also be
conversant in accounting to assist in this area. The larger FSPAU however, will include, in addition,
Project Component Managers and consultants to be located in the departments of the MoEF in charge of
banking, insurance and pension funds, and microfinance activities respectively. The Manager of the
Legal reforms under the IDA-financed Private Sector will also be part of the larger FSPAU since she
manages the Legal and Regulatory component of this project. Their responsibility, in addition to the day-
to-day management of the project, will be to train ministry personnel in charge of banking, insurance,
pension funds and microfinance.
It is expected that the FSPAU will have two layers of personnel: (a) the management personnel
specifically recruited on a competitive basis to handle the day to day management of the project; and (b)
the permanent Ministry of Economy and Finance personnel who are responsible for the formulation,
where appropriate, and monitoring in banking, insurance and pension funds, and microfinance. The
manager of the Legal component who comes under the first category of managers is the current
Coordinator of the Cellule de Reflexion et d'Appui a la Reforme du Droit des Affaires (Private Sector
Project) within the Ministry of Justice.
Institutional Experience with Bank-financed Projects. The Ministry of Economy and Finance or
the FSPAU, soon-to-be established, have no experience with Bank-financed projects. The portfolio in
Mali however, has experience with Project Implementation Units (PIUs) which have received adequate
Bank assistance in the past. In fact, out of the 14 projects currently under implementation in Mali, 12
projects or 86 percent have PIUs. Over the years, the Bank has built a capacity in the country in the area
of financial management through the existing and closed projects. This local capacity is still in the
country and can be relied upon to fill the positions to be established within the FSPAU.
Project Structure and Costing
Financing and cost sharing. The project costs have been estimated at US$23 million over a five-
year period. The Bank will contribute up to UD$21 million, the government's counterpart funds amount
to US$1.2 million and the beneficiaries will provide US$0.8 million. Beneficiary contribution will be on
a cost-sharing basis, mainly under the training activities proposed for the staff of the banks and the non-
bank financial institutions targeted by the project.



41
Credit Agreement Categories. The financing of project activities will follow standard Bank
practice for similar operations and it will be developed in the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
Table 2: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
(in thousands of US$)
Category of Expenditures Amount           Financing
1. Civil Works                134 90% of expenditures
2. Equipment/materials     1,1061 90% of expenditures
3. Consultants             1 1,150 100% of expenditures
4. Training                 2,520 90% of amounts disbursed
5. Operating costs          3,700 90 % of amounts disbursed
6. PPF                        530 n.a
7. Unallocated              1,860 n.a.
TOTAL                      20,955
Project components and sub-component. The project's development objective is to support
financial sector reforms. Toward that end, the project would be structured into five components:
-  Restructuring and Privatization of the Commercial Banking sector. This component will
support the government banking sector restructuring and privatization program. It will provide
assistance to strengthen (a) the division of the Ministry of Economy and Finance in charge of
the banking sector, (b) the Association of professional bankers, and (c) the local branch of the
regional stock exchange;
*  Strengthening of Non-Bank Financial Institutions Including the Social Security and
Retirement Funds. The project will, under this component, seek to ensure the long-term
viability of the Social Security System as well as to increase the role and efficiency of the
Insurance industry;
*  Strengthening of the Microfinance sector. This component aims to increase the long-term
sustainability of micro-finance institutions through the provision of Technical assistance to the
strengthen the ability of the Ministry Economy and Finance to supervise and monitor Micro
Finance Institutions (MFIs);
*  Legal and Regulatory Support for financial Sector. This component seeks to improve the
policy, regulatory and legal environment by identifying and implementing measures to remove
constraints impending the development of financial sector operations and of new financial
instruments or institutions; and
*  Project implementation and Capacity-building in the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
This component will finance activities aim at improving the Ministry of Economy and
Finance's institutional capacity and providing support to the FSPAU to ensure effective
implementation of the various activities and the achievement of the specific development
objective pursued under the project.
Procurement Budget. The management of the procurement would be the responsibility of the
Operations Officer in the FSPAU. He/she will receive assistance from the Bank Procurement Specialist
in the field. It is estimated that all civil works, which are relatively small and scattered, and about 10
percent of Project Coordination costs would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
up to a total of US$0.3 million. All Equipment and Materials, and Consultant services, the largest and



42
most sensitive component of the project, would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for a total of US$ 13.5 million. Other procurement methods totaling US$ 7.2 million would be
followed for the training aspects and the bulk of the activities under the Project Coordination.
Procurement monitoring would constitute a critical aspect of the project management, the necessary
measures, i.e., contract tracking, management, and payment systems, have already been determined and
would be considered from the outset of implementation. Procurement management reports would be
produced under the PMR system.
Internal and Other Controls
Project Financial Management Systems Manual. The DAF of the MoEF is ill equipped to carry
out the financial management of the project in an efficient manner. It has neither a financial management
manual of procedures nor a complete statutory job description. The FSPAU will be computerized. It will
be established with a view to ensure that financial management comprising general accounting in
compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, cost accounting, budgetary management,
loan disbursement, procurement monitoring and contract management, fixed assets management, etc. are
carried out in an efficient and integrated fashion. The outline of the Manual of procedures is provided in
Appendix 5.
Accounting Standards, Financial Management Reporting
.Accounting standards. A computerized accounting system based on internationally acceptable
accounting principles will be established for financial management purposes. The project accounts will
be on accrual basis to ensure that revenues and expenditures are recorded when incurred. The FSPAU
will maintain the accounts for transactions related to each component and will produce the annual
financial statements in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles. To strengthen the
FSPAU financial management capacity, an action plan (Appendix 6 ) has been discussed with and agreed
to with the Borrower. It outlines the main activities and their timing to ensure the readiness of the system
before effectiveness. The system would be designed with the following features: (a) clear definition of
the project's organizational structure and responsibility assignments; (b) preparation of an accounting
manual including the design and configuration of the project's accounting system, the chart of accounts
containing sufficient detail to satisfy reporting requirement and describing type of transactions to be
posted in each account; (c) brief description of the main accounting principles to be applied, the format,
content and periodicity of the various financial reports; and (d) adequate budgetary procedures and
process (preparation, consolidation, monitoring) and the relevant internal controls.  The Chart of
Accounts would be developed to enable accounting data to be captured, recorded, and classified by
budget heads, project components, disbursement categories, and expenditure categories. Close attention
would be paid to the Chart of Account to ensure that it matches closely the classification of expenditures
and sources of funds indicated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). Furthermore, the Chart of Accounts would be designed in such a way that it would
ensure that data is captured in a manner that would facilitate financial reporting for the project to various
stakeholders, including IDA and the GOM. The Chart of Account would be fully documented and
detailed in the Project's Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual of Procedures. The main
features are outlined in Appendix 5.
Project Management Reports.  Although the proposed FSPAU  has no experience in
implementing projects financed by IDA, local capacity with experience in implementing IDA-financed
projects exists in Mali. Recruitment of project staff would be from this national pool of competent
people. The expert-consultant to assist in the establishment of the project financial management system
will also provide the initial training to launch the system to ensure that it can keep proper books of
accounts and comply with the IDA financial reporting requirements. The consultant will also prepare a
training program for the duration of the project.



43
In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the project needs to adopt a financial management
and reporting system in compliance with the LAC]. But given the newness of FSPAU and its lack of
track records, the lack of familiarity with LACI procedures of the accounting staff to be recruited, and the
lack of accountants in Mali familiar with LACI procedures, the project will not adopt PMR-based
disbursement from its outset. It will be more efficient for the project to run with the traditional, SOE-
based, disbursement methods. In this case, the project will produce annually the basic financial
statements (Use of funds by project activities, balance sheet, special accounts and SOEs) but will submit
on a quarterly basis the following reports: a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a Contract
Expenditure Report- Goods & Works, a Contract Expenditure Report- Consultants, a Procurement
Management Report- Goods & Works and a Procurement Management Report- Consultants. In addition,
the project will be encouraged to issue the full PMR reports on a parallel basis to get used to the practice
and master its content and format. The transition to a full-fledged PMR-based disbursement method
would be considered after 18 months of implementation on the basis of the action plan (Appendix 6).
During the 18-month period, improvements as required would be introduced and the staff adequately
trained to be able to produce, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of
the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA. The computer-based financial information system to be
installed would be configured so that it can generate adequate information to comply with the Bank and
the GOM financial reporting requirements.
Financial Statements and Annexes required under this project would include and not be limited to:
(a)  A Statement of Sources and use of Funds showing funds from IDA and Counterpart Funds
separately, a summary of expenditures analyzed under the main headings and by main
category of expenditures (consistent with the Chart of Accounts), both for the current fiscal
year and accumulated to date.
(b)  A Balance Sheet showing accumulated funds for the project, bank balances as well as other
assets and liabilities of the project, if any;
(c)  Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts and any supplementary information or
explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the
presentation of a "true and fair view."
(d)  Special Account Statement showing deposits and replenishments received, payments
substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the
balance at the end of the fiscal. year;
(e)  Use of Funds by Project Activity summarizing project expenditures by component and
sub-component (activities) consistent with the Project Appraisal Document (PAD);
(f)   Procurement management Reports, which would include (i) procurement process
monitoring reports for goods and works, and consultants, and (ii) contract expenditure
reports for goods and works; and
(g)  SOEs statement which summarizes the disbursement through SOEs with all the pertinent
information for tracking expenditures.
These statements have been discussed with the Borrower, he will also receive copies of the French
versions of the LACI Implementation Handbook and the Project Financial Management Manual. A full-
fledged LACI presentation would be conducted during the project launch seminar.



44
Special Account, Disbursement and Supporting documentation
Special Account used to facilitate disbursements would be established and operated at a
commercial Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness, a sum of
US$1,200,000 to cover about four months' expenditures would be deposited by IDA into this account.
Further deposits by IDA would be made into this account against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documents. The Borrower would be required to replenish the special account on a monthly
basis or more often when the total disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is
soonest.
Disbursements from IDA Credit account would be made on the basis of incurred eligible
expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, the FSPAU would submit a withdrawal application for the initial
deposit in the amount specified above. Replenishment of funds from IDA to the Special Account would
be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in the SOE's and/or on full
documentation for payments above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted
regularly. Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds would be the direct payment method,
involving direct payments from the Credit Account to a third party for goods and services. Payments may
also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a
commercial bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter will stipulate a minimum application
value for direct payment and special commitment procedures. These disbursement methods will be used
during the first 18 months of project implementation. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been
made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obliged to refund the same. If the Special Account
remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be requested to refund to IDA amounts
advanced to the Special Account.
Staffing and Training
Project Financial Management Staffing, Qualification and Job description.  A Project
Accountant with relevant practical experience (including proficiency in computer applications as well as
good communications skills) would be appointed according to terms of refernce (TORs) acceptable to
IDA (Appendix 7) in order to direct and guide the financial management operations of the IDA Credit
from the outset. The Project Accountant would report directly to the Project Coordinator and work
closely with the Project Component Managers and the Financial Management Committee.
Training. Accounting staff will be hired on a competitive basis. The consulting firm in charge of
the establishment of the project financial management system will provide an initial training to allow the
staff to launch the project in a satisfactory manner. The firm will also prepare a training program and an
implementation plan for the staff during the life of the project. Bank FMS and Disbursement Officers
will ensure that the staff receive adequate training on a regular basis in IDA procedures.
Audit Arrangements
Project Audit. MoEF, through the Project Coordinator, will establish and maintain, to the
satisfaction of IDA, the accounts and records to be used exclusively for the project. The accounts will be
maintained in accordance with sound and internationally accepted accounting principles. The Project
Coordinator will produce the annual financial statements to be audited by independent and competent
firms satisfactory to IDA. The audit will be carried out in accordance with international auditing
standards and will provide separate opinions on: (a) the financial statements; (b) the use of the special
account; and (c) the statement of expenditures. The auditor will also produce a Management Letter and
communicate therein, all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of the internal control system
and propose relevant recommendations for its improvement. The audit report and the Management Letter



45
are to be sent to the Bank within six months after the closing date of the fiscal year. The terms of
reference of the audit have been discussed and agreed to with Borrower's representatives.
Compliance with Audit Covenants. Compliance with audit covenants in Mali has improved
drastically since the appointment of an FMS in the Bamako Office. Although we experienced a few
delays in the submission of the 1998 reports, the portfolio is current as of today. The quality of the audits
has also improved as auditors and projects are more careful because of the close scrutiny of the Bank.
The auditor under this project will be appointed before effectiveness. The TORs have been discussed
with and agreed to with the Borrower.
Budgeting and Monitoring
Counterpart Funding is to be approved in line with the government's budgetary process. This is a
lengthy consultative process. The Project Coordinator and the Accountant would ensure that data for
their operating budget are submitted and inputted in the National Budget during the statutory period. The
Accountant would then monitor it through the system, and if needs be, he would ask for a waiver from the
Ministry of Economy of Finance so that the project counterpart funds are made available at the beginning
of the year.
The Financial Management Committee would have the ultimate responsibility forthe final review
and approval of the annual budgets under the project before submission to IDA for no objection. The
project Accountant, in consultation with the Coordinator and the Component Managers, would be
responsible for preparing and consolidating the project's Budget and Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow
Forecast.
As suggested in Appendix 2, members of the Financial Management Committee should review and
approve Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements. They should also examine material variances
between budget/actual figures-seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe.
Risks
Country Risks. The political climate is relatively calm and the possibility of civil strife is quite
remote since election are scheduled for 2002. The new government appointed two months ago has
received a favorable welcome from civil society. Parliament has expressed its willingness to work with
the new Prime Minister whose mandate is to promote good governance and economic development. The
government is aggressive in its anti-corruption campaign and has sent a few prominent managers of State-
owned companies to jail. All past " audit reports" issued by the Contr6le d'Etat, a government agency to
audit public institutions, have been reactivated. They are being reviewed by a panel of local experts. All
cases of irregularities will be prosecuted.
Project Risks. Specific project risks have been well identified in the PAD and mitigating measures
have been considered. A risk assessment table is in Appendix 8. The project will be monitored closely
and corrective action would be taken rapidly to fix major problems as they could arise.
Next Steps
Action Plan. The action plan in Attachment has been discussed with and fully agreed to with
Borrower. PPF resources are available to finance the critical activities and ensure a sound financial
management system is in place prior to project effectiveness.



46
Conclusion
Based on assessment the project does not fully satisfy the minimum Bank financial management
requirement as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. Measures have been taken to secure the appointment of a
qualified firm to design and establish a sound financial management system for effectiveness. The
Accountant will be hired on the basis of TORs prepared and agreed to with Borrower (Appendix 7). An
initial training will be provided by the expert-consultant as well. Hence,the project would not adopt
PMR-based disbursement formn the outset. It would be more efficient for the project to run with the
traditional, SOE-based disbursement methods for a period not to exceed 18 months. Full transition to a
PMR-based disbursement method would be consider after those 18 months of implementation.
Table 3: Financial Management Review
Risk Assessment Table
Risk Area                             Risk Assessment
High   Medium    Low
Organizational Structure/Institutional Arrangements                 M
Project Structure and Costing                                                L
Internal Control Structure                                          M
Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting         __           L
Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation                 L
Staffing and Training                                                        L
Audit Arrangements                                                           L
Budgeting and Monitoring                                                     L
Country Risk (corruption, poor governance, etc.)                    M
Project Risk                                                                LOW
Appendix 1:  Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR
Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System
The Bank team reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective
of the review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system
as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
The review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's
accounting system, intemal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an
auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by
the borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
The team confirmed that the project does not have yet an established financial management
system and consequently does not satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. An
agreement has been with the Borrower on the detailed TORs for a financial expert to establish the project
financial management system before effectiveness. It is reasonable therefore, to assume that the project



47
cannot provide in its first year, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status
of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements.
The inadequacies that were found in the system at project appraisal and are summarized in an
annex to the PAD will be corrected by the financial expert during his/her mission. A follow up
assessment would be carried out to determine whether the system is fully satisfactory. An action plan to
reinforce the system and effect a smooth transition to LACI has been discussed and agreed with the
Borrower.
Appendix 2: Terms of Reference - Financial Management Committee
Reporting to the MoEF, the following are indicative Terms of Reference for the Financial
Management Committee:
* Fully supervising all financial management aspects of the project (in particular, Procurement and
Financial Reporting);
* Ensuring that accounting records, including bank account reconciliation are kept up-to-date;
* Ensuring that suitable systems of internal control are established and maintained;
* Ensuring that the Administrative, Accounting, and Financial Manual of Procedures is updated on a
regular basis by the Project Accountant;
- Reviewing and approving Annual Budgets and Cash Flow Projections;
- Confirming project compliance with the government's Accounting reporting requirements as well as
the IDA financial reporting requirements;
- Reviewing and approving Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements as well as analyzing
budget material variances; seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe;
- Ensuring compliance with IDA operating procedures for Procurement, Disbursements, Special
Accounts, LACI reporting, Special Commitments, etc.;
X Commenting on external auditors' report and following up on the timely implementation of the
recommendation of the Management Letters;
* Being briefed by the officers in charge of the procurement on procurement issues, as well as
evaluating any difficulties being experienced;
* Monitoring progress on Staff Development/Capacity Building;
* Reviewing information technology issues, including the computerization of accounting records; and
* Monitoring the project's performance against previously agreed Performance Indicators.
Appendix 3:  Terms of Reference - Project Coordinator
The Project Coordinator is expected to assume a pro-active position with respect to monitoring
project performance, and in advising the World Bank of any unforeseen difficulties. He or she should
cultivate a close working relationship with the beneficiaries, including assistance in selecting providers
for the consulting and training modules, and should feel free to contact the Task Team Leader should any
irregularities occur. He or she should further apprise the Task Team Leader of any related development
in the financial and private sectors which potentially impact on project success, such as opening of a
leasing company, a stock market, new banks, etc.
The main responsibilities of the Project Coordinator are to:
(a)   ensure that all the components of the Financial Sector Development Project are
implemented in an efficient and timely manner according to the schedule agreed upon



48
between the World Bank and the government as well as the various institutions involved in
the project;
(b)    monitor, for that purpose, on a continuing basis the implementation of each project
component in the financial sector in order to identify at an early stage possible delays in
implementation and take preventive actions;
(c)    bring immediately, if appropriate, to the attention of Financial Management Committee, the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and the World Bank possible causes for delays and
recommend specific actions to be taken to prevent such delays;
(d)    participate actively with each institution involved in the project in the steps to be taken for
the implementation of each components;
(e)   review, once a month, with each of the institutions involved in the project, the status of the
components that it is responsible for and agree upon actions to be taken for the
implementation of these components;
(f)   submit monthly reports to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the World Bank on
progress made in the implementation of each project component;
(g)   act as the Secretary of the Financial Management Committee and ensure that the relevant
documents are submitted promptly and the meetings are held as planned;
(h)    coordinate the training activities of the Ministry of Economy and Finance personnel
working on financial sector issues so as to build permanent capacity;
(i)   consolidate the budget with the accountant and ensure that it is in line with the project work
plan before submitting it to the Financial Management Committee; and
(j)    provide regular supervision to the Accountant and the Operations Officer.
Appendix 4: Terms of Reference - Outline of a Manual of Procedures
The manual of procedures should be comprehensive with all the relevant information pertinent to
ensure an efficient financial management, good bookkeeping and proper control over the project assets.
The main features of a manual would include:
* organizational structure of the project (organigram)
* detailed description of key functions and profile of potential position holders
* schematic representation of the accounting system
* chart of account and main accounts
* description of the functioning of the main accounts
* accounting principles for the preparation of the financial statements
* type, format, and content of financial statements as well as periodicity
* procurement procedures
* budgetary process (preparation, execution, analysis)
* description of main transactions cycles
* actual execution of tasks
* circuit of documents (flowcharts, sample forms used)



49
* control environment and procedures for an efficient internal control system
* human resources function (recruitment, periodic evaluation, incentives system, firings,
warnings, etc.)
The necessary elements conducive to a transparent and efficient financial management system
should be included in the Manual. Adequate attention should be given to the accounting software to be
adopted. Development projects, in general, require an integrated financial management system with the
following modules:
* General accounting system;
* Cost accounting system (if necessary);
*  Budgetary system, credit utilization monitoring by financing sources, components and
categories, fixed assets management;
* Procurement monitoring;
* Human resources management.
The Manual should describe the mechanisms through which the modules above are taken into
account by the accounting software. It is highly recommended that the software operates under Window.
The software should have the capacity to produce in addition to the normal financial statements all the
PMR reports as requested under LACI.
Attention should be paid to:
*  The project organization chart, along with the detail regarding the FSPAU, i.e., staff
complement, competence and qualification required, etc.;
* Detailed description of key positions along with a proper allocation of tasks within the FSPAU.
It is highly recommended to provide the profile of the main office holders in the key positions;
* The manual should clarify which accounting system will be followed as well as outline its main
features.
A description of the main transactions cycles provides a better understanding of their accounting
treatment. Recording of transactions should be supported by a detailed flowchart highlighting: (a) origin;
(b) processing; (c) responsibility at different stages; and (d) final disposal. The main controls should be
highlighted along with the forms to be used. A sample of the forms should appear in the annexes to the
Manual.
Detailed presentation of the budgetary process. Responsibility over preparation and
consolidation should be clearly stated. In practice, component managers are responsible for preparation.
The timing of budget preparation on a bar chart is compulsory: starting date, submission to IDA for
approval, etc. Actual step by step procedures for the preparation of both the Investment and recurring
budgets should be stated, as well as the determination of the variances at the end of the periods.
The sequencing of the text in the Manual should be logical to facilitate the reading and
understanding the transition between various operations/transactions.
The fixed assets management system is compulsory and should be presented along with the
fixed asset register. All cases of fixed asset usage should be described: stolen, destruction, sale, etc.
Procedures for annual or periodic physical inventories should be clearly stated along with the key date
and the committee responsible for the stock taking. The recording of fixed asset acquisition and disposal
should be stated.



50
ANNEX 5-B
COMPLLANCE WITH FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
APPRAISAL TO NEGOTLATIONS: ACTION PLAN
The establishment of the project financial management system (Administrative, Accounting and
Financial Manual of Procedures, recruitment of key accounting staff, initial training, system test, etc)
would be a condition of Credit negotiations. It would consist of two phases: the initial phase consisting of
activities precedent to negotiations and culminating with credit effectiveness assumed to be September
2000, and the final phase (18-month-period) from effectiveness to adoption of PMR-based disbursements.
The action plan below divides the actions to be taken during each of the two phases, and the dates that
they are due to be completed.
Action                                Date due       Responsible
Initial Phase
I   Agreement on the project Coordination structure, the FSPAU and the   April 17, 2000  IDA and Govt.
Job description of key staff
2   Recruitment process of key of the FSPAU (bidding document, IDA  April 17 - June  Govt./IDA
no objection, evaluation and appointment                    2000
3   Agreement on terms of reference for extemal audit and Consulting  April 17, 2000  GovtA/DA
Firm to establish the FSPAU and the Project Financial Management
System (PFMS)
4   Recruitment process of Consulting Firm and Auditors:
* Finalize bidding documents;
* Seek IDA no objection;                                                GOVT
* Publish bids;                                                         GOVT
* Receive and evaluate bids and select winners;                         GOVT
* Seek IDA on selected winners.                      May 31, 2000
5   Appointment of Exteral Auditors                             May 31, 2000       GOVT
6   Appointment of Consulting Firm to design and establish FSPAU and
PFMS                                                        May 31, 2000      GOVT
7   Consulting Firm starts Preparation of Administrative, Accounting &
Financial Management Manual describing accounting systems and  June 1, 2000
procedures, internal controls and funds flow processes:                       Consulting
* First draft for IDA comments;                      June, 2000         Firm/ Govt./
* Final draft incorporating IDA comments             June 30,2000       IDA
8   Installation of Program Financial Management system (operationalize  June I - July 31,    Consulting
the Manual)                                                 2000              firm/FSPAU
* Finalization of a Chart of Accounts;                                  and Govt.
* Parametrage of software and agreement on financial
reporting format/content;
* Test of Financial Management System based on PPF
operations and produce opening financial statements;
* Set up all bank accounts (Special Account (SA), Project
Account PA), Imprest system, etc.) and
* Continue test for the first semester and produce monthly    July I - 31, 2000
reports.
9   External Auditors review the Program Financial Management system   July 15 - 31, 2000   FSPAU/IDA
for soundness and reliability.



51
Action                                Date due        Responsible
10  Implementation of Auditors recommendations                   July 15 - 31,2000   FSPAU
I   IDA Financial Management System (FMS) carries out the final  July 15 - 31, 2000   IDA and
Assessment of the Project Financial Management system, issues the               FAPAU
LACI sign-off Certificate along with the 18-month action plan for
adopting PMR-based disbursement
12  Consulting Firm conducts initial training of staff           July 2000          Consulting
Firm
13  Project Effectiveness.                                       September 2000    IDA/LEGAF
Final Phase
14  Review Project financial management at implementation and make  6' month into   IDA/AFTQK
corrections as required:                                    implementation
+ Beef up and accelerate training of staff;
* Reinforce PFMS eliminate redundancies;
* Update 18-month action plan.
15  First Project financial statement prepared                   December 31,2000   FSPAU
16  Review Project audit reports and follow on implementation of  July, 2001        IDA/AFTQK
recommendations.
17  Start PMR on a parallel basis. Second full-fledged PFMS assessment   12"' month into  IDA/AFTQK
to ensure compliance with the 18-month action is on target.  implementation
18  Update PFMS and continue PMR-based disbursements on a parallel   1 5n' month into
basis,                                                       implementation     PSPAU/IDA
19  Third full-fledged PFMS assessment and initiation of PMR-based  18' month into  PSPAU/IDA
disbursement (LACI).                                        implementation
20  PMRs issued on a quarterly basis.                            Until closing      PSPAU
Appendix 6:  Terms of Reference - Project Accountant
Mission
The accountant is responsible for the actual bookkeeping function of the project. He should ensure
that all the accounting books and registers are up to date and properly safeguarded..
Task description
The main tasks are the followings:
*  project bookkeeping for financial and general accounting purposes;
*  participation in the preparation of the project annual budget;
.  preparation of the periodic financial reports (months, quarters, etc.)
* preparation of withdrawal application for IDA;
* treasury management and monitoring of Credit account;
* preparation of payment checks to suppliers and consultants;
* controls of payment checks to personnel;
* monthly bank reconciliations;
* petty cash management and proper recording of related transactions;
* controls of supporting document for validity and accuracy prior to transactions recordings
* payment of suppliers invoices following verification;
* assurance that books and records and kept daily and are up-to-date;



52
* assurance that accounting supporting documents are properly filed;
* regular meetings with Project Coordinator to review and discuss financial management issues as
well as cash management
* preparation and monitoring of annul audits.
Reports
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the PAD provide sufficient information regarding
the production of project financial reports and project management reports. The accountant is responsible
for the actual production of those reports as well as the preparation of any financial forecast required
under the project. He should ensure that all the relevant documents and information are given to the
auditors during their missions.
Required qualifications
* college graduate with at least three (3) years of accounting courses. Hold an accounting degree
(titulaire d'un BTS de comptabilite);
* at least two (2) year of experience in a similar position;
* good knowledge of accounting in a financial environment;
* good knowledge of development project financing mechanisms;
* good knowledge of International Financial Institutions procedures for project financing;
* familiar with computer and experience with an accounting software;
* good experience in team work.
Employment Conditions
* Post: Bamako, Mali
* Contract duration: five (5) years
Appendix 7: Terms of Reference - Financial Sector Policy and Advisory Unit
The general functions of the Financial Sector Policy and Advisory Unit are to:
(a) ensure that all the components of the Financial Sector Development Project are implemented
in an efficient and timely manner according to the schedule agreed upon between the World
Bank and the government as well as the various institutions involved in the project;
(b) for that purpose, monitor on a continuing basis the implementation of each project component
in the financial sector in order to identify at an early stage possible delays in implementation
and take preventive actions;
(c) if appropriate, bring immediately to the attention of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
the World Bank possible causes for delays and recommend specific actions to be taken to
prevent such delays;
(d) participate actively with each institution involved in the project in the steps to be taken for the
implementation of each components;



53
(e)  review, once a month, with each of the institutions involved in the project, the status of the
components that it is responsible for and agree upon actions to be taken for the
implementation of these components;
(f)  submit monthly reports to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the World Bank on
progress made in the implementation of each project component;
(g)  advise the Minister of Economy and Finance and the World Bank on any issue of significance
in the financial sector;
(h)  follow up, on behalf on the Minister of Economy and Finance, on recommendations made by
the Commission Bancaire, CIMA, CIPRES and BCEAO; and
(i)  coordinate the training activities of the Ministry of Economy and Finance personnel working
on financial sector issues so as to build permanent capacity.



54
ANNEX 6
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
All goods, works if any, and services under the credit would be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines for goods, works and services (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits,
January 1995 ; revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999; and Guidelines
for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997; revised
September 1997 and January 1999. The management of procurement under the project would be the
responsibility of the FSPAU, in association with counterpart agencies.
Malian procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations. For ICB, the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods will be used.
For consulting services, the Bank's standard Request for Proposal including model of letter of invitation,
Information to Consultants, and standard contracts, will be used. NCB advertised locally will be carried
out in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
A Country Procurement Assessment Report was prepared in December 1998 and found that Mali
possesses a corpus of legislation and regulation that is remarkable for the sub-region. The Government
Procurement Code was revised in 1995 in consultation with the Bank and is generally sound. It was
slightly revised in September 1999, without any major changes. However, there is still potential for
major improvement in the public sector's efficiency and the transparency of its procurement processes.
In general, Mali's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines. No
special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for ICB, since Mali
allows IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. NCB
advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Mali's procurement laws and regulations,
acceptable to IDA provided that: (a) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (minimum four
weeks); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualification criteria are clearly specified in bidding documents; (c)
no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (d) eligible firms are not precluded from
participation; (e) award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder provided the latter has the
minimum specified technical and financial capabilities; and (vi) prior to issuing the first three calls for
bids, draft bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
In Mali, all public procurement of works, goods and services on behalf of the state, government
organizations, public enterprises and local governments should be procured in accordance to the general
rules established by Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Decree n. 95-401/P-RM of November 10, 1995 related to
public procurement code. Order No. 97/1037 specifies the form in which the Procurement Code is to be
applied: Overall, government procurement is decentralized among various departments and enterprises,
and is one of the functions of the DAFs in the various departments, these being responsible for the
budgets, planning contracts, preparing and issuing invitations to bid, receiving, opening, and evaluating
bids, recommending the award of contracts, and monitoring the respective projects.
All contracts above a contract value of 10,000,000 CFCA (approximately 17,000 USD) fall under
the procurement code and the related procurement documents need to be submitted to Office of the
Director General of Procurement (Direction Generale des Marches Publics (DGMP)). Contracts for
works and goods with a contract value equal or less than 250 millions FCFA, and consultant contracts
equal or less than 75 millions FCFA are approved by the DGMP. Contracts for works and goods with a
contract value above 250 millions FCFA up to I billion FCFA need the approval of the Minister of



55
Finances, while contracts with a value above I billion FCFA need a Council of Ministers approval.
Contracts for consultant services with a contract value above 75 millions FCFA up to 750 millions FCFA
need to be approved by the Minister of Finance, while contracts with a value above 750 millions FCFA
need Council of Ministers approval. The current system is well designed, but suffers from a degree of
cumbersome procedures, lack of efficiency and transparency. The Country Procurement Assessment
Review and a recently approved Institutional Development Grant have both addressed problems with the
capacity of the DGMP and DAFs provided strengthening of its institutional capacity.
In view of the above, procurement under this project will be carried by the procurement specialist to
be recruited into the FSPAU and an Evaluation Commission. The Evaluation Commission will receive
and evaluate all offers, attribute the contracts. To speed up the implementation of project activities, the
procurement powers will solely be handled by the FSPAU and no prior approval will be needed from
DGMP. This arrangement will expedite procurement under this project while maintaining transparency in
the process of contract awarding. It is particularly suited for this technical assistance project given the
high importance of transparency, and the specificity of each contract. The Evaluation Commission's
members would change to include the specific expertise required and the beneficiaries for each contract.
This Evaluation Commission will work closely with the Project Director and the Procurement Specialist,
recruited into the FSPAU. The Procurement Specialist will prepare all bidding documents and contracts
and will expeditiously handle all procurement matters for the project.
Table 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ thousands, including contingencies)
Category              NCB        ICB      Other       NBF       TOTAL
1. Civil Works                     161          0         0            0       161
(145)       (0)       (0)          (0)    (145)
2. Equipment/Materials                0      1,294        0            0      1,294
(0)   (1,165)       (0)          (0)   (1,165)
3. Consultants                        0          0    12,260           0    12,260
(0)       (0)  (12,260)          (0)  (12,260)
4. Training                           0          0     4,293           0    4,293
(0)       (0)   (2,770)          (0)   (2,770)
5. Operating Costs                    0         0     4,539            0     4,539
(0)       (0)   (4,085)          (0)   (4,085)
6. PPF                                0         0       530                    530
(0)       (0)    (530)                   (530)
TOTAL                               161      1,294   21,622            0   23,077
(145)    (1,165)  (19,645)         (0)  (20,955)
* Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
* ICB = International Competitive Bidding
* NCB = National Competitive Bidding
+ N.B.F.= Not Bank financed
* IDA financing will only fund goods and consultants' services procured under Bank guidelines.
* "Goods" include purchase of equipment, related supplies and vehicles.
* "Operating Costs" include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including annual audits, office supplies, communication costs, travel
allowance of project staff, salaries of project management unit, but excluding salaries of the borrower's
civil servants.
(a) National/International Shopping procedures or IAPSO



56
A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared for the project and will be finalized
and published in Development Business after Board approval and updated annually. It will show all
expected procurement contracts over US$200,000. Consultant services will also be advertised in
specialized magazines to broaden the potential for expressions of interest. Specific procurement notices
will also be published in international and/or national papers. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
and Requests for Proposals would be used.
Procurement Management. Each project component would be implemented by a Component
Project Manager located in the Ministry of Economy and Finance and working closely with the Project
Coordinator. Each Component Project Manager would have primary responsibility for the execution of
its respective components of the project. The FSPAU, which would include a procurement specialist,
would provide procurement support. The Project Coordinator, with the assistance of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance counterpart, would: (a) prepare and update the procurement plan for the project
(See Table 6-A); (b) monitor the procurement; and (c) work with the counterpart institutions and the
Project Component Managers on: (a) the preparation of bidding documents and advertisements for goods
and works contracts and requests for proposals for consulting assignments; and (b) bid opening and
evaluation. The Project Coordinator would also advise the counterpart institutions and the Project
Component Managers on procedural matters. The Project Coordinator and each project Component
Manager should demonstrate their capacity to manage a great amount of contracts as this will be the case
in the current project. In this respect, they should prepare promptly some key documents such as:
standard Terms of References for repetitive consultancy services, data on qualified consultants aimed at
the establishment of diverse short-lists, model bidding documents for NCB, model letter of invitation for
International or National Shopping, and any other standard documents for repetitive actions.
Civil Works. The project provides US$150,000 for civil works, which comprises the renovation of
an existing building that will house the FSPAU. The works would be procured using the National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure.
Goods and Equipment. Contracts for goods with an individual value of US$100,000 or above will
be awarded on the basis of ICB. To the extent practicable smaller contracts would be combined into
packages up to US$100,000 and procured under NCB. Goods to be used by consultants (vehicles,
computers, office supplies, and office rental) will be provided by the consultants as part of their
proposals. on the basis of minimum specifications. Contracts costing less than US$50,000 which
comprise a limited number of vehicles, furniture, PCs and office equipment, for an aggregate value of
US$450,000 would be procured using National/International Shopping procedure and/or the Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office of the UNDP (IASPO). The aggregate value has a limitative nature and
would not be exceeded without prior IDA non-objection. The FSAPU would maintain a procurement
tracking system for this purpose.
Consultant Services. The total cost of consultants services is estimated at US$10,280.000
equivalent, including advisory services for monetary management and development of insurance and
contractual savings reform. Consultant services costing US$100,000 or above would be selected through
the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method using an internationally based short-list.
Consultants services for firms costing less than US$100,000 but less than US$80,000 may be advertised
nationally. For these assignments, the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants provided
that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to
participate are not excluded from consideration. Consultant services for studies estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$725,000 equivalent may be selected
on the basis of comparing qualifications of consultants/ individual consultants who have expressed an
interest in the job or who have been identified. The aggregate value has a limitative nature and would not
be exceeded without prior IDA non-objection. For this purpose, the FSAPU would maintain a system to



57
track the number of consulting services contracted on this basis. Consultants for financial audits and
services estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract would be selected using the Least
Cost Selection method. The firm with the lowest price would be selected, provided its technical proposal
received the minimum mark required.
Training. Training services, estimated at approximately US$1,420,000, including local and
foreign training, workshops and twinning arrangements, would be contracted on the basis of IDA-
approved programs which would identify a training curriculum, personnel to be trained, duration of
training, institutions where training would be conducted, estimated cost of training, etc. Such programs
would be submitted to IDA for prior review and clearance on a quarterly basis.
Procurement Plan. A procurement plan, which includes the pertinent information on all goods,
works and services to be contracted under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the
procurement process, is being prepared by the Borrower and would be submitted to IDA in its final
version as a condition for effectiveness. The procurement schedule would be updated every six months
and submitted to IDA.
Procurement Capacity. Since the FSPAU would be a new unit, no capacity assessment could be
undertaken. However, to ensure that the FSPAU will have the necessary procurement capacity, an
experienced procurement specialist will be contracted to assist the Project Coordinator. In addition, the
FSPAU will be given extensive training in IDA procurement rules and practices, financed by the Credit.
To alleviate time pressure on the FSPAU during periods when several Requests for Proposals are to be
launched or evaluated, the FSPAU may seek the assistance of short term procurement assistance from a
firm or individuals, selected on the basis of consultant qualifications/ comparison of CV in the case of
individuals. During the first two years of the project, procurement supervision will be intensive, with at
least half-yearly missions and intermittent reviews through the Resident Mission. At the end of the first
year, a formal procurement capacity assessment will be made to identify weaknesses and establish a plan
of actions to strengthen the procurement capacity of the FSPAU, if needed.
Review by IDA. All contracts for goods and works estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be
subject to prior review, including bidding documents draft contracts and technical specifications, and bid
evaluation reports prior to contract award. The first three contracts for goods costing less than US$50,000
will also be subject to IDA prior review, to ensure that the FSPAU applies the procurement procedures
correctly.
The Terms of Reference for all consulting assignments, irrespective of value, would be subject to
prior IDA review. Prior review, which generally includes short list(s), budgets, selection procedures and
criteria, letters of invitation, evaluation reports and draft contracts, will be required for: (a) all contracts
with firms estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent per contract or above; (b) all contracts with
individuals estimated to costs US$50,000 equivalent per contract or above; (c) single source selection of
consulting firms or individual consultants regardless of contract values; (d) amendments of contracts for
the employment of firms or individuals raising the respective total contract value to US$100,000 or
US$50,000 equivalent or above; and (e) training abroad and in-country, workshops and study tours, the
program - containing the names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training
and institution selection. The first three contracts costing less than $50,000 for consultants selected on a
qualification basis will also be subject to prior review.
Contracts, which are not subject to prior review, would be selectively reviewed by IDA during
project implementation and would be govemed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I
to the Guidelines.



58
Table 2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ Equivalent)
Expenditure        Contract Value        Procurement Method           Contracts Subject to Prior
Category           (Threshold)                                    Review/ Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
Goods             100,000 or more        ICB                        All
<50,000 <100,000       NCB
<50,000                IS/NSIAPSO                 First three contracts to be prior-
reviewed. All others to be post-
review.
Civil Works       <200,000               NCB                        All
Consultants
Firms           200,000 or more        QCBS (International        All
Advert)
>100,000 <200,000      QCBS (International        All
Shortlist)
>50,000 <100,000       QCBS (National Advert)     All
<50,000                CQ                         First three contracts to be prior-
reviewed. All others to be post-
review.
Individuals    <s,000                  IC                         All
<50,000                IC                         All
Firms/         No threshold            Single source              All
Individuals
CQ - Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
IC- Selection of individual consultants
ICB- Intemational Competitive Bidding
QCBS - Quality and Cost-based Selection
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
IS - International Shopping
NS - National Shopping
Note:  All sole source assignments would be subject to prior review.
All TORs for consulting assignments would be subject to prior review
Procurement Risk Level:   High, but given the mitigating measures to strengthen the
procurement capacity of the FSPAU, to be taken during the project, and prudent prior review levels, this
risk may be considered moderate.
Disbursements
The Credit would be disbursed over a period of five years, taking into account that the Credit
closing date will be six months after the completion date. As long as disbursements are made under
traditional disbursement procedures (as opposed to the PMR based disbursements), they would be fully
documented at the time of submission of withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against
SOEs.



59
Table 3: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
(in thousands of US$)
Category of Expenditures Amount           Financing
1. Civil Works                134 90% of expenditures
2. Equipment/materials     1,1061 90% of expenditures
3. Consultants             11,150 100% of expenditures
4. Training                 2,520 90% of amounts disbursed
5. Operating costs          3,700 90 % of amounts disbursed
6. PPF                        530 n.a
7. Unallocated              1,860 n.a.
TOTAL                      20,955 _
Special Accounts
Under Traditional Procedures. In order to facilitate project implementation, the government
will open a Special Account in a local commercial bank by the FSPAU. The authorized allocation (CFAF
900,000,000) will cover four months of eligible expenditures.  Upon effectiveness, an amount
representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation will be deposited into the Special Account.
Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly by the FSPAU. The applications will include
derails identifying the amounts withdrawn for each beneficiary.
Under Project Management Report (PMR) Disbursements. Upon receipt of each application for
withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount
so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the PMR accompanying
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month
period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to
the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent
of dollar three million ($3,000,000).
Use of SOEs. Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation except for
contracts below the equivalent of US$100,000 equivalent each for works and goods, US$100,000 for
consulting firms and US$50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental operating
costs for which disbursements would be based on SOEs. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by the borrower at the FSPAU for review by IDA missions and external auditors. All
expenditures above the threshold indicated above will be eligible for direct payment.
Institutional Arrangement. The project FSPAU will be established as a separate entity from the
existing structure of the Ministry of Finances. A Financial Management expert has been recruited to
assist in the design and establishment of the FSPAU as a small administrative and finance unit staffed
with competent experienced Coordinator, accountant and financial manager, operations officer,
administrative assistant, to be recruited through a competitive and transparent process. The FSPAU will
be responsible for project administrative and technical coordination as well as financial management.
The final configuration of the FSPAU, the profile of the staff as well as their job description, and the
relevant intemal control system will be determined and fully described in the Manual of procedures to be
prepared by the Financial Management expert. A Financial Management Committee, an ad-hoc body
composed representatives of BCEAO, MoEF, and the Project Coordinator as its Secretary, will provide
supervision and monitoring.



60
Accounting and Financial Reporting. The FSPAU will maintain the accounting records for the
entire the project. It will also be responsible for the effective and timely production of the annual
financial statements as well as the PMRs. A Financial Management expert would be appointed to design
a computerized accounting and financial management system, based on internationally acceptable
accounting principles acceptable to the Bank. The consultant will also prepare the accompanying
accounting manual, including a proper chart of accounts, the various transaction cycles, the format,
content and periodicity of the various financial statements to be produced, the budgetary procedures and
process (preparation, monitoring, variance analysis, etc.), and the relevant internal controls.  The
consultant will be responsible for the initial training of the accounting and financial management staff on
the efficient operation of the computerized accounting system. S/he will also be responsible for the
preparation of a training program in financial management with an implementation timetable for the
duration of the project. The selection of the accounting software will ensure that the system is capable of
not only producing the standards financial statements, but also the PMRs in compliance with Financial
Management Initiative (FMI). Before project effectiveness, an IDA Financial Management Specialist
will carry out a second assessment of the project financial management system (adequacy and
competence of the accounting and financial staff, relevance of the manual of procedures, completeness of
the accounting system) to determine its soundness and capability to provide accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures. The assessment of the financial management
system is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Since the FSPAU is still under establishment and has not yet been fully tested, it was agreed not to
proceed directly with PMR-based disbursement method in year 1. It was also agreed however, to design
the financial management system so that it can produce, in addition to the basic financial statements and
any other relevant financial report, the PMR as required under the FMI. Adequate provisions will be
made to train the accounting and financial staff to that end during the first 18-month of the project
implementation. PMR reports will start toward the end of the second year of implementation and
continue till completion as stated in the time-bound action plan of Annex 5B. This will require that IDA
carry out at the end of the first year of implementation, a comprehensive and detailed assessment of the
project financial management to determine its full readiness for PMR. A second assessment will be
carried out at the end of the first semester into the second year of implementation to evaluate the
effectiveness of the transition to full PMR. Before switching to PMR however, the project will still be
required to submit, in addition to its financial statements, five quarterly reports, namely a Summary of
Sources and Uses of Funds, a Contract Expenditure Report - Goods & Works, a Contract Expenditure
Report - Consultants, a Procurement Management, Report - Goods & Works, and a Procurement
Management Report - Consultants. All procurement documents, contracts, and invoices would be
maintained separately by the FSPAU and be made accessible to supervision missions and auditors.
Auditing. During negotiations, the government would provide assurance that: (a) project accounts
will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing standards by an experienced and
internationally recognized auditing firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports and related project accounts
will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of the project fiscal year; (b) in addition to the
standard short form report with their opinion, the auditors will be required to: (a) carry out a
comprehensive review of all the SOEs, as well as the internal control procedures governing their
preparation for the relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (b) review the
management and utilization of the special account and express a separate opinion thereon as well; (c) the
auditors will also carry out an in-depth review of the internal control system of the project with a view to
identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for
improvement. The results of this review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted
along with the audit reports; and (d) finally, the auditors will issue a report on the performance of the
FSPAU. This report will be submitted with the audit reports.



61
Supervision. The project will require intensive supervision during the first two years when
implementation arrangements would be put to the test. An annual review meeting, in addition to the two
supervision missions, will be scheduled during the first year to monitor progress and coordinate with the
government. Between supervision missions, the project will be monitored very closely during the first
year by the Bank Office to ensure that it is on track. A mid-term review, including a full technical and
financial audit of the project, as well as beneficiary assessment, will be conducted no later than 36 months
into implementation.



Table 3: Procurement Plan for Goods and Works
LIST AND                           BIDS                     EVALUATION OF BIDDING
SPECIFICATIONS                                                        REPORTS
DESCRIPTION OF GooDs          PROCURE-    EST.    PLANNED   DATE OF   DATE OF   DATE OF   DATE OF   INVITA- OPENING OF  DATE OF    DATE OF   AMOUNT CONTRACT DELIVERY
MENT    AMOUNT        AND    TRANSMIS-    NON-   TRANSMIS-   NON-    TION TO            BIDS     TRANSMIS-    NON-          OF       SIGNA-      DATE
METHOD       OF       ACTUAL      SION    OBJECTION    SION    OBJECTION    BID                       SION     OBJECTION CONTRACT   TURE
CONTRACT   DATES                                                                                                   USS)      DATE
US$)
1. Computers and other equipment for MoEF  NCB      100.000    Planned    7/5/00     7/12/00     7/5/00     7/12/00    7/14/00    8/14/00    8/24/00     8/31/00               9/4/00     11/3/00
ActUal
2. Training materials for financial institutions    NCB  50.000    Planned    7/5/00  7/12/00    7/5/00     7/12/00    7/14/00    8/14/00    8/24/00     8/31/00                9/4/00    11/3/00
Actual
3. Computers for staff of MoEF and        NCB       77.000    Planned     7/5/00     7/12/00     7/5/00     7/12/00    7/14/00    8/14/00    8/24/00     8/31/00                9/4/00    11/3/00
other equipment to support the Insurance                       Actual
Division
4. Equipment for CDC and INPS             ICB       155.000    Planned    7/1o/00    7/17/00     7/10/00    7/17/00    7/19/00    8/21/00     9/5/00     9/12/00               9/15/00    11/15/00
Actual
5. 4x4 vehicles for CAS/SFD                SN       33.000    Planned    7/20/00     7/27/00      N/A        N/A       7/28/00    8/15/00      N/A        N/A                  8/17/00    9/18/00
Actual  I
6. Computers, printers, laptops, network for  SN     16.000    Planned    7/20/00    7/27/00      N/A        N/A       7/28/00    8/15/00      N/A         N/A                 8/17/00    9/18/00  j
CAS/SFD                                                        Actual
7. Other equipment for CAS/SFD             SN        9.000     Planed    7/20/00     7/27/00      N/A        N/A       7/28/00    8/15/00      N/A        N/A                  8/17/00    9/18/00
Actual                         I___I__                                            _   I                        __  __
8. Computers and printers for Insurance    SN       40.000    Planned    7/25/00      8/1/00      N/A        N/A       8/2/00    8/21/00      N/A         N/A                  8/23/00    9/25/00
Division                                           ;           Actual                                                 _
9. Computers, printers and MIS network    NCB       104.000    Planned    7/25/00     8/1/00     7/25/00     8/1/00    8/3/00     9/4/00     9/21/00     9/28/00                10/2/00    12/2/00
for FSPAU                                                      Actual
10. Equipment and fumiture of FSPAU       NCB       40.000    Planned    7/25/00      8/1/00      N/A        N/A       8/2/00    8/21/00      N/A         N/A                  8/23/00    9/25/00
Actual
II. 4x4 vehicle and motor cycles for FSPAU  NCB     40.000    Planned    7/25/00      8/1/00      N/A        N/A       8/2/00    8/21/00      N/A         N/A                  8/23/00    9/25/00
Actual
12. Computers for legal professionals     NCR       40.000    Planned     8/1/00      8/8/00      N/A        N/A      8/10/00    8/28/00      N/A         N/A                  8/30/00    10/2/00
Actual
13. Renovation of training center         NCB       150.000    Planned    7/3/00     7/17/00     7/3/00     7/17/00    7/19/00    8/21/00     9/4/00     9/18/00               9/25/00    1/50
_ _ _       _ _   A ctual   _  _  _     _  _  _     _  _  _   _  _  _      _  _      _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _ _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
SN: Shopping National



Table 4 (1): Procurement Plan for Consultanbt - 2001-2002
TERMS OF           SHORT LIST                     INVITATION TO BID                 TECHNICAL (T) AND FINAL (F)               CONTRACT NEGOTIATION
REFERENCE                                                                                   EvALuATION
DESCRIPTION OF  PROCURE-   EST.   PLANNED  ADVER-  DATE OF  DATE OF  DATE OF    No    DATE OF    No    DATE OF  DATE OF  DATE OF  DATE OF  DATE OF   NON-   DATE OF  DATE OF  DATE OF  DATE OF  END OF
SERVICES       MENT   AMouNT    AND   nSEMENT/ RANSMIS   NON-    TRANS-  OBJEc-   TRANS-   OBJEc-  BIDDING  OFENING TRANSMIS-   No    TRANSMIS OrJEC-  RANSMIS    NO                           ONTRACT  BEGIN-   CON-
METHOD  OF CON-  ACTUAL  ExPREs-   SION    OBJEC-  MISSION    TION    MISSION    TION    INVITA-  OF TECH   SION OF   OBJEC-  -SION OF  ION DATE SION OF   OBJEC-   SIGNA-  NING OF   TRACT
litACT    DATES   SION OF               TION               DATE                DATE      TION    YROpO-   TECH.    TION         FINAN.  OF FINAN.  NEGO-    TION       TURE      CON-    DATE
(USS)             INTEREST                                                                        SALS    EVALUA-  TECH.  EVALUA- VALUATI  TIATED                               TRACT
TION     EVAJL    TION        ON     ONTRACT
L Privatization     SQC    750.000   Planned  03/07/00'  7/17/00   7/31/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00   9/18/00   11/16/00   11/30/00   12/8/00  12/15/00  12/22/00   1/10/01   1/17/01  1/25/2001  2/1/01   12/31/02
advasers.- BIM                         Actual                                    *                   *
2. Privatization     SQC    750.000   Planned  03/07/00*  7/17/00   7/31/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00   9/18/00   11/16/00  11/30/00   12/8/00  12/15/00  12/22/00   1/10/01   1/17/01  1/25/2001  2/1/01   12/31/02
advisers - BCS                         Actual                                    '
3. Legal adviser -   SQC      150.00   Plainned  03/07/001  7/17/00   7/31/00  30/08/00*  9/15/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00   9/18/00   11/16/00   11/30/00   12/8/00  12/15/00  12/22/00   1/10/01   1/17/01  1/25/2001   2/1/01   12/31/02
BRA                                    Actual
4. Legal adviser -   SQC     150.000   Planned  03/07/00*  7/17/00   7/31/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00  30/08/00'  9/15/00   9/18/00   11/16/00   11/30/00   12/8/00  12/15/00  12/22/00   1/10/01   1/17/01  1/25/2001   2/1/01   12/31/02
BCS                                    Actual                *                                       a
5. Financial and    SMC    150.000   Planned    N/A   03/07/00'  7/17/00  03/07/00   7/17/00  03/07/00'  7/17/00   7/18/00   8/17/00   8/24/00   8/31/00   9M/00    9/12/00   9/20/00   9/25/00   10/2/00   10/2/00   11/30/00
institutional audit -                  Actual                *                                       a
CRM
6.inancial and      SMC      40.000   Planned    N/A   03/07/00*  7/17/00  03/07/00'  7/17/00  03/07/00'  7/17/00   7/18/00   8/17/00   8/24/00   8/31/00   9/7/00    9/12/00   9/20/00   9/25/00   10/2/00   10/2/00   11/30/00
institutional audit -                  Actual                *                   *                   *
7 VFancial and      SMC      40.000   Planned    N/A   03/07/00*  7/17/00  03/07/00'  7/17/00  03/07/00'  7/17/00   7/18/00   8/17/00    8/24/00   8/31/00   9/l/00    9/12/00   9/20/00   9/25/00   10/2/00   10/2/00   11/30/001
institutional audit -                  Actual                '
CDC
8. Viability study -  SQC              Planned    N/A   10/07/00*  7/25/00  10/07/00'  7/25/00  10/07/00'  7/25/00   7/26/00   8/24/00    9/7oo    9/14/00   9/21/00   9/26/00   10/3/00   10/6/00   10/10/00  10/11/00   1/10/01
BiM                                    Actual                *
9. Concept and       SQC               Planned    N/A   10/07/00'  7/25/00  10/07/00'  7/25/00  10/07/00'  7/25/00   7/26/00   8/24/00    9/7/00    9/14/00   9/21/00   9/26/00   10/3/00   10/6/00   10/10/00  10/11/00  1/10/01
informuation program                   Actual                                    C*
Cl: Individual Selection of Consultants (Comparaison of CV)             -        ':sollicitation of interest based on importance of mission
SQC: Selection based on technical competence and cost                           *: short list, TORs request for proposals will be sent together
SQ: Selection based on qualification of consultants



Table 4 (2): Procurement Plan for Consultants (2003-2005)
LISTE AND SPECIFICATIONS                       BIDS                          EVALUATION REPORT OF
________  I______ L______I                                                                                                   OFFERS
DEsCRIPTlON OF GOODS          PROCURE-   EST. AMOUNT  LANNED AND   DATE OF          DATE OF      DATE OF    DATE OF       DATE OF    OPENING OF   DATE OF   DATE OF NON  CONTRACT         DATE OF       DELIVERY
MENT METHtOD OF CONTRACT   ACTUAL         TRASMIS-       NON-      TRANSMNS-      NON      INVITATION TO    BIDS      ROANSM.ISSIO  OBJECTION    AMOUNT   SIGNATURE OF       DATE
_________  (uSS)  DATES   SION.    OBJECtON        SION     OBJECTION        BID                       N                       (uS5)      CONTRACT
1. Computer and other equipment for   NCB              100.000 Planned            7/5/00     7/12/00       7/5/00    7/12/00        7/14/00     8/14/00      8/24/00     8/31/00                      9/4/00      11/3/00
MoEF                                                           Actual
2. Training material for financial     NCB              50.000 Planned            7/5/00      7/12/00      7/5/00     7/12/00        7/14/00    8/14/00      8/24/00      8/1/00                      9/4/00       11/3/00
institutions                                                   Actual
3. Computers for staff of MoEF and     NCB              77.000 Planned         7/5/00      7/12/00      7/5/00        7/12/00        7/14/00    8/14/00      8/24/00      8/31/00                     9/4/00       11/3/00
Actual
Other equipment to support the
Insurance Division
4. Equipment: MIS /CDC, INPS           ICB             155.000 Planned           7/10/00      7/17/00     7/10/00     7/17/00        7/19/00    8/21/00       9/5/00      9/12/00                    9/15/00      11/15/00
Actual
5. 4x4 vehicules for CDC/SFD            SN              33.000 Planned           7/20/00      7/27/00        N/A         N/A        7/28/00     8/15/00         N/A         N/A                      8/17/00       9/18/00
.________      ________    Actual
6. Computers, printers, laptops, network  SN            16.000 Planned           7/20/00      7/27/00        N/A         N/A         7/28/00    8/15/00         N/A          N/A                     8/17/00       9/18/00
for CAS/SFD                                                    Actual                                    ___
7. Other equipment for CAS/SFD          SN               9.000 Planned           7/20/00      7/27/00        N/A        N/A          7/28/00    8/15/00         N/A         N/A                      8/17/00       9/18/00
____'_ Actual                                                                                                                                                             08
8. Computers and printers for Bankming  SN              40.000 Planned           7/25/00       8/1/00        N/A        N/A           8/2/00    8/21/00         N/A         N/A                      8/23/00       9/25/00
Directorate and Insurance Directorate                          Actual
9. Computers, printers and M1S network  NCB            104.000 Planned           7/25/00       8/1/00     7/25/00      8/1/00         88//00     9/4/00      9/21/00      9/28/00                    10/2/00       12/2/00
for FSPAU                                                      Actual
10. Furniture and equipment for        SN              40.000 Planned           7/25/00       8/1/00        N/A         N/A          8/2/00     8/21/00        N/A          N/A                     8/23/00       9/25/00
FSPAU                                                          Actual
11. 4x4 vehicle and motorcycle for     SN               40.000 Planned           7/25/00       8/1/00        N/A        N/A           8/2/00    8/21/00         N/A         N/A                      8/23/00       9/25/00
FSPAU                                                          Actual
12. Computers for legal professionals   SN              40.000 Planned            8/1/00       8/8/00        N/A        N/A          8/10/00    8/28/00         N/A          N/A                     8/30/00       10/2/00
ActualI
13. Renovation of training center     NCB              150.000 Planned            7/3/00     7/17/00       7/3/00     7/17/00        7/19/00    8/21/00       9/4/00      9/18/00                    9/25/00       1/25/01
Actual
ICB: international Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
SN: Shopping National



65
ANNEX 7
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget                            Planned                   Actual
(US$000)
FY96 LENP                          92.7                    136.3
FY97 LENP                          56.4                    66.2
FY98 LENP                          101.3                   111.7
FY99 LENP                          91.1                    53.4
FY99 LENN
FY2001 SUPV
B. Project Schedule                          Planned                  Actual
*  Concept Review Meeting                                       October 15, 1998
*  Draft PID                                                    September 28, 1998
*  Depart Pre-appraisal                                         November 9, 1998
*  PAD Decision Meeting            March 20, 2000               March 6, 2000
*  Authorize Appraisal             March 21, 2000               March 6, 2000
*  Update PID                      March 21, 2000               March 6, 2000
*  Depart Appraisal                April 17, 2000               April 2, 2000
*  Invitation to Negotiate         May 14, 2000                 May 25, 2000
*  Start Negotiations              May 29,2000                  May 30, 2000
*  Board Presentation              June 27, 2000                June 27, 2000
*  Est. Date of Effectiveness      September 30, 2000
Preparation assistance: PPF Nos. Q060-0 and Q060-1 totaling US$500,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project:
Noel K. Tshiani              Financial Specialist, AFTPF
Ann Rennie                   Lead Specialist, AFTPF
Michael Ballhausen           Adviser, FSD
Don Mclsaac                  Principal Financial Specialist, FSD
Ousa Sananikone              Private Sector Development Specialist, PSDSE
Bernard Abeille              Principal Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
Hans Wabnitz                 Counsel, LEGAF
Wolfgang Chadab              Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Siaka Bakayoko               Financial Management Specialist
Diame Youssouf Thiam         Economist, AFMML
Cherif Azi                   Consultant
Ren6e Chao Beroff            Consultant
Jean Nodl Martineau          Consultant
Per Nylev                    Consultant
Muriel Prah                  Language Program Assistant
Judite Femandes              Language Program Assistant
Lucy Kimani                  Information Assistant
Irene Chacon                 Program Assistant



66
ANNEX 8
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
To: Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank Group
Washington, D.C. 20433
Mr. President:
I have the honor to inform you of the intention of the GOM to implement an ambitious program of
reform designed to develop the financial sector over the period 2000-04 through the implementation of a
Project to strengthen the sector. This program will supplement the macroeconomic policies implemented under
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC).
The State has already decided to disengage completely from the banking sector. In order to focus its
action and give it the required transparency, the State has adopted the principle of limiting its participation in
banks' capital to a maximum of 20 percent, including divestitures, during the initial phase of disengagement.
The first phase of bank privatizations -- BMCD, (Banque Malienne de Credit et de Depots), BIM (Banque
Intemationale pour le Mali), and BCS (Banque Commerciales du Sahel) -- will end on December 31, 2001.
During the second phase, through December 31, 2004, the government will divest itself of all its banking assets
by selling the rest of its shares in commercial banks [BMCD, BIM, BCS, and BDM-SA (Banque de
Developpement du Mali)] to the private sector. As for BHM, the Bank for Housing of Mali, (Banque pour
l'Habitat du Mali), the government undertakes to analyze, together with the World Bank, the conclusions to
emerge from a feasibility study of the institution and to take whatever steps are necessary to rehabilitate it and
ensure its long-term viability. In the short term, the government undertakes to review BIIM's interest rate
policy in accordance with market conditions. With respect to BIM, the government has authorized the
provisional manager to restructure the bank completely with a view to completely privatizing it by December
31, 2001 at the latest.
The government has begun privatizing BMCD and expects to complete the first phase of this process by
September 2000. The Minister of Economy and Finance will cease to chair the boards of directors of banks
(i.e. of BDM-SA and BMCD) by June 30, 2000 at the latest.
Through the project, the government intends to help the banking system to improve the quality of the
services offered to clients, help it become more competent and innovative and provide training to upgrade the
skills of workers in the banking sector as regards the range of services offered, reception and informing of
clients, rapid execution of local and international transactions, and monitoring enterprises. The government is
committed to enforcing the recommendations of the Committee on Banking Supervision regarding prudential
safeguards for banks and, in particular, compliance with the exposure diversification ratio, in order to avoid any
risk of systemic crisis.



67
The future absorption of BMCD by BDM-SA will allow the new entity to strengthen its position within
the WAEMU, where the single authorization system entered into force on January 1, 2000. As a result of the
merger, BDM-SA will be large enough to withstand competition from within the community. Such a merger
would in no way impair competition within Mali's own banking system, in which new private banks belonging
to international groups have begun to operate. The government will, moreover, safeguard competition in the
free foreign exchange market. .
In addition, the authorities, together with the Professbnal Association of Banks and Financial
Institutions (Association professionnelle des banques et etablissements financiers, APBEF), are committed to
taking action to revitalize the interbank market, to create other components of a money market, such as
negotiable bills (Treasury bills, certificates of deposit, treasury notes, etc.), and to consolidate the operations of
the Regional Stock Exchange (BRVM) within a framework of strict observance of Central Bank of West
African States (BCEAO) rules. For this purpose, the Banking and Finance Division of the National Treasury
and Public Accounting Department (DNTCP) will be strengthened.
The insurance sector has been entirely privatized. The government intends to help firms in this sector
improve their managerial capacity and to help judges understand the provisions of the CIMA (Inter African
Conference on Insurance Markets) Code more fully. The consolidation of the capital base of the insurance
companies, which is the yardstick of their credibility, requires respect for the provisions of the CIMA Code and
achievement of the market's potential, both in branches already covered and in new branches to be developed.
For the automobile branch, the government is going to undertake publicity campaigns in order to
enhance the effectiveness of monitoring and ensure that penalties are actually enforced. It is also determined to
review the statutory provisions goveming the payment by banker's order of insurance contracts in the transport
branch (import/export), with a view to making the sector both more productive and more competitive. Under
the project, the Insurance Division of DNTCP will be strengthened so as to ensure better monitoring and
supervision of the, application of the CIMA Code, via a company-by-company action plan. The government is
committed to seeing that insurance companies apply CIMA's prudential guidelines.
With regard to social security, over the course of 2000 the CRM and the INPS will start to computerize
the basic data concerning the personal situation of active contributors and beneficiaries.
By the end of 2001, the government intends to formulate a general social security policy under the
project. Studies conducted with the participation of labor and management will define the various options for
restructuring the country's pension policy, in order to harmonize social security schemes and ensure ongoing
equilibrium and funding for the sector. In the meantime, action will be taken to contain the financial deficit of
CRM and to set up a more effective monitoring system to combat fraud and improve the processing of late
validations. As regards INPS, the next step will be to institute strict control of operating costs and conduct an
institutional and management audit, including actuarial studies. In addition, INPS will review its investment
policy in order to diversify its portfolio and make it more profitable.
The government intends implement a plan of action to develop decentralized financial systems (DFS),
particularly by making local financial services more accessible to the poorest segments of the population, by
enhancing the stability of microfinance institutions and of the services offered, by developing secure local
savings and credit, by consolidating the supplementary ties between the banks and the DFS, and by training the
staff and members of the DFS. In this context, the government will concentrate on strengthening the
institutional capacity of microfinance institutions and their Association (APIM), (Association Professionnelle
des Institutions de Microfinance), with a view above all to encouraging, on the one hand, more solid ties among
the DFS, and, on the other, agreements between the DFS, the State, and donors and lenders. The objective is to
enhance partnership with the banking system, disseminate improved information about the DFS, and train-their
staff and members. The State will also focus its efforts on strengthening the institutional capacities of the



68
decentralized financial systems support and monitoring unit (CAS/DFS) in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance so that the unit will be better equipped to exercise the State's responsibility for granting legal
recognition to the DFS, enforcing the regulatory framework, identifying and monitoring the DFS with a view to
creating a national registry, and organizing the State's disengagement from the role of technical operator of the
DFS.
As well as developing savings, expanding the capital market, and encouraging credit operations, the
government plans to conduct a study on tax incentives. The study will, inter alia, consider how to implement
reforms and to offset over time the shortfall resulting from abolition of the stamp tax on disbursements,
alignment of the tax on income from securities (Impot sur. les Revenues des Valeurs Mobilieres (IRVM) with
that applicable in the other member countries of WAEMU, abolition of double taxation of deposit accounts,
reduction of the tax on interbank operations, reduction of the tax on recovery operations, and provisions for
taxation of leasing operations.
To improve the legal and regulatory framework and thereby enhance judicial safeguards, the
government intends to review the commercial, civil procedure, and property codes with a view to bringing them
into line with OHADA (Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa) instruments.
Specifically, a review will be conducted of the laws governing ministerial authorization of sales resulting from
forced expropriation of real estate, deposit fees, and registration fees required following the auction and transfer
of property. In addition, accountability procedures and the law governing bankruptcies will be enforced, and
judicial proceedings will be accelerated. The government believes that these measures, together with intensive
training of bank managers and the individual efforts of the commercial banks, will contribute to debt recovery
and the rehabilitation of the financial sector.
Sincerely,
BACARI KONE
Minister
Knight of the Order of Mali



69
ANNEX 9
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. Project Implementation Plan
2. Procurement Plan
3. Project Information Document
4. Project Environmental Data Sheet
5. Country Assistance Strategy for Mali dated April 24, 1998
6. Mission Aide-Memoire of April 2000
7. Mission Aide-Memoire of March 1999
8. Mission Aide-Memoire of November 1998
9. Mission Aide-Memoire of March, 1997
10. Mission Aide-Memoire of November 1996
11. Rapport de synthese sur le systeme financier au Mali, avril 1998
12. Financial Statements of all Malian banks for FYE 1997, FYE 1998 and FYE1999
13. Etude sur la protection sociale au Mali, juin 1998
14. Place du marche des assurances au sein des institutions financieres du Mali, janvier 1998
15. Etude sur le secteur des assurances au Mali, avril 1998
16. Options for Pension Reform, the World Bank Pensions Group, September 1996
17. Strategie et perspectives de la microfinance au Mali, octobre 1997
18. Etude sur le systeme financier au Mali, APBEF, fevrier 1998
19. Bank Restructuring in Africa: Lessons Leamed from Selected Case Studies
20. Note on the Banking Sector in Mali, May 2000



70
ANNEX 10
SELECTED INDICATORS OF
BANK PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Indicator                                               1997          1998          1999          2000
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects Under Implementation a                  17            15            13            13
Average Implementation Period (years) b                  3.82          3.84          3.58          3.98
Percent of Problem Projects by Number a                 17.65            20          7.69         15.38
Percent of Problem Projects by Amount c                 12.57          8.87          7.06         18.05
Percent of Projects at Risk by Number at d              17.65         26.67          7.69         15.38
Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount ad                12.57         15.25          7.06         18.05
Disbursement Ratio (%) e                               21.78          17.04        22.64          11.25
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)
Supervision Resources (total US$ millions)
Average Supervision (US$ millions/project)
Memorandum Item                                 Since FY 80   Last Five
______________________________________         _________   _ _years
Proj. Eval. by OED by Number                              38              9
Proj Eval by OED by Amt (US$ millions)                776.91        296.41
% of OED Projects Rated U or HlU by Number              39.5          22.22
% of OED Projects Rated U or HUJ by Amt                22.86          11.11
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY).
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year: Investment projects only.



71
ANNEX 11
STATEMENT OF IFC'S LOANS AND CREDITS COMMITTED
AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
As of December 31, 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Held                          Disbursed
FY Approval Company                Loan    Equity      Quasi  Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1996          AEF GGG                  0.62          0       0      0   0.62        0      0      0
1994          AEF Hotel Bamako         0.45          0       0      0   0.45        0      0      0
1997/99       Randgold                    0       2.03       0      0      0    2.03       0      0
1997          SEF 3T                      0          0       0      0       0       0      0      0
1997          SEF Grand Hotel          1.54          0       0      0   1.54        0      0      0
1995          SEMOS                    17.5         4.8      0   12.5   17.5    4.8        0   12.5
1992/97       SOMISY                      8          0       0      12      8      0       0     12
Total Portfolio:            28.11        6.83       0   24.5  28.11    6.83      0   24.5
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity      Quasi  Partic
1996 AEF GGG                     0          0 386.81       0
1991 AEF-BOAM                    0     229.66       0      0
1995 AEF-NABEGU CO.          1,000          0       0      0
1999 AIF                         0    100,000       0      0
1999 AIM                         0        200       0      0
1997 BEN&Co               5,146.86          0       0      0
1999 Equipbail Mali              0      71.29       0      0
Total Pending Commitment:    6,146.86 100,500.95 386.81          0



ANNEX 12
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
Board Date Fiscal Year                            Last PSR                                                                 Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating b/               Original Amount in US$ Millions              Disbursements "
Active Projects                Development  Implementation        IBRD          IDA        Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig.    Frm Rev'd
Objectives       Progress
1992     P001745      NATURAL RES. MGMT                      S               S                    0         20.46           0        1.77        1.32       -1.64
1993     P001747      PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                   S               S                    0         11.09           0        5.23        5.87          0
1994     P001751      AG. RESEARCH                           S               S                    0         19.37           0        5.15        4.56        1.03
1994     P001730      TRANSPORT SECTOR                       S               S                    0         62.89           0        19.5       12.85       -1.44
1995     P001755      AGRO-PROCESSING TRD                    S               S                    0          5.35           0         2.2        2.01        2.04
1996     P001735      ECONOMIC MGMT                          S               S                    0         56.75           0        9.66       11.78       11.96
1996     P034617       SELINGUE REHAB.                       S               U                    0          25.4           0        8.39         7.7          0
1996     P001746      VOCATIONAL EDUC TRNG                   S               S                    0         12.36           0        7.51        4.63          0
1997     P001738       IRRIG PROMOTION                       S               S                    0          4.12           0        3.19        1.16          0
1997     P001750      URBAN DEVT & DECENTR                   S               S                    0         74.81           0       66.39       22.76          0
1998     P035617      GRASSROOTS HUN/POVT                    S               S                    0         21.73           0       17.07        1.93          0
1999     P040652      INTEG HEALTH SEC INV                   S                S                   0          39.1           0       38.22       13.98          0
2000     P058770       IMPROVING LEARNING IN                                                       0         3.82            0       3.82           0           0
PRIMARY SCHOOLS



73
ANNEX 14
Mali at a glance                                                                 9/20/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low- 
Mall     Attica   Income      Development dlamond'
Population. mid-year (rmillions)                        10.6       628     3515                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      250        480       520
GNP (Atlas nbethod, USS bi/lions)                        2.6       304      1,844
Average nnual growth, 1992.98
Population (9I)                                          2.8       2.6        1.7
Labor force (X6)                                         2S        2.6        19      GNP                              Gross
per                             pnimary
Most recent estimate (latast year avallable, 1992-98)                                 capita                        enriment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)    63
Urban populaton (f oftotalpopulaton)                     29         33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         S0         51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                118         91        69
Child malnutrition (9 of children under 5)               40                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (X ofpopulation)                    48         47        74
Illiteracy (9 of population age 15+)                     85         42        32
Gross primary enrollment (1of school-age population)     45         77       108       -Mal             Low-ncome group
Male                                                   55         84       113
Female                                                 35         69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATtOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998     _ _           _  __
Economic ratlos
GDP fUSS billIons)                             1.0       2.2       2.5        2.9
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                 15,6      20.7      20.6       20.9
Exports of goods and ser%Aces/GOP             12.8      16.6      25.5       23,6                     Trade
Gross domestic saings/GDP                      8.8       4.2      10.3       10.1
Gross national savings/GDP                               5.7      11.1       11.3
Current account balance/GDP                    -4.6     -9.4      -7.5       -7.3     D
Interest paymenta/GDP                          0.2       0.5       0,7        0.6     Domestic                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                                44.9      94.2     118.9 9    103 0     Savings
Total debt service/exports                     5.3      17.7      10.0       16.9
Present value of debtGDP                         .                71.3
Present value of debtleoports                                    247.0
Indebtedness
107747T  1988-98     1097       IM0   i099-03
(average annuialgrowfh)
GDP                                  -01       3.5       6.7       3.6        5.6 SMal                   Low-income group
GNP per cepita                       -2.3      0.5       3.4       1.3        2.5
Exports of goods and senriees         6,6      8.9     43.6        1.3       5.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      G,rowtn rates or output ana investment tI)
(f of GDP)
Agriculture                                   61.3      45.2      44.0       44 9     3T
Industry                                      11.0      15.9      20.0      20.7      15
Manufacturing                                 5.8      6.7        7.0       6.5      o
Services                                      27.8      38.9      36.0       34.4     15                 as   as 9s9
Private consumption                           80.6      841       75.3       77.1    .o
General govemment consumption                 10.6      11.6      14.4       12.8
Imports of goods and servIces                 19.6      33.1      35.8       34.4                .    GDI    -0.-GDP
(average annual growth)                    1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports l#)
Agriculture                                    0.9       3.3        2.9       1.6    tO..
Industry                                       3.2       7.0       21.6       7.4    40
Manufacturing                                 6.8      8.2       21.7       7.4
Seruices                                       0.6       2.0       3.9        3.8    20
Private consumption                            0.0       1.5      -0.1        6.4 
General govemment consumption                 10.6      10.4      17.9       -7.0                       9s      a 97 95
Gross domestc investment                       1.5       0.5      -10.6      13.3   -20
Imports of goods and services                  8.9       2.8       9.1        7.3             -Exports          e  Impon5t
Gross national product                         -0.1      3.4       6.5        4.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



74
Mali
PRtCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation(
D.omestik prices
(% change)                                                                             40
Consumer prices                                          -1.6       -0.7       4.1      30
Implicit GDP deflator                            8.1      0.4        1.1       4.8      20
Government finance                                                                     1l
{% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                       0                  -
Current revenue                                          16.5       17.1      17.2    -10       9    94 9s
Current budget balance                                    5.6        5.6       6.7               -_GDP deflator   0.*  CPI
Overall surplusidericit                                  -9.6       -6.4      -6.8
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USs mlli-ons)
Total exports (fob)                                       256        561       556     1.000
Cotton                                                  115        276       250
Gold                                                     51        201       226       750
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                       479        753       773       s00
Food                                                     64  111  123  250dM 1111
Fuel and energy                                          68        105         88
Capital goods                                           159        221       231
Export price index (1995=100)                              97         82        80
Import price index (1995=100)                              87         86        82                 uExorts       *lmpofts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 1il         95        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   148       320        641       637       o
Imports of goods and services                   207       639        901       930
Resource balance                                 -58     -319       -260      -292      -3
Net income                                        -9      -20        -51       -35
Netcurrenttransfers                              18  135   126  118  -e91111111
Current account balance                          -49     -204       -184      -209
Financing items (net)                            51       239        182       143                               i
Changes in net reserves                          -2       -34          3        67      12
AMemo:                    ,
Reserves including gold (USS millions)            7        25        417       257
Conversion rate (DEC, IocaIVUS)               245.7    267.0       597,7     557.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            472    2,049       2,945     2,941
IBRD                                            0         0          0         0                        G:83
IDA                                            67      340        939      1.009
Total debt service                                9        66         73       121
IBRD                                            0         0          0         0                  B                    1,009
IDA                                             1         4         14        16        E: 1,112
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                48       172       216                          .j
Official creditors                             52       123         75        67
Private creditors                               2        -7          0         0
Foreign direct investment                       3        -6         15                                              c 165
Portfolio equity                                0         0          0                                 D: 572
World Bank program
Commitments                                    36         0         21        22      A - IBRD                       E - Bilatera
Disbursements                                  13        44        75         48      B-IDA      D-Othermullilateral   F- PriNat
Principal repayments                            0         2          7         9      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                       13        42        67         39
Interest payments                               1         3          7         7
Net transfers                                  12        39        61         32
Development Economics                                                                                                       9/20/99



MAP SECTION






Y                                            0r                                           5-
gNISH;   r .>    ALGERIA              r               >  \                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shoIn'n on this map da nat imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
N-1                          ~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment on the legal status of any territory, ar any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
MAURITANIA   j                                                                                                            0           150           300 KILOMETERS
tNEGA\L \            /  \NIGER                                |                                        \
|-- t  .^6e.ake BUFRKINA\.  ,.                                               *
| _, ,,_.giGUINE<oA                       ;;I                                                 x                                    |   \    \ A    L   G    E    R   I   A
COTE DIVOIRE        >
10'                                                                                       -- 
M  A  LI                                                  T OMB MOU C T C U
20'                 0   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                        !                                           7             ,   0Ten,ai, k
CERCLE CAPITALS                                 |                                                                        Zoen6tene,                          /720-
REGION CAPITALS                                 j                                                            ',Aq.eIhI DAk
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      Ara...ne               \I R E G  1O  N                        '
FLOOD AREA                                       I                                                               -
-   RIVERS                            j            '\ ~~~~~~~~~~~            ~~        ~ ~~~~R E G  I O  N  qKid.I/_\\ "_ 
--'RIVERS                                                                                        (Kd1.
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                        '---
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                - 
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                              |
Bourl r ,  ^& A  O6            t 
hL                                                     * ~~~~~Gound~~~~~~~~ /  4             \       -~~~~~~% j '~~C-  R,' E) G  I O   N v,-t- 
M A U R I T A N I A                                                                                                  Menk
tz~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                            .iGgu    rt_f -Bonboaro-Moounder     "  Ansog cAnsasen r;!- *,r
S E N   E               I       a                             0  .. d            >  N b I EeR
$K,,      T MeS ;Ne-r       j *oiqe  /         \ *     I(        -  0* gar Toino                                                         NIGERURK            FASO 
)  ~~^_t->4Koui*-e0BoleyoYf;? -               \\+16    7-o`-olo        roL- o :-
SEEGL 'B005000o)"'LQUI 5B'                                                                          a o/~.-
G              ---'Do ... t..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---I---
3~~~~~~~~~~~~- 0 Dif ,                              jKUtKR9        ro          n                                                                          N I G E RIA
*   1"'Mekino  ~~~Y~Ji~~N  Non,ela    KnI aniM e,eIj  REGe4      k   /5Y 
O|              / AFgAMAP8BS29~KAY          'd"                            7                      rCEQ                                        EEN    tI
o ICeDJ,d                    Md ayo l       onm         lo . Se   Gei  HJ' Teeisie0
-b', $a .to. IN koo      ~    lad              es
o8a din  O' 9N        gee  \  and    '   sepr                  B UR K INA    FASO 
Nag 000ct    ---         0 FI
Soos~~~~~~~~~Y,n'
in 0 B.0-,~               or o                                                                                IEI
A-                     Bnn,enl,er   I   a I  s~~~~~~~~~~IKSS                                                                                           NI    ER   
CMT,L.AREA     0      e gni  K.e 0Ke0Nin-  Siko-
O                  G UI N                                                                                                              AM    f          EI
0,                                                                                                               0~~~~~~~~lao0  .dil  H N
CA                                                                                                                                                                 KS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GHANA '( 
-lo                                                                                                                                0'                                           5'



