Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3394-MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 18, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3394-MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated May 3, 
2000, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen financial sector development in its 
territory through a privatization and regulatory reform program (the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, 
collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings;
(a)
“ANB” means Antenne Nationale de la Bourse Régionale des 
Valeurs Mobilières;
(b)
“APBEF” means Association Professionnelle des Banques et 
Etablissements Financiers, the Professional Bankers’ Association in the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
“APIM” means Association Professionnelle des Institutions de 
Microfinance, a Professional Association of Microfinance Institutions, 
established pursuant to Récipissé de déclaration d'Association No. 
00518/MATS-DNI of October 14, 1999;
(d)
“BCEAO” means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de 
l'Ouest, the Regional Central Bank for West African States;
(e)
“BCS” means Banque Commerciale du Sahel, the Commercial Bank 
of the Sahel, established pursuant to Arrêté No. 3429/MEEP of October 6, 
1982;
(f)
“BDM” means Banque de Développement du Mali, the Development 
Bank of Mali, the Borrower’s development bank, established pursuant to 
Loi No. 68-24 AN/RM of March 22, 1968 as amended in 1989 to become 
BDM-SA;
Page  3
(g)
“BEP” means Banque des Entreprises Publiques, a financial 
institute dedicated to public enterprises, established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(h)
“BIM” means Banque Internationale pour le Mali, the Mali 
International Bank, established pursuant to Arrêté No. 3952/MFC of 
October 8, 1980 (renamed in 1995 as BIM);
(i)
“BMCD” means Banque Malienne de Crédit et de Dépôts, the 
Mali Bank for Credits and Deposits, one of the Borrower’s commercial 
banks, established pursuant to Letter No. 1065/GM-AD of June 8, 1979;
(j)
 “CAS-SFD” means Cellulle d'Appui et de Suivi des Systèmes 
Financiers Décentralisés, an operational unit in MEF (as hereinafter 
defined);
(k)
“CDC”
means Caisse de Dépôts et Consignations, Collateral 
Deposit Company, a public finance institution, established pursuant to 
Loi No. 63-77/AN-RM of December 27, 1963;
(l)
“CFAF" means "Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, 
the currency of the Borrower;
(m)
“CIMA” means Conférence Inter-africaine du Marché des 
Assurances, the Inter-African Conference for Trade and Insurance;
(n)
“CNAR” means Caisse Nouvelle d’Assurances et Réassurances, 
the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower and licensed under the CIMA code;
(o)
“COLINA” means COLINA SA, a private insurance company 
established pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, subsidiary of an 
Ivorian company of the same name;
(p)
“CRM” means Caisse de Retraite du Mali, a pension fund for 
civil servants of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the 
laws of the Borrower;
(q)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(r)
“Five Insurers” means all of the following five private 
insurance companies established in the territory of the Borrower, namely: 
(i) CNAR; (ii) Sabunyuman; (iii) LAFIA; (iv) COLINA; and (v) SONA-VIE (as 
hereinafter defined);
(s)
“Four Banks” means the four commercial banking institutions 
to be privatized under the Project, namely: (i) BDM; (ii) BIM; (iii) BCS; 
and (iv) BMCD (as hereinafter defined);
(t)
“GCSSF” means Groupement consultatif et stratégique pour le 
Secteur Financier,  the Project implementation unit in MEF (as 
hereinafter defined);
(u)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office 
of the United Nations Development Program;
(v)
“INPS”  means Institut National de Prévoyance Sociale, a 
social security fund for private sector employees in the territory of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(w)
“LAFIA” means Compagnie d’Assurances LAFIA SA, a private 
insurance company, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the 
Page  4
Borrower;
(x)
“MEF” means  Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance;
(y)
“MFI” means Micro Finance Institutions, entities providing 
credit and savings services to microenterprises and low-income population 
(as hereinafter defined) in the territory of the Borrower;
(z)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in 
paragraph ( 5 ) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(aa)
“NCGM” means National Consultative Group for Microfinance, 
comprising selected members of microfinance institutions, government 
ministries, commercial banks, the private sector, and the donor 
community, which has the mandate of monitoring and implementing the 
national microfinance strategy established and operating pursuant to the 
laws of the Borrower;
(bb)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(cc)
“Project Implementation Manual” means a manual of procedures 
adopted by the Borrower, transmitted by letter dated May, 2000, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, referred to in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing, inter alia, institutional 
arrangements, work-plans, monitoring and performance indicators and 
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the 
Association, and such term includes any schedules to said Manual;
(dd)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(ee)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on July 26, 1999 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on August 12, 1999; 
(ff)
“Sabunyuman” means Compagnie d’Assurances SABUNYUMAN, a 
private insurance company, established and operating pursuant to the laws 
of the Borrower;
(gg)
“SGI” means  Société de Gestion et d’Intermédiation, a 
financial intermediation company, established and operating pursuant to 
the laws of the Borrower;
(hh)
“SONA-VIE” means Société Nouvelle d'Assurance Vie, a private 
insurance company, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the 
Borrower; and
(ii)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
Page  5
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2006 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 
2010 and ending February 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on February 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
Page  6
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate privatization, 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the works, goods and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan of its future 
strategy for the development of the financial sector; and
Page  7
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of  Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an 
amount equivalent to $100,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to 
the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, by March 30, June 15, 
September 15 and December 15 in each year during Project implementation, 
such amounts as shall be required to timely replenish the Project Account 
back to the amount of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) 
above; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project other than those 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, including 
the records and accounts for the Special 
Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and 
accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
Page  8
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  9
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has:
(a)
opened the Project Account and deposited therein the initial 
deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
established, or has caused to be established: (i) a 
computerized accounting and financial management system; and (ii) a 
computerized procurement system, in GCSSF, satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for finance  is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
BP 234
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Facsimile:
(223) 
22.88.53.
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  10
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   100,000
90% 
(2)
Goods and equipment
   800,000
90% 
(3)
Consultants’
 8,400,000
100%
services
(4)
Training
 1,900,000
100%
(5)
Operating
 2,800,000
90%
costs
(6)
Refunding of
   400,000
Amount due
Project Preparation
pursuant to Section
Page  11
Advance
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
 1,400,000
TOTAL
15,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "operating costs" means 
the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, 
audits, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
administrative support, communication and utility services, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
works and goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each, and for expenditures for services under contracts with firms 
costing less than $100,000 or with individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFAF  in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, a 
special deposit account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Eligible Categories” 
means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule 1.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Page  12
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B. 2 of 
this Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
450,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  13
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000 (two 
million Special Drawing Rights).
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposit into said Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or 
at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B. 
3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
Page  14
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
two million Dollars ($2,000,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in carrying 
out reforms improving the economic efficiency of its financial sector,  
through : (a) the divestiture of public ownership in selected financial 
institutions and restructuring of selected financial institutions with 
remaining public participation,  (b) the strengthening of non-bank 
financial institutions, including, social security funds, retirement 
funds, insurance companies and micro-finance institutions, and (c) the 
improvement of the regulatory framework affecting the financial sector 
and MEF’s capacity to implement its financial sector policy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening the Financial Sector
1.
Privatization and Restructuring  of Commercial Banks
Carrying out of studies to: (a) evaluate the networth of the Four 
Banks; (b) prepare strategies for the divestiture of public ownership in 
the Four Banks; (c) manage the divestiture process; (d) bring said Four 
Banks to the point of sale; and (e) strengthen BEP’s institutional 
capacity; through the provision of training of selected staff at BEP and 
the acquisition of equipment.
2.
Strengthening of Commercial Banks
Carrying out studies to increase the profitability of selected 
commercial banks and selected publicly owned institutions, including: (a) 
the preparation of strategic business development plans, if required; and  
(b) proposals to speed up the recovery of non-performing loans; through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training of selected 
staff in said institutions.
3.
Strengthening of APBEF
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of APBEF to provide training in 
banking expertise to the banking community in the territory of the 
Borrower through the provision of technical advisory services; and
(b)
rehabilitation of a training center, through the acquisition 
of goods and the carrying out of works.
4.
Supporting the Development of the Local Capital Markets
(a)
Strengthening the management capacity and technical skills 
of selected staff in ANB and SGI, through the provision of technical 
advisory services; and
(b)
carrying out education, information and communication 
campaigns in the territory of the Borrower explaining the purpose and 
functions of the stock market through the provision of technical advisory 
services, seminars and training, and the provision of equipment and 
information materials.
Page  15
Part B:
Strengthening of the Non-bank Financial Sector
1.
Strengthening of Social Security (INPS), Retirement Funds (CRM) and 
CDC
(a)
Carrying out financial and institutional audits of INPS, CRM 
and CDC indicating immediate measures for management improvements through 
the provision of technical advisory services;
(b)
strengthening the capacity of selected staff in INPS, CRM 
and CDC in selected areas, including: (i) accounting; (ii) cost 
calculations; and (iii) marketing of financial services; through the 
provision of training; and
(c)
carrying out of actuarial studies for INPS and CRM and 
implementing the recommendations of said audits and studies referred to 
in this paragraph 1 of Part B of the Project.
2.
Strengthening the Insurance Sector
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of selected staff of MEF to 
supervise the implementation of CIMA recommendations and initiate the  
promotion of  new insurance products in the territory of the Borrower, 
through the provision of technical advisory services, training to 
selected staff of MEF and the acquisition of goods;
(b)
carrying out financial and institutional audits of the Five 
Insurers with a view to determining viability of said institutions and 
recommendations to strengthen their profitability; and
(c)
provision of training in accounting, cost calculation, 
preparation of strategic business plans and marketing of insurance 
services to selected staff of those insurance companies determined to be 
viable.
Part C: 
Strengthening the Micro Finance Sector
1.
Strengthening the supervisory capacity of selected staff of CAS-SFD 
to register, advise and monitor MFIs, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training.
2.
Provision of training to selected staff of APIM in information 
sharing and best practice dissemination.
3.
Provision of training to selected staff of NCGM in coordination of 
micro finance activities and policy promotion, implementation and 
supervision.
4.
Strengthening the professional capacity of selected staff in the 
micro-finance sector in the areas of, inter alia: (a) accounting and 
bookkeeping; (b) financial management; (c) business planning; (d) 
compliance with laws and guidelines regulating the sector; and (e) other 
activities intended to improve MFIs’ performances, through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training to selected staff in selected 
MFIs.
Part D:
Legal Sector
1.
Strengthening the judicial enforceability of claims in the 
financing sector through, inter alia: (a) provision of legal training to 
(i) selected staff in financial institutions in credit approval, credit 
security, accounting, and preparation of claims, and (ii) selected 
lawyers, judges and court clerks in accounting, banking and secured 
transactions; and (b) strengthening of in-house legal services in all 
financial institutions.
2.
Carrying out studies pertaining to, inter alia: (a) credit 
Page  16
enforcement, covering: (i) options to reduce costs in the establishment 
and/or enforcement of guarantees or other credit collateral; (ii) 
facilitated access to credit through the extension of existing forms of 
collateral or introduction of new forms of collateral to secure said 
loans; (iii) review of the code of civil procedure; and (iv) judiciary 
guidelines for verdict notification and appeals; (b) reorganization of 
the association of court appointed experts; and (c) efficiency and 
reliability of the commercial registry, land title registry and mining 
registry.
3.
Implementation of the recommendations of studies referred to under 
Part D. 2 of this Schedule, notably: (a) the reformed association of 
court appointed experts; and (b) reliable registries for land titling, 
mining and commerce, through the provision of training of selected staff 
in selected banking institutions and selected tribunals and the 
acquisition of equipment.
4.
Strengthening the efficiency of the Supreme Courts’ Section de 
Comptes through the provision of advisory services to, and training of, 
selected members of said Section de Comptes and the acquisition of 
equipment.
5.
Strengthening the understanding of the regulations and procedures 
pertaining to credit enforcement through the carrying out of information, 
education and communication campaigns among members of the banking, legal 
and commercial communities in the territory of the Borrower.
Part E:
Strengthening of MEF and Project  Management
1.
Strengthening the technical policy, and implementation capacity of 
MEF to initiate and supervise the financial sector reforms and design and 
implement training courses for the staff in commercial banks, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training and the acquisition of 
equipment.
2.
Administration, coordination, supervision and evaluation of Project 
implementation through the carrying out of training programs for selected 
staff in GCSSF and MEF, the acquisition of equipment and provision of 
technical advisory services.
3.
Following up on recommendations of the supervisory authorities, 
including those issued by the Commission Bancaire, the regional body 
monitoring economic and financial policies of the member states of the 
West African Economic and monetary Union, and CIMA.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Page  17
Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and  
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B, namely that to the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall 
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement through International Agencies
Vehicles, computers and office equipment may be procured from IAPSO 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods  shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and with respect to the first three contracts for 
goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  18
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $725,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits, and services estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  19
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
General
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or waive any provision thereof if, 
in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
B.
Coordination, Management and Supervision
2.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it, through GCSSF, to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual and summarized in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project:
(a)
maintain within GCSSF the following staff with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) the 
Project coordinator; (ii) a procurement specialist;(iii)  a specialist in 
charge of financial management and accounting; and (iv) qualified Project 
support staff in adequate numbers. The Project coordinator shall be 
responsible for furnishing to the Association, for review and comment, 
the Project progress reports.
4.
The Borrower shall appoint, within three months following the 
Effective Date, within GCSSF, a Project component manager for each of the 
following Project components : (a) banking; (b) non-bank financial 
sector; (c) microfinance sector; and (d) legal sector, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and 
maintain Project component managers in place until the completion of the 
Project  with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
C.
Reports, Annual and Midterm Review
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
until the completion of the Project, prepare, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Page  20
Association, semiannually, commencing March 31, 2001, or such other date 
as the Association shall agree, until the time the Association shall 
receive the three Project Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 
(b) of this Agreement, for its review and comments, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to  paragraph 2 of this Schedule 4, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(b)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the 
submission of the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, said report and thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the  Association’s views on the matter;
(c)
(i) by June 30 of each year until the Completion Date, 
commencing June 30, 2001 or such later date as the Association shall 
agree upon, carry out jointly with the Association, a review (Annual 
Review), the second such review constituting the mid-term review (Midterm 
Review), (ii) take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the 
participation of representatives of  the finance sector in said Reviews, 
which shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project;
(d)
no later than one month prior to the  Reviews referred to in 
subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, furnish to the Association, for its 
review and comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project; and
(e)
following such Reviews, act promptly and diligently in order 
to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
D.
Specific Actions
6.
The Borrower shall not cause studies to be carried out pursuant to 
Part A. 2 of the Project, unless the respective bank has requested such 
study and GCSSF and the Association have approved said request.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
no later than six months following the Effective Date, have 
initiated the financial audits for INPS and CRM pursuant to Part B. 1 (a) 
of the Project;
(b)
no later than 24 months following the Effective Date, 
complete the actuarial studies for INPS and CRM pursuant to Part B.1 (c) 
of the Project; and
(c)
within 28 to 35 months following the Effective Date, in time 
for the Midterm Review, complete a technical and financial audit of the 
Project and an assessment of staff perception in the entities having 
received training and/or technical assistance services under the Project, 
as the case may be.
8.
The Borrower shall have taken all means necessary to reduce the 
percentage of public share holding to less than 20% of the total 
shareholdings by capital and voting rights as follows: 
(a)
by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree,  in BIM and BMCD; and
Page  21
(b)
by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, in BCS.
9.
By December 31, 2004, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, the Borrower shall have taken all measures necessary to: (i) 
reduce the percentage of public shareholdings in all commercial banking 
institutions (including BDM but excluding BNDA and BHM) to zero in terms 
of total shareholding by capital or voting rights; (ii) help implement 
CIMA’s recommendations concerning insurance companies operating on its 
territory; and (iii) implement the recommendations of the financial audit 
pertaining to INPS pursuant to Part B 1(a) of the Project and caused INPS 
to comply, in due course, with CIPRES regulations.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators
1.
Financial institutions comply with key prudential ratios (capital 
adequacy, risk concentration and liquidity) and substantially reduce the 
level of non-performing loans from the present level (industry-average) 
of 23 percent by the second year following the Effectiveness Date, 15 
percent the third year following the Effectiveness Date and 10 percent by 
the end of the Completion Date.
2.
Financial intermediation has been broadened by the completion Date 
through the introduction and development of new instruments such as 
secured cash deposits, leasing, and venture capital financing.
3.
Treasury deposits will be placed with banks on a competitive basis.
4.
BIM and BMCD have been restructured and brought to the point of 
sale by December 31, 2001, BCS by June 30, 2002 and BDM by December 31, 
2004.
5.
Key recommendations of the viability study for BHM are being 
implemented.
6.
Within two years of the Effectiveness Date: (i) actuarial studies 
for CRM and INPS have been completed and action plans are implemented; 
and (ii) by December 31, 2003, INPS and insurance companies comply with 
regional prudential requirements.
7.
By December 31, 2004, the Borrower has helped implement the 
recommendations of CIMA on insurance companies that previously have not 
met regional solvency requirements.
8.
At least 40 percent of MFIs are registered in the CAS-SFD’s data 
bank by December 31, 2002 and at least 80 percent by Completion Date.
9.
By Mid-term review, a minimum of 100 MFI staff have received 
training and a minimum of 250 MFI staff by Completion Date.
10.
Within 24 months of the Effectiveness Date, 50 percent of credit 
staff in the major banking institutions have received training and 100 
percent of said staff by Completion Date.
