'c vf J"r     o- <t
D_ewnait of
The World Bank
FlR OmcFLAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-5901-GU
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMEDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRNAZTIONl DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.65 MIION
TO THE
REPUIBLIC OF GUYANA
FOR A
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1993
1'eeport l . F- -:9( 1 (.;NIA A Tyvpe: !'M i
r]'i. .z Xe:  7PtrLLT A. I ;NI NFTTeOTPATJ ('N FF<TJECT-
Av.1-.hrir: MhNANh TIFL CANPK'. A
Ex.:3:q'   F- rfr:J:34343 mJe>t. :.LAF:->
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRCYENAE9MWZM
Currency Unit - Dolar (G$)
Official Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 1992
GS$1 = US$0.01
US$1 = 125G$
GLOSSAR DE ARMARKUM S AND ACRQN3
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICB       Intenational Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       Intemational Finance Corporation
iMF       Inteational Monetary Fund
LIB       Limited Intemational Bidding
ODA       Ovea Developnment Adminison
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PSM        Public Service Management
TAC       Technical Assistance Credit
FISCAL XAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
PUBLIC ADMINSTRATIOIN PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
The Republic of Guyana
Beneficiaies:        Ministries, Departments, Regional Administrations, and
other entities comprised in the Public Service
Amount:               SDR 8.65 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year
grace period
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
-J(US$ million)-
Government      10.0                  10.0
IDA              X          8X2       12.0
13.8       8.2       22.0
Economic Rate of Return:   N. A.
Staff Appraisal Report No.:  11258-GUA
MAe:                       IBRD 24750
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
FOR A PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Guyana for SDR 8.65 million, the equivalent of US$12.0
million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years, including 10 years of grace, to help
finance a Public Administration Project.
2.        Background. Guyana is endowed with abundant natural resources and a relatively
well educated human resource base for its income level. The country nevertheless suffered a
severe deterioration in economic activity during the 1980s as a consequence of economic policies
that led to the domination of the public sector in the economy anid severely distorted the
incentive regime.  Government controls stifled private sector economic activity, while
deteriorating public sector finances made it impossible to maintain essential infrastructure and
social services. By the mid-1980s, electrical power, water and sewerage services deteriorated,
road and river transport became increasingly difficult, the sea defenses suffered numerous
breaches, and health and education services severely declined in coverage and quality. Falls in
real compensation and deteriorating living conditions exacerbated the exodus of trained
professionals and skldled workers. In response to this crisis, the Government embarked in 1988
on an Economic Recovery Program (ERP). Under the ERP, Guyana has undertaken far-
reaching adjustnent measures and structural reforms, implying a fundamental shift in economic
policies towards a market-oriented economy. The ERP is being supported by an IMF
standby/ESAF arrangement and IDA Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance (TAC)
Credits, all of which were approved in June 1990. Few countries have moved as far and as fast
as Guyana in readjusting their policies from heavy public intervention in all sectors of the
economy to reliance on market forces.
3.        The economy responded to the reform measures and growth resumed in 1991 at a
rate of about 6 percent. However, two major public sector weaknesses continue to hamper
economic recovery. First, the public sector has been largely drained of skldled managers, is
unable to supply basic services or provide the necessary support for human resources and
infrastructure development. Public sector compensation fell dramatically in real terms during
1988-90, and recent salary increases have not been sufficient to stem the emigration of skilled
personnel. At present salary levels, the Government cannot attract or retain the managers and
techniciams necessary to ensure sound management of the economy or the operation of basic
services, much less plan and execute the investment program necessary to rehabilitate facilities.
As a partial response, the Government has employed a variety of mechanisms to ameliorate
staffing problems in the public service by providing special salaries and allowances outside of
the formal grading system. Second, key public sector functions lack adequate management
systems and therefore basic mechanisms to ensure accountability and efficient use of public
resources. in particular, the accounting system broke down in 1981 and since then no financial
statements of the public sector have been produced. Similarly, accurate information on public
employment and salaries is neither easily available nor regularly updated because management



- 2 -
of the public service lacks an effective personnel records system. In 1991 the Government, with
ODA assistance, initiated a program of public service reform, focussing on the restructuring of
the Ministries and strengthening of the previous Public Service Ministry. The Government
reduced the number of Ministries from 18 to 11, and also eliminated a number of non-critical
vacancies. These gains need to be augmented by rationalization of public service activities and
reduction in the size of the public se.vice. Furthermore, the systems and procedures employed
by the Ministries remain to be improved, and the lack of skldled staff in key positions requires
urgent attention. The Government has requested IDA assistance in dealing with these issues.
4.        EwLject .bQckiyils. Building upon the Government's recent efforts, the main
objective of the project would be to provide urgently needed assistance to improve the capacity
of the public sector to perform its core functions. The thrust of the project is twofold: (a) to
facilitate adequate staffing of key public service positions, and to eliminate staffing redundancies;
and (b) to create conditions for accountability in financial and personnel management, as well
as in fundamental operational programs. The project would also support the first phase of the
Government's longer term strategy for public sector reform, and would assist in preparing the
next phase of the program. The broad principles underlying the strategy and process by which
they would be translated into concrete measures are set out in a Public Sector Development
Policy Letter of the Government.
5.        Eroject  ription. The main parts of the proposed project are:
(a) Reforming the Public Service Salary and Employment Structure (45.4% of
piweLt-cost. The proposed reforms would introduce structural changes in public service
employment practices and salary scale that would enable public servants at all levels to be
adequately and transparently compensated within the formal grading system. Given limited
financial resources, the program concentrates on the rationalization of public service employment
composition and the staffing of key positions, particularly in posts requiring valuable managerial
or technical Skills. The modifications in the public service salary and employment structure
therefore are focused on the further elimination of redundant positions and vacancies and on
achieving substantial salary increases in the highest salary grades, with adjustments also at lower
levels. Such reforms entail decompression of the salary scale; the shifting of certain positions,
particularly technical ones, into higher salary grades; and the incorporation of all the special
contracts, allowances, and other salary enhancements into the formal grading system. The
proposed new salary structure takes into account the existing gap between public service salaries
and opportunities in the private sector. The desired reforms can be implemented at an annual
cost (net increase in total salaries paid to the public service) of US$2.5 million. This part of the
project will be subject to an annual internal audit in addition to usual monitoring procedures.
The Government will finance the incremental cost of the new salary structure out o0 -ts own
resources and through counterpart funds generated from balance of payment supputt made
available by donors. The UK/ODA has confirmed its intention to provide balance of payment
support in the order of US$5 million to support the public administration reform efforts. This



- 3 -
financing would be expected to be approved by mid-1993. (IDA would not participate in the
financing of salaries.)
(b) Public Sector Management Strengthening (43.2% of project cost!. Four
components are included: (i) the Integrated Financial Management component comprises the
design and implementation of the norms, procedures and systems required for effective and
efficient budgeting, accounting, cash management, debt manage,ment, internal control and
extemal control.  The core of the new system would be an integrated, institutionally
decentralized budgeting and accounting system, coordinated by the Ministry of Finance. This
component would also include revenue collection management systems including customs; (ii)
the Regional Administratwons System component would be implemented in two stages. The first
stage would prepare the basic design and related implementation program for a new institutional
system, focused on the role of key Ministries in the Regions. The second stage would support
the establishment of the new system as well as the required institutional reforinis (e.g., a clear
demarcation of responsibilities between the Ministries and the Regional Administrations); (iii)
the Personnel Management component would also comprise two stages. The first one, to be
funded by the TAC and the proposed project, would finance design and establishment of a basic
personnel records system. The second stage would support the consolidation of a modern
personnel management system including employment and salary administration, a comprehensive
civil service policy and a transparent performance evaluation and incentives system; and (iv) the
General Administration component would finance administrative, computer, communications and
transportation equipment which are essential for managing operations in selected programs of
Ministries and the Regional Administrations.
(c) Recruitment Program (8.2 % of project cost). This part of the project comprises
administration of an incentive package to be awarded to qualified expatriate Guyanese
professionals, who have resided outside the country for two or more consecutive years, and
possibly other natiomals, to staff a limited number of the key senior level positions which could
not be filled locally. About 150 critical senior level positions have been identified jointly by the
Government and IDA; of these, more than half remain unfilled because of lack of qualified
Guyanese available within Guyana. The project proposes to finance the recruitment of
individuals to fill about 50 of these positions. The total number of positions to be staffed under
this program is constrained by available financing under the project. Items to be included in the
package are: (i) a one-way ticket for the beneficiary and his/her immediate family (spouse and
children); (ii) a lump-sum relocation allowance; (iii) shipment costs; and (iv) a lump-sum grant
at the end of a minimum tenure (3 years) of continuous service. The lump-sum would be paid
during 1996 and 1997, and the recruitment stage should be completed not later than September
30, 1994. As the number of positions that can be staffed under this component is substantially
smaller than the total number of positions that could be considered for staffing under this
program, special attention would be given to the strict application of the selection criteria
whereby "key" posts will be given priority. A list in order of priority of unfilled posts within
the critical category list agreed jointly between the Government and IDA will be submitted by
the head of each of the Ministres and selected Constitutional and Semi-Autonomous Agencies.



-4 -
Selection from among these budgeted posts will be done by the project team in consultation with
PSM, the Ministry of Finance, and the subject ministry or entity concemed. Appointnents
qualifying for the incentive package will be approved by the National Director of the project and
cleared by IDA. Administration of this program cnmprises evaluation and selection of potential
beneficiaries, advertising, and management and monitoring, including an annual internal audit
of the program. Design of this program reflects particular emphasis on transparency, objectivity
of decision-maling and accountability.
6.        PrEject Implementation (3.2% of project cos. There would be a Public Sector
Reform Coordinating Unit which would have the responsibility for supporting execution and
monitoring progress under the project. The Unit would also have the responsibility for
preparing the studies needed to formulate a longer term program for public sector reform. The
Unit would be headed by a National Director, who has already been appointed, and would be
staffed with a Coordinator and two senior professionals who will share the responsibilities of the
Unit. The Unit also would have a budget to finance short-term consultancies to carry out the
above mentioned studies.
7.        Piect Sustainabilit. The proposed project would substantially improve the overall
quality of public sector management and help in the modernization of key public sector systems.
The proposed assistance and institutional refonns in the areas of financial and personnel
management, and the Regional Administrations, also would result in increased revenue
collections and effective means for improving accountability, and therefore, greater public sector
efficiency and sustainability of project outcomes.
8.        The Government is expected to be able to sustain the financing of the upgraded
salary structure at the end of the project period. The total cost of public service salaries
represents less than 25% of current public expenditures (net of debt service payments) for 1992,
and the increased cost of upgrading the public service salary structure would represent only 5%
of the 1992 current expenditures. In addition, during the four years of project implementation,
the cancellation of new vacancies in the lower five levels of the salary scale should result in a
reduction of at least 20% of those positions, with implied fiscal savings of at least US$1.2
million (equivalent to 40% of the increased cost of upgrading the slary structure) in the final
(fourth) year. Finally, the increased revenues and rationaization of expenditures expected to
result from improved quality of the public service and public sector management strengthening
should more than cover the remaining costs of sustawng the upgraded salary structure.
9.        Rationale for the BaDk Group's Involvement. The proposed project comprises a first
stage in IDA support of a comprehensive public sector reform that is expected to be followed
by future interventions. It would deepen the Government's initial efforts (financed by ODA) to
reorganize the public sector and improve civil service procedures. IDA assistance would provide
a much needed catalytic role and an effective framework for donor coordination. The project
would draw upon the experience gained under the TAC. The project would directly support all
IDA-financed operations in Guyana (as well as projects by donors and other international



- 5 -
financial institutions) because project preparation activities and implementation are currently
hampered by the dearth of managerial capacity in most areas of the public service.
10. Lessons from Bank Experience. Experience shows that the dual salary structures that are
created with most forms of salary supplements produce wage distortions and breed resentment
and disruption within the public service. These arrangements are also sources of lack of
transparency and openness in public service administration. More importantly, such financing
does not solve the problem of motivating public servants, which can only be tackled through in-
depth reform. However, because extensive public service reform cannot be achieved rapidly,
it is often recognized as impractical to rule out all sorts of special treatments in all cases. Based
on this experience and on the parcular conditions in Guyana's public service, the project
proposes to, first, reform the public service employment practices and salary scale. These
structural changes would enable public servants at all levels to be adequately and transparently
compensated within the formal grading system. Conditions would also be created for
accountability in financial and personnel management, as well as in fundamental operational
programs. Secondly, as a complement to these longer term reforms, the project would finance
a recruitment program to fill about 50 senior level positions whose skills are critical to the
functioning of the public service, and which have remained unfilled due to lack of qualified
Guyanese available in Guyana. Because recruitment programs in the past have often benefitted
individuals rather than the institutions concerned-mainly due to a lack of transparency and
objectivity in recrutment-the proposed recruitment program will focus exclusively on the
recuiAtment of individuals whose skills match the needs identified by the program. In addition,
while staff recruited under this program would receive relocation and lump-sum benefits (the
latter after a minimum period of servce), their salary scales and conditions of service would be
the same as established under the project for senior Guyanese civil servants recruited locally.
11.  Agrd Actions. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a) implement, not later than one month after project effectiveness, in terms satisfactory to IDA,
the new public service salary structure, and basic reforms to personel management, including:
(i) decompression of the salary scale; (ii) shifting and filling of key and critical positions; (ii)
incorporation, within the salary scale, of all positions presently filed through special contracts,
allowances, and other salary enhancements and therefore, the cancellation of aU employment
practices outside the formal public service regime; and (iv) measures for eliminating labor
redundancy in the lower levels of the salary scale; (b) execute the Public Sector Management
Strengthening components and the Recruitment Program in accordance with the agreed action
plans and annual work programs; (c) maintain, until completion of the project, a PCU with
functions and responsibilities satisfctory to IDA, including, inter alia, the coordination of the
execution of all parts of the project by monitoring progress of each activity of, and providing
support to, the Executing Agencies; (d) ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by the
National Project Director, assisted by a full-time Deputy Director and a Procurement Advisor,
all with qualifications, experience and functions satisfactory to IDA. and by qualified staff in



-6 -
adequate numbers; it also will maintain in the Executing Agencies qualified staff in adequate
numbers as counterparts of the consultants employed; (e) carry out the procurement of goods and
consultant services required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
in accordance with agreed provisions; (f) prepare, through the PCU, and furnish to IDA for its
approval the annual work programs by not later than September 1 of each year, starting in 1994;
(g) prepare, through the PCU, semi-annual progress reports and, jointly with IDA, carry out
annual reviews of implementation of the agreed action plans and annual work programs; (h)
carry out with IDA, not later than July 1995, a mid-term review to assess overall progress in
project implementation. For this purpose, it will furnish to IDA, for its approval, by not later
than May 31, 1995, the terms of reference for this review; (i) prepare, through the MOF, with
the support of PSM/OP and the PCU, and furnish to IDA not later/ than March 30 of each year,
the annual internal audits of the application of the agreed salary structure and implementation
of the Recruitment Program; () have prepared at the time of the mid-term evaluation of the
project, a time bound program for public sector reform based upon the studies prepared under
this project. This program would be agreeable to IDA and, on the basis of it, IDA could
continue assisting the Government's efforts towards the modermization of the public sector. In
addition, at negotiations, the Government presented to IDA a signed Public Sector Development
Policy Letter. The Policy Letter sets out the broad outlines of the Government's long-term
strategy for public sector reform and the specific commitments the Government is undertaking
to carry out the first phase of this strategy.
12. In addition, before effectiveness, the following conditions should be met: (a) the basic
personnel records-keeping system, satisfactory to IDA, will be established; (b) the PCU will be
established and staffed in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (c) formal arrangements, satisfactory
to IDA, will be established for the coordination among the PCU and the Executing Agencies;
(d) counterpart funds, adequate for project execution, would have been allocated in the
Borrower's 1993 budget; and (e) annual work programs for the Public Sector hManagement
Strengmiening components and the Recruitment Program for the first twelve months of project
implementation will have been finalized and agreed with IDA (draft programs have been agreed).
13.       Project Benefits. An efficient public administration is crucial to the success of the
ERP. The project would provide urgently needed assistance to improve provision of basic public
services, by establishing a longer term salary structure that would enable the Government to
attract and retain essential staff, and by carrying out a related recruitment program. The project
also would assist the Government in strengthening economic policy-making and key public sector
management systems. The project is therefore expected to substantially improve the capacity
of the public sector to perform its core functions and to create a suitable environment for
economic development.
14.       Rish. The project faces two risks: First, the payment of higher salaries may
engender resentment among public employees not particularly favored by the new salary
structure. This risk would be managed by implementing a well designed salary structure that
associates higher salaries with higher specialized skills and/or management responsibility, using



-7-
clear job descrptions, objective cntena and transparent decision-malkng procedures. An
information campaign also is to be carried out to ensure the acceptability of the program.
Seond, there is a risk that the program could increase the politicization of the public service.
Since significant higher salaries would be paid only for those positions requiring specific
technical qualifications and responsibilities, it is expected that many incumbents will fail to
qualify. Implementation of the program would thus imply potential political pressures. This
risk is increased by the ethnic polarization of Guyanese society. To minimize this risk,
disbursement of the IDA funds under this project will be conditioned to neutrl application of
a sound salary structure monitored through project supervisions and the agreed annual intrnal
audits.
15.       Recommendatim. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
March 9, 1993



ScheduleA
Page 1 of 1
Guyana: Publtc Ad-initaton Project
Summary of      c osts
Law  P      oreiLn                % of BWs
-(USS mfllions)-
I.    Upgrading of the Salary Structre"    10.0                      10.0        45.4
It.   Public Sector Mangement Strengthening
A. Integrated Financial Maagement     0.8         3.2          4.0         18.2
B. Regional AdministrationsSystem      .3         0.7          1.0          4.5
C. Personnel Mement                   0.1         0.4          0.5          2.3
D. General Adminsuaon                 1.0         3.0          4.0         18.2
III.   Recritment Program                   1.3         0.5          1.8          8.2
IV.   Coordinatng Unit                      0.3         0.4          0.7          3.2
Project Total                      13.8         8.2          22.0       100.0
of which PPF                      0.2          0.7          0.9
1/ An average of US$2.5 milion per anmum over a 4 year period.
Table 5.2: luancdng Plan
Tod    MA    CMov    % TDA    % Gov.
---(S$ mllions   s-
Goods                           6.1    6.1              100
Consultants                     4.2    4.2              100
Travel, Shipping, Reloc. Grants  1.7    1.7              100
Upgrading of the Salary Structure  10.0      10.0                 100
Project Total                  22.0   12.0  10.0         55       45
I. Upgrading of the Salary Structure 10.0   10.0                 100
lT. Public Sector Management
Strengthening             9.5    9.5              100
111. Recruitment Program        1.8    1.8               100
IV. Coordinating Unit           0.7    0.7               100
Project Total             22.0   12.0   10.0        55       45



Sciedule-B
Page 1 of 1
Guyana: Public Adminstration Project
Procurement Argements
(US$'OOO)
Project Etment                   ICB Al   Othe            N/A          Total Costs
1.  Consultant Seces and
Tainng                                4,200h/                             4,200
(4,200)                           (4,200)
2.  Goods                        3,600     2,500S/                            6,100
(3,600)   (2,500)                           (6,100)
3.  Racrutmen (trave and shipping
expense and tavel allowances)                          1,700              1,700
(1,700)           (1,700)
4.  ncement Costs of the Salay
Stucue                                                10,000             10,000
Total                        3,600     6,700           11,700            22,000
(3,600)   (6,700)        (1,700)           (12,000)
Now Pkue in pmdmn  we do m_m fim*W by IA.
gi hud=4 cmped" bddag (ICB) if a*inmud =abvft Veha is *e &equviwnLfUSS30.000or awe.
h' Jnc1ed o fg of aoeumhfit h,dsmwevftWmM Uok toapGuMebin.
# LU SwUS$2Oihlam 0 elt umoho. k_1_  bUSSO.Sunliam
IMA Disbursements
Category                   Amount                   Percentage
1.  Consultant Services and Traning        4,200           100% net of taxes
2.  Goods                                  6,100           100% foreign expeaditurs and 8S%
ex-fictoy local aependittues.
3.  Recritment Costs                       1,700           100%
Total                                  12,000
Estimated IDA D    iburm
(US$'OOO)
FY93       FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97-98
Annual               900        3,100      3,500     2,000       2,500
Cumnmdative          900        4,000      7,500     9,500      12,000



Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
Guyana: Publi Adstration Project
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time Taken to Prepare:         Ten months
Prepare by:                    Govemment of Guyana/IDA
First Preparation Mission:     May 1992
Appraisal Mission:             June/July 1992
Negotiations:                  Febnrary 1993
Planned Date for Board
Presentation:                March 1993



Schedule D2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
.........................................
A. Statentn of lank Loens and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1M
.................................................................
--.--.US$ Million.......
Asmount
LoanJCr.    fiecal                                                              (Less Cancel lation)
luiber       Year    Borrower               Purpose                            Sank    IDA   Undisbursed
........         ...    .....               ......                              ....   ....  ...........
12 loans nd 12 credits have been fully disbursed:                              76.2     61.0
of lhich SECALS, "ALS ond Proram Loans  a/
1098-OA        81    Guyana        Structural Adjustment                                 8.0
1948-SM        SI   Guyana         Structural AdJustment                       14.0
2168-1-SA      90    Cuyana        Second Structural AdJustment                          3.4
216U-2-6A      91    Guyan         Second StructuraL Adjustment                          4.3
2168-3-SIA     91      uyna        Second Structural AdJustment                          18.0
2168-4-SM      92    Gua           Second Structural Adjustent                           3.1
Subtotal              14.0     36.6
1729-WA        67    GuyaW         Bauite Industry Tech. Assist.                         7.0       8.4
2168-Sm        91    Gw            Second Structural Adjustment                          74.6    14.S
2168-4-lA      92    Guan          Second Structural Adjustmnt.                           3.1      3.5
2169-SM        91    Guan          Third Technical Assistnce                             3.0       2.5
26-S          92 hI Guyan          SINAP/Health Nutrition and Water                      10.3    10.6
Total (Net of Cancellations)                    76.2    159.0
of Mhich has ben repaid                         44.4       2.1
Total Neld by lank wnd IDA c/                   31.8    156.9
A.omt Sold                              0.8
of uhlih has been repaid                0.8
totat Undisbursed   dt                                             39.7
e..e......................*....
a/ Approved dwim  or after FM.
h/ Not yet effective.
c  Book vatue (131 Current Value SSO.a*  IDA Current Value $15.SM  --
difforenco due to-f tlutuaton in SDR/US$ exchange rate. Converted
at *ote prevaiting at Septesber 30, 192)
dW  Curment VaLu, converted at 510/USA   exchange rat, prevailn  at SeFpteber 30, 1992.
B. taKtement of IFC Iaetments as of September 30, 1992
.0.-...... -.-.......0.--....... ---........... - -.......
............  M  itllone ....
Total
Invest_et  Fiscal                                Type of                              ,       eld by       total
#usbor      Year       orrower                   lsiness          Equity   Loan      Total      IFC     Unfdisbursed
~~~~~~~.....                               .......     . * .-*---.....   ....    ................ *----*.--- ---*- *- -- ............  
_   .   .                   .                ,       ,        ~On      *nC



IlRD 24750
tN.. t   <                    GUYANA
9, ,t @   PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
t  \       >              J           >                          AlC~~~POW~ 
AnLATIC
A~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       A  M   E
-PR(  ROAMS
-SEMONDRV ROAMS
-0--RAILOD
4AONALCMIZAPL *                                                                         4
4 INTMWATONAL AIRPORT                                                           %,        .*
+SEUECTED AJRSThPS
N-RWEAONAL BOUNDARIES
ANM~+ (  0A Isj
o    iO   20    30    40    20
I  I  I                      mty
O  TOWM                    q      ^      <                                    A b \ A 
O 0  20  30 60  50                                                       7 
,e ofe 1a                     M7-.-'                                   \ 
BRAZIL                        Z I L
P t tERU |ZkMH  19



