Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11258-GUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUYANA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1993
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their officiaI duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit--Dollar (G$)
Current Rate (Official): GS$1 = US$0.01 (11/1/92)
US$1 = 125G$ (11/1/92)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m.) = 3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km.) = 0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg.)  2.2046 pounds (lbs.)
1 metric ton (m. ton) = 1.1 US short ton (sh. ton)
1 liter (1.) = 0.264178 US gallon (gal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAs                Constitutional Agencies
CG                 Central Government
CGCED              Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
COFA               Cooperative Finance Administration
CTB                Central Tender Board
DIEC               Department of International Economic Cooperation
ERP                Economic Recovery Program
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GAIBANK            Guyana Cooperative Agricultural & Industrial Development Bank
GCIS               Guyana Cooperative Insurance Service
GCMFB              Guyana Cooperative Mortgage Finance Bank
GEC                Guyana Electricity Corporation
GNCB               Guyana National Cooperative Bank
GNP                Gross National Product
GOG                Government of Guyana
GUYMIDA            Guyana Manufacturing & Industrial Development Agency
GUYMINE            Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited
GUYSUCO            Guyana Sugarcane Corporation
GUYWA              Guyana Water Authority
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IDA                International Development Association
IFC                International Finance Corporation
IMF                International Monetary Fund
LIB                Limited International Bidding
LDOs               Local Democratic Organs
MECD               Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOH                Ministry of Health
MPWCRD             Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
NARI               National Agricultural Research Institute
NIS                National Insurance Scheme
ODA                Overseas Development Administration
PCS                Public Corporations Secretariat
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
PS                 Permanent Secretary
PSAT               Public Service Appellate Tribunal
PSC                Public Service Commission
PSM/OP             Public Service Management, Office of the President
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Cont'd)
PSRP              Public Sector Reform Program
RAs               Regional Administrations
RDCs              Regional Democratic Councils
REO               Regional Executive Officer
SAAs              Semi-Autonomous Agencies
SIMAP             Social Impact Amelioration Program
SPS               State Planning Secretariat
TAC               Technical Assistance Credit
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme



- iv -
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1.    THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A.  Background ......................................... 1
B. Institutional Setting                           ..2
1. Ministries and Departments .3
2. Regional Administrations .3
3. Semi-Autonomous Agencies                          .5
4. Public Corporations .6
5. Financial Entities                           .7
6. Constitutional Agencies                         .8
7. Legislative System .9
8. Judicial System .9
C.  The Public Service .................................... 9
1. Coverage and Organization ............................. 9
2. Personnel Policy and Administration ....................... 9
3. Ongoing Public Service Reform ......................... 10
4. An Assessment of the Ongoing Public Service Reform   ....       ....... 12
D. Public Service Employment and Salaries                    ..                  13
1. Composition of Employment and the Salary Structure ....        ........ 13
2. Employment and Salary Regimes Outside of the Formal Grading System   15
II.  THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                               .        .     16
A.  Project Objectives .................................... 16
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal, appraisal, and postappraisal missions that
visited Guyana in May, June/July, and November 1992. The missions comprised of Antonio
Martin del Campo (Mission Leader and Task Manager), LATPS; Sayeeda Chaudhry,
PHRWD; Jyoti Shukla, EDICD; Prince Taylor-Lewis, LA3C2; David Falcon (Consultant);
Ann Mitchell (Consultant); and Richard Moore (Consultant). M6nica Fidel (LATPS) also
contributed to this report. The responsible managers are Yoshiaki Abe, Director, LA3; and
Shahid A. Chaudhry, Division Chief, LATPS.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .....   ..:   .:   - .   -. - . ... ...   . .   . -
This document has a restricted distribution and may b4 used by ecipien oly i th performancrof th.eir    :
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed Wit Wli  w: -



- v -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
B.   Project Description  ...........    .          ......................               . 17
1. Reforming the Public Service Salary and Employment Structure .....             . 17
2. Public Sector Management Strengthening   ...... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . 20
--Integrated Financial Management ....................... . 20
--Regional Administrations System  ........  .        .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 24
--Personnel Management ...........  ..  ..  ..  .          ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..    . 25
--General Administration ..........  .         ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..    . 27
3. Recruitment Program  .............  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  .         . 27
4. The Project Coordinating Unit and the Preparation of an in-depth Program
for Public Sector Reform  ..........  .         ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .  .  ..  ..    . 29
5. Applying Lessons from Bank Experience ....... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 30
C.   Project Costs and Financing ........   .            ....................            . 31
D.   Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability ........           ...........  .    .  .  .  .    . 31
E.   Project Risks .............  .               ......................... 33
III.   PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   . .........                                  . 33
A.   Organization and Implementation .............  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  .             . 33
B.   Procurement  .....................................  34
C.   Disbursements and Financing  .............  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ...               . 36
D.   Accounts and Audits  .................................                             . 36
E.   Monitoring Project Performance and Impact Evaluation  ...... .           .  .  .  .  .    . 36
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... . .  . 37
ANNEXES:
A  Mission Statements of the Ministries  .........  .        .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    . 39
B  Semi-Autonomous Agencies  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .         ..  ..    . 41
C  Public Corporations               ........... ................................... 42
D  Guyana National Printers Limited--Salary Scales with effect from
January 1, 1992  ..................  ....  ...  ....  ....  ...                    . 43
E  Guyana Fisheries Limited--Salary Scales and Daily Wage Rates
Effective January 1, 1992  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .     ..  ..    . 44
F  Constitutional Agencies  ..............  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...  .           . 45
G  Guyana: Public Sector Employment by GS Scale ...... .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 46
H  Costs of Salaries and Wages by Public Entity .................... . 58
I Capital Expenditures for General Administrative Strengthening  ..... .         .  .  .    . 61
J Total Financing by Project Component and Expenditure Category ..... .            .  .    . 62



- vi -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ATTACHMENTS:
I    Guyana: Public Administration Credit: Matrix of Key Project
Activities ...................................... 63
II    Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Performance Indicators ............................. 68
HI    Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Draft Terms of Reference: Integrated Financial Management  .....          . 70
IV    Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Draft Terms of Reference: Regional Administrations System   ... ... 73
V(a)  Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Draft Terms of Reference: Personnel Management, Phase 1:
Records Keeping System ........................... . 76
V(b)  Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Draft Terms of Reference: Personnel Management, Phase 2:
Personnel Management System  ....................... . 78
VI    Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Draft Terms of Reference: General Administration  ..... .       .  .  .  .  .    . 81
VII(a) Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Draft Terms of Reference: Recruitment Program  ..... .        .  .  .  .  .  .    . 82
VII(b) Guyana: Public Administration Project: Criteria for Selection of Positions
Qualifying for Incentives under the Recruitment Program   ..... .     .    . 85
VH(c) Guyana: Public Administration Project:
Procedures for Appointment under
the Recruitment Program ........................... . 86
VII  Public Sector Development Policy Letter .................... . 87






- vii -
GUYANA
PROPOSED PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of Guyana
Executing Agencies:    Office of the President;
Ministries and Affiliated Departments;
Regional Administrations;
Constitutional Agencies; and certain Semi-Autonomous Agencies,
including State Planning Secretariat, Guyana Water Authority,
Guyana Manufacturing & Industrial Development Agency, the
National Agricultural Research Institute, and the Statistical Bureau
Credit Amount:         SDR 8.65 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Project Objectives:    The proposed project would: (a) facilitate adequate staffing of the
public service, and eliminate staffing redundancies; (b) create
conditions for accountability in financial and personnel
management, as well as in fundamental public sector operational
programs; and (c) support the preparation of a long-term strategy
and program for public sector reform.
Project Description:    The proposed project comprises the following three interrelated
parts: (a) reforming the public service salary and employment
structure; (b) public sector management strengthening, including
components on: (i) integrated financial management, (ii) the
Regional Administrations system, (iii) personnel management, and
(iv) general administration; and (c) a recruitment program.
Benefits:              An efficient public administration is crucial to the success of the
adjustment program. The proposed project would provide
urgently needed assistance to improve the capacity of the public
sector to perform its core functions and develop compensation
incentives that would enable the Government to attract and retain
essential staff. The project would also assist the Government in
strengthening economic policy-making and key public sector
management systems.



- viii -
Risks:                  The project faces two risks: First, the payment of higher salaries
may engender resentment in the population at large and among
public servants not particularly favored by the new salary
structure. This risk would be minimized by implementing a well-
designed salary structure that associates higher salaries with higher
specialized skills and/or management responsibility. An
information campaign also is to be carried out to ensure the
acceptability of the program. Second, since significantly higher
salaries would be paid only for those positions requiring technical
qualifications and responsibilities, it is expected that many
incumbents will fail to qualify. Implementation of the program
would, thus, imply potential political pressures. This risk is
increased by the ethnic polarization of the Guyanese society. To
minimize this risk, disbursement of the IDA funds under this
project will be conditioned to neutral application of a sound salary
structure, monitored through project supervisions and annual
internal audits.
Estimated Project Costs:               Local Foreign Total
------(US$ million)------
Upgrading of the Salary Structure   10.0            10.0
Public Sector Management
Strengthening                     2.2      7.3     9.5
Recruitment Program                 1.3    0.5      1.8
Project Coordinating Unit           0.3     0.4      Q 7
Total Project Costs                13.8    8.2    22.0
Financing Plan:                       Local Foreign Total
------(US$ million)------
Government                         10.0             10.0
IDA                                 3.8     8.2    12.0
Total Financing Plan               13.8    8.2    22.0
Estimated lDA Disbursements:          FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97-98
---------(US$ million)---------
Annual                              0.9   3.1    3.5  2.0    2.5
Cumulative                          0.9   4.0    7.5  9.5   12.0



- 1 -
I. THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Guyana is a former British Colony which achieved independence in 1966. Four years
later it became a Cooperative Republic within the British Commonwealth. In 1980, a new
Constitution was enacted, declaring Guyana an indivisible, secular, democratic sovereign
state in the course of transition from capitalism to socialism.
2.    The policies pursued by the Government of Guyana (GOG) in the 70s and 80s were
characterized as Cooperative Socialism. Foreign-owned enterprises in the sugar and bauxite
sectors were taken into State ownership and the use of price controls and foreign exchange
rationing gave the Government control over most productive sectors. Major financial
institutions, consumer and marketing agencies were under Government control. The growth
in the public sector was matched by a decline in the private sector and the development of a
parallel economy.
3.    Economic performance in the early 70s enabled investment in the public sector to be
maintained at reasonable levels. Worsening economic conditions after 1975 following
declining sugar prices and technical, organizational and financial problems in key sectors
resulted in widening public sector deficits, inflation averaging 20 percent per annum and
increasing reliance on foreign borrowing. This led to a situation in which Guyana could no
longer service its foreign debts. Attempted reforms in the mid-80s were not sufficient to
deal with the problems and investment in public services was inevitably curtailed.
4.    A consequence of the program of nationalization was that many of the expatriate labor
force left the country, taking their expertise. Fear of political persecution and the worsening
economic situation led to large-scale emigration from Guyana, with many of the country's
qualified people being among the emigrants. This loss of skilled workers further exacerbated
the problems the country faced, particularly in maintaining basic public services.
5.    In 1988, the Government announced its Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which
reversed most of the financial and industrial policies pursued since 1970. The public sector
has been reduced through a program of privatization, soon to include the sugar and bauxite
industries. The Government has reduced its involvement in price controls, import
restrictions, tariff imposition, interest rate control, and the sale of foreign exchange. New
tax measures have been introduced, and the prices of utilities have been adjusted to increase
Government revenue.
6.    While the ERP measures have been introduced with speed and determination, the
previous decades have left the residual public sector in a debilitated state with standards of
health care and education falling well below acceptable levels and the state of basic
infrastructure threatening the economic revival the ERP aims to achieve. The GOG lacks the
fiscal resources to invest in skilled public employees, management systems, and physical
resources needed to arrest the decline in the provision of the public services or to maintain
the infrastructure of roads, waterways, and sea defenses.



- 2 -
7.    For Guyana to achieve sustainable economic growth, it is essential that it develops an
efficient public service that can effectively collect revenues and deliver basic services.
Essential activities need to be selected and given priority in the allocation of resources and
the development and use of the work force. A program is, therefore, necessary to revitalize
the public sector no less dramatic than that being pursued to revitalize the economy.
8.    At the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED),
Special Sub-Group meeting for Guyana, held in Paris, in July 1991, donors identified the
dearth of professional and skilled personnel as a major constraint to Guyana's development
efforts. To arrest the continued depletion of the remaining limited pool of trained public
servants and to attract Guyanese nationals abroad to return to Guyana for public service, it
was acknowledged that there is a need for some external assistance towards the development
of an enhanced public service pay structure, including additional incentives, aimed at
facilitating the recruitment of Guyanese nationals abroad. During the June 3, 1992 CGCED
meetings held in Washington, D.C., the donors reiterated the importance of this issue and
expressed approval for the proposed Public Administration Project.
B. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
9.    Guyana has a written Constitution that sets out the legal framework within which the
work of Parliament, the President, the Cabinet, the Ministries and their Departments and the
Regional Administrations (RAs) operate. The President has complete authority over the
structure of the Government and its Ministries. There is no separate Act determining the
structure of the public service and, therefore, legislation is not needed to alter these
arrangements. The public service is, however, affected by other specific pieces of
legislation. Certain posts in the public service are of a statutory nature as they are defined in
legislation; for example, the post of Chief Education Officer is required by the Education
Act. General employment law must be observed by the public service so the Public Service
Rules need to be amended if relevant legislation is passed.
10.   The Local Democratic Organs (LDOs) Act of 1980 provided for the creation of 10
regions with the RAs and the Regional Democratic Councils (RDCs) as "areas of local
Government." The Act also gives the Minister in charge of local Government the authority
to divide the country into subregional units. Presently, Guyana has 6 town municipalities, 19
district councils, 33 village district councils, and 75 Amerindian councils. The LDO Act
also provides the Minister in charge with wide-ranging powers to provide for, by order, the
composition, constitution, rights, responsibilities, and sources of financing of each
democratic organ, as well as the transfer of property, rights and obligations from any LDO
to another. As presently defined, the roles and responsibilities of the RAs integrate them
inextr.icably with the functions of the Central Government (CG) system. The other LDOs
carry out their roles and responsibilities largely outside the CG system.
11.   The Constitution establishes a number of Constitutional Agencies (CAs) which have
specific functions to ensure probity in the conduct of public affairs, and defines the
legislative and judicial systems. The public sector also includes Semi-Autonomous Agencies
(SAAs), Financial Entities, and Public Corporations all of which were established by
legislative Act.



-3-
Ministries and Departments
12.   The GOG, with the support of the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of
the British Government, has initiated a program designed to reorganize the ministeriai
structure of the CG and create an organizational structure for each Ministry suited to its
particular role. This has led to a reduction in the number of Ministries from 18 to I1 which was
effected in 1991. The new Ministries are:
-- Office of the President
-- Ministry of Legal Affairs
-- Ministry of Foreign Affairs
-- Ministry of Home Affairs
-- Ministry of Agriculture
-- Ministry of Health
-- Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
-- Ministry of Labour, Human Services and Social Security
-- Ministry of Finance
-- Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry
-- Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
See Annex A for the mission statements of the Ministries.
13.   Each Ministry is structured into a number of divisions, which are the direct responsibility
of the Permanent Secretary (PS) and must follow the norms and procedures of the Ministry.
Alongside this divisional structure, some Ministries contain relatively autonomous departments
whose heads report directly to the Minister. For example, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has
responsibility for the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise Departments.
14.   The RAs, discussed in detail below, have their greatest interaction with the Ministry of
Public Works, Communications and Regional Development (MPWCRD), under whose overall
ministerial umbrella they are found, as well as the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA), Education
and Cultural Development (MECD), and Health (MOH).
15.   The MOF has a broad portfolio of responsibilities, reflected in the number of major
Departments under its jurisdiction. The Ministry plays a leading role in economic management
in general and in the ERP in particular, liaises with donors providing aid programs and
supervises the operations of financial institutions, while simultaneously managing budgeting.
expenditure control and accounting for all public expenditures. The Inland Revenue and Custorns
and Excise Departments are responsible for the collection of revenue.
Regional Administrations
16.   The system of CG in Guyana includes the RAs in the 10 regions, charged with delegated
operational responsibilities in the health, education, agriculture, and infrastructure sectors. Each
of the 10 regions also has an elected Regional Democratic Council (RDC).
17.   The RAs and the RDCs were established in 1980 under the LDO Act with the stated
objectives of ensuring "popular participation" and managing the development of the regions
"guided by the general policies of the CG." These dual objectives were designed to be achieved
with the Ministries in the health, education, agriculture, and infrastructure sectors taking



- 4 -
responsibility for policy formulation and coordination, and the RAs delivering the services with
due responsiveness to local conditions. The Ministries were to limit themselves broadly to
strategic planning, policy control, provision of technical advice, overall monitoring, and
construction of some infrastructure. The RAs were to manage the operational aspects of nursery,
primary, and secondary education, the day-to-day workings of the health system,' the provision
of extension services, and the operation and maintenance of roads, river and sea defenses,
irrigation and water facilities. To further facilitate the linkage between the center and the
regions, the RAs were to be staffed by public servants on rotation from the Ministries who could
implement central policies. Local input and responsiveness were to be provided by the general
supervision of the Regional Democratic Council (RDC).
18.   In practice, however, the system has not worked effectively either in ensuring popular
participation or in the implementation of central policies, for several reasons. First, financial and
staffing constraints are even more severe in the regions than in other parts of the Guyanese public
sector. Even though the operational responsibilities for most of the major programs of the
Government are handled by regional staff, their grade levels and salaries are far below their
equivalents in the center, with consequent difficulties in the recruitment and retention of staff in
the regions. Financial constraints are also stringent--for delivering the complex and multisectoral
set of services mentioned above, the regions receive only 5 percent of the total current budget of
the Government, from which they must pay salaries, as well as other current costs of the
programs.
19.    Second, operational arrangements to ensure effective linkages between the staff in the
regions and the policy-making Ministries are inadequate and ineffective. In 1980, when the RAs
were established, a physical decentralization of staff resources to the regions was initiated but the
operational procedures for program planning, staffing, management, reporting, and accountability
were inadequately or inappropriately designed. For example, under the present system,
operational responsibility for the implementation of central prograrns is with the Regional
Sectoral Officers (RSOs). These RSOs report to the Regional Executive Officer (REO), who also
has the financial authority and responsibility for programs in all sectors. The REO, however, is
not a public servant and not accountable to the policy-making Ministries.2 The Ministries,
therefore, have virtually no downstream control on the implementation of their policies. Their
regional representatives report to the REO, their regional budget is expended by the REO, but
there is no mechanism for the Ministries to hold the REO accountable for the delivery of their
sectoral programs.
20.    Third, the void created by the tenuous linkages to the Ministries has not been filled by a
responsive and active RDC holding the RA responsible for standards of service delivery.
Instead, in the system that has evolved, the RDCs are able to avoid responsibility for ensuring
service delivery in the region as they neither levy any taxes on the population nor set the policy.
The RDCs have, instead, tended to use their supervisory powers over the RAs for day-to-day
interference and political advantage rather than for ensuring popular participation.
' Some programs, mostly those with a high foreign aid component, like maternal and child health care and the
malaria program, are administered directly by the center.
2 The REO is appointed by the Minister of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development on the
recommendation of the RDC. He reports to the Minister and is also accountable to the RDC.



21.   Finally, the lack of accountability of the RAs for standards of service delivery to either
the sectoral Ministries or the RDCs is further accentuated by the absence of effective financial
controls and audits of the resources being transferred to the regions, mirroring the Government-
wide absence of accounts and scrutiny in Guyana. The combination of all the above factors
implies that the system of RAs in Guyana at present is essentially a transfer of resources from the
center to the RAs for the purpose of service delivery with little accountability for either the levels
of service delivery or for the expending of funds.
22.   The institutional weaknesses of the present system of RAs are, thus, a major constraint to
improving the standards of service delivery in the social and infrastructure sectors in Guyana. As
noted above, these weaknesses translate into inefficient implementation of programs.
Additionally, they have also implied the virtual nonexistence of monitoring of the services
actually provided in the regions. The absence of such a data base has severely impeded, and will
continue to impede, the Government's efforts at revenue collection and cost recovery, further
exacerbating the resource constraints of the Government and completing the loop of continually
deteriorating standards of services in the regions.
Semi-Autonomous Agencies
23.   The Ministries and their Departments and the RAs of the CG are supplemented by a
number of SAAs. Each SAA is created by an Act of Parliament, controlled by a supervisory
board and reporting directly to the subject Minister. SAAs are intermediate in character between
Government departments and Public Corporations. While they have considerable operational
autonomy and flexibility in operations, staffing and pay policies, they are currently not revenue-
earning authorities and mainly receive their resources from the national budget. Thus, SAAs are
allowed to follow their own employment and pay policies and their employees are not members
of the public service. However, in the absence of independent sources of revenues, the reality of
this autonomy is limited by the budgetary constraints imposed by the MOF. Further, the salary
structure in some SAAs has historically been based on the public service, though they do not
move "pari passu" with changes in public service salaries.
24.   Annex B gives a list of the SAAs in Guyana. These range considerably in character from
educational and research institutions like the University of Guyana and the Guyana Management
Institute, to donor-funded projects like the SIMAP and agencies like the State Planning Secretariat
(SPS), which is essentially an executive office of the State Planning Commission, as well as
entities like the Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA), which also has the nature Public
Corporation.
25.   While there is some justification for the semi-autonomous operations of agencies that
deliver products or services different from a Government department, e.g., the University of
Guyana, the rationale for some others, like the SPS to be outside the Government departmental
structure is less clear. There is also little economic justification for a public corporation like
GUYWA to have semi-autonomous status and continued dependence on the central budget. This
is especially so given the costs implied by the present system. As each agency has the autonomy
to set its own policies and salary structures, this has led to a large number of salary scales in the
public sector that basically depend on the same budget, with additional loss of transparency and
high transaction costs in maintaining parity across organizations. These transaction costs are
especially high in the present environment of frequent adjustments in salaries and allowances in
the public service, leading to constant pressures for readjustment of salaries in each of the SAAs.
The SPS is a case in point. Salaries in the SPS were initially pegged to be above equivalent



-6 -
g,a' ;s in zWhe civil service to compensate for the technical skills of the staff. However, with
r.~r;fu]t increases in the civil service pay and/or allowances in the past year, SPS salaries have
.agged. leading to poor morale and constant negotiations.
^6.    Given the inefficiencies inherent in the present arrangements, some rationalization of this
sector should be considered, including over the longer term, the reexamination of the rationale
'.or the semi-atitonomous nature of some of the agencies. Over the longer term, those agencies
that have the potential for full cost recovery must eventually become completely autonomous and
linancially independent of the central budget, e.g., GUYWA. Agencies which essentially provide
a servicc similar to other Government departments, should be integrated with the larger public
sfrVice, shedding their semi-autonomous nature, e.g., SPS.
27.   It is likely that there will remain a group of SAAs for which full cost recovery is not
feasible, yet a degree of managerial autonomy is considered desirable. For this group, the
rationaiization of the salary structures of the SAAs in the form of stated parities with public
service g1rades could be considered. This would preserve the autonomous nature of the agencies
.n allowing them to determine the desired parity of their staff to public service grades, but would
eliminate the need for incurring the high transaction costs of renegotiating each salary structure
independently. While this does imply that each salary increase announced for the public service
wil! atutomatically have a wider application and a higher budget cost, this process actually makes
the total cost of an announced public service salary increase more transparent and calculable up
front.
Public Corporations
28.   A significant component of the public sector in Guyana consists of Public Corporations
established to deliver goods and services. See Annex C for a complete list. These corporations
are governed by the Public Corporations Act of 1988, which empowers the Minister in charge to
establish corporations, and with the affirmation of the National Assembly (NA), to dissolve them.
29.    The socialist policies followed by the GOG and the nationalization of the two major
export industries, bauxite and sugar, in the 70s implied that Public Corporations contributed as
much as 85 percent of the Gross National Product (GNP) and employed two-thirds of the total
workers in the public sector in the late 80s. The Public Corporations sector itself was dominated
by three major enterprises--the Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited (GUYMINE), Guyana
Sugarcane Corporation (GUYSUCO) and the Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC)--the three
together accounting for 60 percent of the total operating revenue of all public enterprises.
30.   Since the late 80s and in consonance with its ERP, the Government has actively pursued
divestment in all sectors of the economy. Twelve major nonfinancial enterprises in
relecornmunications, retail distribution, timber, paint, road transport and fisheries, as well as
several rice mills have already been divested. Steps towards restructuring/privatization of
GUYSUCO are being undertaken and the Government has identified a firm to take over the
management of GUYMINE and restructure its operations. Other firms slated for privatization
include a pharmaceutical plant, an edible oil factory, a glasswork, a feed supplier, the national
airline and a textile firm, Thus, under the present policies of the Government, the Public
Corporations sector will continue to decline in size and importance in the Guyanese economy.
31.    hIS'it rialy, Public Corporations in Guyana fall under two groups: (a) independent
corporationis like GUYMINE and GUYSUCO that report directly to the subject Ministers or the



-7-
Office of the President; and (b) those overseen by the Public Corporations Secretariat (PCS).
The PCS was established in 1988 and presently oversees some 16 corporations formerly of the
Guyana State Corporation (GUYSTAC) group. The PCS is responsible for overall monitoring of
management of the corporations, including the formation of Boards of Directors where they do
not exist, approval of budgets, dividend policies, and assisting in the ultimate divestment of the
corporation.
32.   Public Corporations in Guyana are autonomous in their employment policies. However,
those corporations that fall under the ambit of the PCS, are guided in their grading and pay
increases by norms of parity across corporations. The PCS also approves the annual pay
increases for these corporations according to the corporation's performance and ability to pay.
This has caused the salary structures to vary considerably across Public Corporations. Annexes
D and E show the variation in salaries between the Guyana Fisheries Limited and the Guyana
National Printers Limited. Salaries in the more successful corporations are more than double
those in an equivalent grade in the poorest performing ones. This has also implied that
remuneration in successful Public Corporations is roughly comparable to that in the private
sector, and much higher than in the public service.
Financial Entities
33.   All public financial institutions are part of an umbrella organization, the Cooperative
Finance Administration (COFA), created in 1976 by an Act of Parliament. COFA's role in the
financial system is to provide support to the public sector financial institutions in mobilizing and
channeling financial resources into the appropriate areas in order to foster economic growth. The
Minister of Finance is the Chairman of COFA, and is assisted by its Executive Secretary who has
a nonvoting seat on the respective Board of Directors of the institutions. COFA's functions
include: (a) holding the shares (if any) of the Government in these entities; (b) providing an
advisory role for the financial institutions; and (c) giving directions regarding COFA policies,
including matters related to employment and conditions of service.
34.   The supervisory structure, created by the COFA Act, leaves the institution with more
functions than it has the capacity to perform. Since its creation, COFA has never undertaken an
examination of the institutions under its jurisdiction, and appears to have limited influence over
their activities. COFA's regulatory functions should be transferred to the Bank of Guyana.
Operationally, COFA should be merged with the MOF and have a gradually phased-out role of
supervising the divestment of the State's shares in the financial institutions and of dismantling the
nonviable institutions.
35.   At present, there are six institutions under COFA's jurisdiction. These include: the
development bank (Guyana Cooperative Agricultural & Industrial Development Bank--
GAIBANK), the mortgage finance institution (Guyana Cooperative Mortgage Finance Bank--
GCMFB), the trust company (GNCB Trust Corporation), the commercial bank (Guyana National
Cooperative Bank--GNCB), the social security organization (National Insurance Scheme--NIS)
and the insurance service (Guyana Cooperative Insurance Service--GCIS).
36.   The rationale for GAIBANK is to provide long-term development lending in areas in
which private capital is not forthcoming. It is also the only formal financial institution that lends
to the rural sector, where the only other source of finance is the informal market which charges
rates of up to 20 percent per month. As GAIBANK does not accept deposits from the public, its
funds come mostly (90 percent) from development credits from donors and international agencies.



- 8 -
GAITBANK suffers from bad loans and serious arrears collection problems. At present, its
accumulated losses are 10 times its equity. The bank lends at subsidized rates below the
Government's cost of borrowing and provides lenders with 1 to 2 years grace period, a departure
from commercial bank practices. Although interest rates are supposed to be fully liberalized, the
unwarranted dominance of the state casts doubt on the degree of "market" determination. It is
rnow recognized that GAIBANK should be restructured in order to strengthen its enforcement and
collection, and to make its credit operations more aligned with accepted economic practices.
37.   GCMFB was developed as a means for channeling Government funds to housing
cevelopment for low-income people at subsidized rates. With 20 percent of its portfolio in
arre ars, it is no longer financially viable. GNCB Trust also offers mortgage finance services, but
unlike GCMFB, lends at market rates. With GNCB Trust and the more viable, privately owned
New Building Society operating in the same market, there is no justification for GCMFB. A
proposal is currently underway to merge GCMFB with GNCB Trust.
38    GNCB Trust is the largest of the commercial banks with 12 branches and 516 employees
and is under the supervision of the Bank of Guyana. Although it provides 75 percent of all
financ al sector loans, the lack of quality control and poor financial performance has caused 25
percent of its loan portfolio to be in arrears. A new Act is being drafted that would put GNCB
enitirely under the jurisdiction of the Bank of Guyana. New initiatives also are being undertaken
to improve lending policy and financial control.
39.   The NIS is a compulsory insurance plan for private and public sector employees which
covers health and retirement. GCIS sells casualty and other forms of insurance. Both are being
rapidly decapitalized, partly because, in the past, they were forced to invest in Government debt
instruments at below market rates, and also because they have been adversely affected by
inflation. In 1991, their assets declined in real terms by 50 percent relative to the 1989 level.
40.   The financial entities, like the Public Corporations, have independent employment and
salary policies and finance employment through their own resources. Employment in these
entities would, therefore, not be directly addressed under the proposed project.
Constitutional Agencies
41.   The Constitution of Guyana creates a number of commissions and other independent
agencies with specific functions which are listed in Annex F. The agencies which have the most
direct relevance to this exercise are the Office of the Auditor General, the Public Service
Commission (PSC) and the Public Service Appellate Tribunal (PSAT).
42.   The Auditor General exercises an external control function over public expenditure
authorized by Parliament and committed by Government. He/She audits and reports on all public
accounts, presents these reports to the Minister of Finance who is required to put them before the
National Assembly, and investigates specific cases of alleged misappropriation of public funds.
The independence of the Auditor General would be enhanced if an Audit Act were passed,
making the Office of the Auditor General a Statutory Body, giving the National Assembly direct
control over its budget, extending its mandate to include the execution of Value for Money
studies and making provision for reports to be presented directly to the Public Accounts
Committee of the National Assembly.



-9 -
43.   PCS is the focal point for decision making on matters of public service management. It is
responsible for the recruitment, selection, appointment, promotion, discipline, grievance,
resignation, retirement, and termination of appointments of all, with a few very senior
exceptions, members of the public service. While the functions of the PSC are defined by the
Constitution, it has authority, subject to the approval of the Prime Minister, to delegate these
functions, through an Instrument of Delegation, to members of the public service. There is,
thus, scope for routine functions to be handled by individual Ministries, under "arm's length'
supervision by the PSC. The PSAT considers appeals against decisions made by the PSC.
Legislative System
44.   The power to make laws is vested by the Constitution in the Parliament, which consists of
the President and the National Assembly. The National Assembly has 65 members, 53 of whom
are elected on the basis of proportional representation. Each political party lists the names of its
candidates, separately identifying its Presidential candidate. Electors have a single vote which is
cast for a list. The number of candidates elected from each list is directly proportional to the
number of votes cast. The Presidential candidate whose name appears on the list which receives
the most votes is elected President. The remaining seats in the National Assembly are filled by
10 people appointed by the 10 RDCs and by two people appointed by the National Congress of
LDO, a body established by the Constitution which represents local Government interests in
Guyana.
45.   In Guyana, the only Parliamentary committee that exists to scrutinize the activities of
Government is the Public Accounts Committee. This Committee has not met for some time and
legislative scrutiny of Government expenditure is not taking place.
Judicial System
46.   The Judicial System is defined by the Constitution which establishes a Supreme Court,
consisting of the Court of Appeal, the High Court and the Full Court. The High Court conducts
trials on serious crimes with appeals being heard by the Court of Appeal. Magistrates Courts
deal with less serious cases and appeals against their decisions are taken to the Full Court.
Judges and Magistrates, all of whom are qualified lawyers, are appointed by the President on the
advice of the Judicial Service Commission.
C. THE PUBLIC SERVICE
Coverage and Organization
47.   The Public Service includes the public servants working for the Ministries and their
affiliated Departments, the RAs, and the CAs. The Head of the Public Service serves as the
Head of the Presidential Secretariat, as the Cabinet Secretary, and as the Senior Public Servant in
the Office of the President which now contains Public Service Management (PSM), the former
Public Service Ministry, which has its own PS.
Personnel Policy and Administration
48.   Responsibility for personnel policy and administration is divided between the PSC, PSM,
individual Ministries, RAs and, for payroll purposes, the MOF.



- 10 -
49.   The appointment procedure is activated by the employing body. A job description,
approved and graded by PSM, is sent to the Commission which, together with the employing
body, arranges for the post to be advertised and for candidates to be shortlisted and interviewed.
Promotions recommended by the employing body likewise are sent to the Commission for
approval.
50.   Employment can be terminated for disciplinary reasons. Disciplinary proceedings are
activated by the employing body which refers the case to the Commission once all local
disciplinary procedures have been exhausted. Grievance proceedings are activated by the
individual member of the public service who takes his/her case to the Commission, again after all
local actions have been taken.
51.   The Public Service Rules also include procedures to terminate the employment of public
servants whose posts are eliminated in a reorganization. The procedures, however, are rarely
used as there is a disinclination to dismiss on these grounds and redeployment to another post is
normally used. Given the high vacancy rates that have existed, it always has been possible to
find a post into which the person can be redeployed.
52.   The Public Service Rules contain broad powers allowing PSM to effect the redeployment
of staff, working through PSC, between different entities within the public service, subject to the
agreement of both entities and to the individual being offered a position with terms and conditions
no less favorable than those currently enjoyed. The use of these powers has been largely in
response to requests from, or related to, individuals and there is no recent experience of a large
scale redeployment exercise.
53.   PSM is responsible for all personnel policies in the public service. These responsibilities
include determining the numbers of posts in the Ministries (in consultation with the MOF in
relation to the annual budget), establishing salary and grading levels, developing training
programs, including scholarship support, and providing consulting support through its
Management Services Division.
54.   Individual Ministries and RAs are responsible for day- to-day management of staff, their
training and appraisal, and for maintaining employment and salaries within the limits approved by
PSM. Overall, personnel management is still highly centralized, and the Ministries and RAs
have little delegated authority.
Ongoing Public Service Reform
55.   In 1990, the GOG, with assistance from ODA, initiated a program of public service
reform, focusing on the restructuring of the Ministries and the strengthening of the institutional
capacity of the former Public Service Ministry.
56.   The rationale behind the reduction in the number of Ministries from 18 to 11 was to
reduce the duplication of activities in similar areas of Government policy, thus increasing
coherence in policy formulation and in the delivery of services. Reforms were expected to lead
to a reduction in excessive interministry coordination and improve coordination between the
Ministries and the RAs. These reforms would enable the Government to make better use of the
scarce managerial, professional and technical staff and permit both a rationalization of staffing
levels in support functions and increased efficiency in the use of resources.



- 11 -
57.   The conceptual framework used in the restructuring program was:
Management of the policy making process and public service
Office of the President, including the former separate Public Service Ministry
Economic and fiscal management, revenue collection and public expenditure
Ministry of Finance
Production
Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry
Social well-being
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Ministry of Labour, Human Services and Social Security
Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
Law and order
Ministry of Legal Affairs
Ministry of Home Affairs
External affairs
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
58.   The final stage of this restructuring, the implementation of organizational change in the
Ministries of Home Affairs, Legal Affairs and Foreign Affairs, still awaits an operational date
pending the resolution of the staffing complement in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
59.   It is clear that problems caused by financial constraints, and particularly the immediate
consequences of depressed public service salaries, have inhibited the full implementation of the
review and the realization of improvements in efficiency and effectiveness. The reforms have
focused on rationalizing the organizational structure of the CG with very little progress on reform
of the public service pay scale. The latter is, however, fundamental to the success of the reform
program since the ability to pay competitive salaries will be essential for attracting and retaining
a skilled work force.
60.   The creation of fewer, larger Ministries has permitted central services to be merged, with
little direct labor reduction as the more senior posts already suffer from a high vacancy rate. A
number of other noncritical positions were eliminated in the review process, but as these
positions were vacant, this has not led to any reduction in the number of employees in the public
service.
61.   The reform program has begun to strengthen the institutional capacity of PSM,
particularly in the areas of job evaluation and salary administration, personnel systems
development and management services. A major job evaluation exercise has been undertaken but
limited progress has been made on other aspects of strengthening PSM, and particularly on
proposals to delegate greater authority to the Ministries. Similar proposals to delegate powers of
the PSC to the Ministries are making slow progress.



- 12 -
62.   The relationship between PSM, the PSC and other Ministries exhibits a very centralized
approach with a strong emphasis on formal control and central direction. Individual Ministries
regard this continuing central control as a major barrier to effective organizational change in their
own operations. In order to maintain their operations, Ministries have adopted strategies which
by-pass the formal procedures. For example, people are appointed on temporary contracts to
avoid the delays experienced in making permanent appointments. The inability to resolve the
critical salary issue has led to a very large number of individual contracts, with a lack of
transparency and significant salary differences between Ministries for what is ostensibly the same
level of responsibility.
63.   The target of improved coordination is starting to be achieved in those ministries where
associated activities have been brought together. For example, in the Ministry of Labour,
Human Services and Social Security, provision to support disadvantaged families is now being
planned in a more coherent way and steps are being taken to integrate delivery arrangements.
The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development has been able to
improve coordination of its regional works activities now that a single Ministry oversees the RAs
and public works. But the Ministries of Education, Health, and Agriculture have not benefitted
from improved coordination with RAs. Integration of activities within new Ministries and
improvements in managerial efficiency and effectiveness depend upon the further implementation
of the public service reform measures and progress on this implementation is generally slow.
64.   A Task Force, consisting of the Permanent Secretaries, was established which now directs
the ongoing reform program. The immediate pressures on the public service and the need to
resolve immediate problems have resulted in insufficient attention being given by the Task Force
to the reform program. Mechanisms for strategic planning and review are limited; the regular
meetings of Permanent Secretaries focus on specific issues to the exclusion of broader questions.
An Assessment of the Ongoing Public Service Reform
65.   The rationalization of the Ministry structure was based upon existing programs and
activities with minimal appraisal of the overall role of Government and the activities in which it
should be engaged. An in-depth appraisal could have led to a far more significant prioritization
of activities and deployment of resources.
66.   Another serious failure of the reform program has been in its implementation which has
largely resulted from staffing problems within individual public entities. The conceptualization of
the overall reform process did not prepare for implementation from the outset. The whole
approach of placing the major responsibility for designing the reform on external consultants and
the Management Services Division of PSM, while placing the responsibility for implementation
on the Ministries fails to recognize the human dimension of organizational change.
Communications with all levels of staff, both providing information on the program and seeking
contributions, were inadequate to generate widespread understanding of the problems and
commitment to the solutions. Training and development programs to increase the capability of
key staff involved in implementation have not been adequate and potential sources of such
programs (e.g., the Guyana Management Institute) have not been strengthened as an integral part
of the program. Strategic leadership from the Task Force has been insufficient to generate the
momentum necessary to sustain a broad based reform program.
67.   Furthermore, the ongoing public service reform should have been placed in the broader
context of public sector reform. Effective reform requires a more fundamental appraisal of the



- 13 -
priority activities of Government and on areas of public administration that are closely linked
with the public service system such as financial management. The existing financial systems
employed by the Government are too centralized to provide useful management information to the
Ministries and too cumbersome to enable proper accountability to be exercised. There is no
prospect of improving the quality of the public service unless a new financial system is put in
place.
68.   Much, therefore, remains to be done to achieve an efficient and effective public service in
Guyana. The program so far has usefully rationalized the Ministry structure, exposed the frailty
of the financial systems, produced a strategy for the eventual devolution of personnel functions
and prepared implementation reports for each Ministry. A process which maintains an ongoing
review of these reports and develops a more effective and comprehensive administrative reform
of the public sector still needs to be pursued.
D. PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT AND SALARIES
Composition of Employment and the Salary Structure
69.   Of the recorded 18,608 approved positions in the public service in Guyana, 67 percent are
in the Ministries (including the affiliated Departments), 31 percent are in the RAs, and 2 percent
are in the CAs, as shown in Table 1 and Annex G.3 Within the Ministries, approved positions
are particularly high in the Ministries of Home Affairs, Health, Finance, and Education which
account for 42, 22, 9 and 9 percent of the total for the Ministries, respectively.
70.   The primary weakness of the public service system has been the sharp deterioration in
public salaries. Between 1986 and 1991, real wages in the CG declined by almost 20 percent.4
This deterioration was even more substantial in the higher levels of the salary scale. Salaries in
high level administrative and technical positions are particularly low, as reflected in the
compression ratio5 which is currently estimated to be about 6:1.
71.   Official public service salaries are also extremely low when compared with those in the
Public Corporations and in the private sector, especially for high level positions. Whereas
average salaries for support staff and low level technical staff in the Public Corporations are 1.5-
2 times their level in the public service, senior level management can earn 3-5 times more in
some Public Corporations, and even more in the private sector. These comparisons illustrate the
strong incentive for professionals to leave the public service.
3 Employment data are based on 'staff lists' obtained in late August 1992 by PSM from the individual Ministries, RAs
and CAs.
4SPS and IMF estimate, as given in the World Bank, CEM.
5 The compression ratio is measured as the ratio of the midpoint of the monthly salary for the highest salary
grade to the midpoint for the lowest.



- 14 -
Table 1: Composition of Public Employment by Government Entity
Ministries/  Regional Constitutional       Total
Departments Administ. Agencies
Approved Positions                      12551        5685          372            18608
% of Total                             67.4         30.6          2.0            100.0
Filled Positions                        8067         3465          228            11760
% of Total                            68.6         29.5          1.9            100.0
Vacancies                              4484          2220          144            6848
% of Approved                         35.7         39.1          38.7           36.8
Annual Costs of Salaries and Wages 1/
G$ Millions                           496.3        170.9         27.7           694.9
US$ Millions                           3.97         1.37         0.22            5.56
% of Total                             71.4         24.6         4.0            100.0
Source: Gavernment of Guyana, Office of the President, Public Service Management.
1/ Estimated assuming salaries are at the midpoint of the range for each salary grade.
Table 2: Distribution of Public Employment by Salary Grade
1-5       6-9           10-14         15-Spec
% of Total in Each Grade Group:
Total Positions Approved    72.6        17.8         8.1            1.5
Ministries/Departments     70.3       18.6          9.2           1.9
Regional Administrations   80.5       15.7          3.8           0.0
Constitutional Agencies    28.0       26.3         34.4           11.3
Total Positions Filled       74.7       16.2         7.4            1.7
Ministries/Departments     71.6       17.6          8.8           2.0
Regional Administrations   84.9       12.5          2.6           0.0
Constitutional Agencies    28.1       22.8         34.6           14.5
Total Vacancies              68.9       20.7         9.2            1.2
Ministries/Departments     67.9       20.3         10.1           1.7
Regional Administrations   73.6       20.6          5.8           0.0
Constitutional Agencies    27.8       31.9         34.0           6.3
Average for Each Grade Group:
Vacancies as % of Approved   35.9       45.0         39.9          28.2
Ministries/Departments     33.9       40.9         36.6           28.8
Regional Administrations    42.7      58.7         66.9           0.0
Constitutional Agencies    45.1       35.7         60.9          30.9
Source: Govemment of Guyana, Office of the President, Public Service Management.



- 15 -
72.   Low public service salaries have, in fact, led to an outflow of professionals from the
public sector to the domestic private sector and abroad. As a result, about 35 percent of
approved positions in the Ministries are vacant and 39 percent in both the CAs and the RAs.
Within the Ministries, vacancy rates range from 21 percent in the Ministry of Labour, Human
Services and Social Security to 51 percent in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
73.   Overall, the distribution of vacancies across salary grades is relatively even, although
somewhat higher for grades 6-9 and 10-14, where most technical staff is graded, and lower for
the highest salary grades. Vacancies average 36 percent of approved positions in grades 1-5, 45
percent in grades 6-9, 40 percent in grades 10-14, and 28 percent in grades 15-Special (see Table
2). There is evidence, however, that the similarity in vacancy rates across grades masks
differences in both the need and the opportunity to fill vacancies across grades. On the one
hand, the shortage of qualified applicants may have caused some high level positions to be filled
by individuals with insufficient qualifications. This would imply the need to raise salaries to
attract more qualified workers even for those posts that are currently filled. On the other hand,
given the high number of approved positions in the lower grades, high vacancy rates in these
salary grades may imply that there exists a large number of noncritical vacancies that should be
eliminated rather than filled. In fact, the number of budgeted positions is substantially less than
the approved positions, meaning that in budgetary terms the Government has already recognized
that a majority of vacancies will not be filled.
74.   Another problem with public employment is the high number of support and other low
level staff relative to professional and technical personnel, as shown in Table 2. On average in
the Ministries over 70 percent of approved positions are in grades 1 through 5. These positions
account for 92, 77, and 73 percent of approved positions in the Ministries of Public Works,
Home Affairs, and Agriculture, respectively. While some Ministries, such as the MOF, the
Office of the President, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have much lower shares of positions
in grades 1 through 5, this results from the practice of raising salaries by shifting positions into
higher salary grades and, therefore, may not reflect a lower concentration of support staff. In the
CAs positions, levels 1-5 account for only 28 percent of approved positions, and in the RAs they
account for an average of 80 percent. The high concentration of low level positions in some
cases results from the need to hire several individuals with lower skills to perform activities that
should be carried out by a higher skilled individual who cannot be attracted at existing salary
levels. Overall this evidence implies that there will exist significant labor redundancy, especially
in low level positions, once higher level positions are filled as a result of the upgrading of the
salary scale.
Employment and Salary Regimes Outside of the Formal Grading System
75.   The Government has employed a variety of mechanisms to ameliorate staffing problems in
the public service by providing special salaries and allowances outside of the formal grading
system. A few Ministries--the MOF, the Office of the President, and the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs--have raised salaries by shifting all positions into higher salary grades, resulting in the
payment of significantly different salaries for similar positions across Government entities. This
inconsistency in remuneration has fostered resentment and low morale in those Ministries not
receiving higher salaries, and also has greatly reduced labor mobility across entities. Since July
1991, in order to attract and retain high level staff, "special" salaries and allowances have been
given to the positions of PS, Deputy PS and selected positions below this level. Some of these
"specials," as well as selected other critical personnel such as doctors, receive "special contracts"



- 16 -
that provide salaries and allowances which are, in some cases, well above those in the formal
salary system.
76.   In July 1991, the Government established a system of "market supplements" which
provides salary supplements to key professional and technical positions. Under this program,
about 350 selected positions within salary grades 14-16 receive a 50 percent salary supplement
and those in lower grades receive 30 percent. Post selection for salary supplements was based on
the difficulty of recruitment into the posts and the academic qualifications and experience of the
holder. The goal of the program was not only to provide compensation that more closely
corresponds with the market, but also to focus particularly on positions in Ministries that had not
already benefitted from higher salaries.
77.   Another mechanism established by the Government to compensate for the lack of
personnel in high level positions is the system of "acting up." Under this system, individuals
holding a lower level post are given an "acting up" allowance in exchange for assuming the
responsibilities of a higher level position. Although there exist formal arrangements for
providing and accounting for these benefits, the effect is to introduce yet another distortion in the
salary structure and to exacerbate the problem of lack of transparency across the system.
78.   Individual Ministries, RAs, and also CAs have taken their own actions to fill key
positions by hiring staff without official approval by either PSM or the PSC. In some cases,
individuals are hired as "acting" personnel in positions that have "not yet" been approved by
PSM. As these positions are not officially approved, holders can be paid salaries outside the
official salary scale. In other cases, individuals which have not been approved by PSC fill posts
on a temporary basis, although the position remains officially vacant. As PSM in this case has
no records of the post being filled, this practice leads to overestimation of vacancy rates.
"Temporary" staff are also hired to perform specific tasks or to fill vacancies on a short-term
contractual basis. These temporary positions are particularly important in the RAs in which
vacancy rates are especially high. Each of these mechanisms enables Government entities to staff
activities, while officially the corresponding positions remain vacant, thus distorting the central
records system of employment.
79.   The end result of the various distortions in salaries and in the relationship between jobs
and positions has been the creation of a personnel records system that is neither transparent nor
consistent. The lack of transparency leads to a lack of accountability and puts upward pressures
on the budget. The responsible agencies in the personnel administration system are unable to
track positions, and there are few means for evaluating performance or linking pay to
performance. The agencies responsible for internal and external financial control, therefore, have
little opportunity to exercise their function in accounting for wages and salaries accurately.
II. THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
80.   The main objective of the project would be to provide urgently needed assistance to
maintain and improve the capacity of the public sector to perform its core functions. The thrust
of the project is twofold: (a) to facilitate adequate staffing of key public service positions, and to
eliminate staffing redundancies; and (b) to create conditions for accountability in financial and
personnel management, as well as in fundamental operational programs. The project would



- 17 -
support the first phase of the Government's longer-term strategy for public sector reform, and
would assist in preparing the next phase of the program. The broad principles underlying the
strategy and process by which they would be translated into concrete measures are set out in a
Public Sector Development Policy Letter of the Government.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
81.   The main parts of the proposed project are:
(a) reforming the public service salary and employment structure;
(b) public sector management strengthening, including components on: (i) Integrated
Financial Management; (ii) RAs System; (iii) Personnel Management; and (iv) General
Administration; and
(c) a recruitment program including: (i) the definition of coverage and selection criteria; (ii)
an advertising campaign; (iii) an incentive package and (iv) a system for managemen, and
monitoring of the program.
Reforming the Public Service Salary and Employment Structure
82.   Salary Scale and Employment Practices. Rather than continue the ad hoc system of
providing special contracts and allowances and hiring personnel unofficially, the proposed
reforms would introduce structural changes in the public service salary scale and employment
practices that would enable public servants at all levels to be adequately and transparently
compensated within the formal grading system. Such reforms entail decompression of the salary
scale, the shifting of some positions, particularly technical ones, into higher salary grades and the
incorporation of all special contracts, allowances, and other salary enhancements into the formal
grading system. In order to have a meaningful effect on staffing, the new salary structure takes
into account salary comparators for similar positions in the private sector, thus implying
substantial salary increases in the highest salary grades and only marginal adjustments at lower
salary grade levels.
83.   The proposed new salary structure, presented in Table 3, would imply salary increases
rising from 25 percent in grade 1, to 90 percent in grade 16. The resulting decompression of the
salary scale would raise the compression ratio from 6:1 to 9:1 for grades 1 through 16, and 16:1
for grades 1 through Special. In order to achieve the goals of assigning appropriate grades to
staff positions and providing the appropriate compensation needed to attract qualified employees
(and in order to pay salaries not lower than some individuals are currently receiving under special
contracts), it is proposed that the spread between the minimum and the maximum salary for each
grade should be greater at higher salary grades. In the proposed new salary structure, the spread
increases from 40 percent in grades 1 through 9, to 60 percent in grades 10 through 14, and 80
percent in grades 15 through Special. As a condition of the Credit, the Government undertook to
put into effect the new public service salary structure, in terms satisfactory to IDA, not later than
one month after project effectiveness. During negotiations it was agreed also that the new salary
structure will be implemented substantially in conformity with the model proposed in Table 3.



- 18 -
Table 3: Existing and Proposed Upgraded Public Service Salary Scales
(Monthly Salaries in GS and US$)
Minimum             Midpoint              Maximum       MDP 3/
(G$)   (US$)         (G$)   (US$)         (G$)   (US$)        (%)
Existing Salary Structure 1/
1   3,417       27       3,883       31       4,349       35         6
2   3,606       29       4,122       33       4,637       37        10
3   3,924       31       4,526       36       5,128       41        10
4   4,304       34       4,999       40       5,694       46        10
5   4,699       38       5,503       44       6,307       50        11
6   5,184       41       6,108       49       7,032       56        11
7   5,717       46       6,774       54       7,831       63        12
8   6,360       51       7,579       61       8,797       70        12
9   7,082       57       8,474       68       9,866       79        12
10   7,917       63       9,521       76      11,125       89        13
11   8,872       71      10,721       86      12,571      101        13
12   9,997       80      12,123       97      14,250      114        18
13  11,718       94      14,273      114      16,827      135        18
14  13,804      110      16,881      135      19,957      160        18
15  16,213      130      19,895      159      23,578      189        18
16  19,155      153      23,573      189      27,990      224
Special                      55,000 2/  440
Proposed Upgraded Salary Structure 4/
1   3,883       31       4,854       39       5,825       47         8
2   4,194       34       5,242       42       6,291       50         8
3   4,529       36       5,662       45       6,794       54        13
4   5,118       41       6,398       51       7,677       61        13
5   5,784       46       7,230       58       8,675       69        13
6   6,536       52       8,169       65       9,803       78        13
7   7,385       59       9,231       74      11,078       89        15
8   8,493       68      10,616       85      12,739      102        15
9   9,767       78      12,209       98      14,650      117        15
10   9,828       79      14,040      112      18,252      146        18
11  11,597       93      16,567      133      21,537      172        18
12  13,684      109      19,549      156      25,414      203        20
13  16,421      131      23,459      188      30,496      244        20
14  19,705      158      28,151      225      36,596      293        20
15  20,268      162      33,781      270      47,293      378        30
16  26,349      211      43,915      351      61,481      492        80
Special 47,428       379     79,047       632    110,666       885
1/ The salary scale to be made effective with retroactivity to 1/1/93.
2/ Unofficial estimate of average salary received by special positions.
3/ The percentage spread between the midpoint of one grade and the
next, i.e. the "height of the scale."
4/ The proposed new salary structure implies a compression ratio of
9:1 for grades 1 through 16 and 16:1 for grades 1 through Special,
and a spread between the minimum and maximum for each grade
increasing from 40% in grades 1-9 to 60% in grades 10-14 and
80% in grades 15-Special. This salary scale could be implemented
at an estimated annual project cost of US$2.5 million.



- 19 -
84.   Institutional Coverage. Reform of the public service salary structure would cover
salaries for all positions in the entire public service (the Ministries and their affiliated
Departments, the RAs, and the CAs). The SAAs have also been considered for inclusion under
the proposed project, since their employment costs are financed directly by the CG budget and
salaries in some of these agencies are closely linked with the public service salary scale. At this
time, we have chosen to focus on five of the SAAs6 because these agencies are thought to be
critical to the functioning of the public sector in the long term and do not have their own sources
of revenue with the capacity to provide comparable salary adjustments.
85.   Key and Critical Positions. Given limited financial resources, a meaningful program
will have to concentrate on obtaining qualified staff for those positions which are essential for the
efficient functioning of the public sector. These essential staffing requirements can be
characterized as "key" and "critical" positions. Within each Ministry, RA, and CAs, there are
"key positions" ranging from the level of PS to heads of divisions on which each entity depends
for strong management and coordination of its activities. "Critical positions" are those posts that
require scarce technical skills that cannot be attracted given the public service's existing salary
structure, such as engineers, accountants, economists, and medical personnel. As management
has the greatest knowledge of essential staffing requirements, these posts will be determined in
consultation with each of the individual entities. Both key and critical posts would be given
special consideration in two ways. First, all key and critical positions would be shifted to the
appropriate grades necessary to ensure that the corresponding salary is sufficient to attract and
retain qualified individuals. Substantial shifts in salary grades may be required for technical
posts, given the current low standing of these positions, as well as the relatively limited supply of
and the high demand in the private sector for qualified individuals to fill these posts. Second,
priority would be given to filling vacancies in these posts, whereas vacancies in some other posts
would be frozen.
86.   Elimination of Labor Redundancy. Given the excessive level of support and other low
level staff relative to high level personnel (over 70 percent of public service employees are in
grades 1 through 5), the long-term costs of upgrading the salary scale can be partially offset by
establishing a more efficient public service through the elimination of labor redundancy. In the
short term, not later than one month after project effectiveness, the following measures should be
taken: (i) cancellation of all existing vacancies in grades 1 through 5 and (ii) freezing or
cancellation of all new vacancies in these same grades. Additionally, other measures aimed at
eliminating labor redundancy should include: (a) assessment of the employment needs of each
Executing Agency; (b) implementation of transfers both within and across the Executing Agencies
which, in turn, will involve targeted retraining; and (c) designing of mechanisms to reduce the
size of the public sector work force, including, inter alia, incentive packages for voluntary
departure. Measures (a) and (b) would require coordinated action by PSM and PSC to conduct a
centrally led redeployment exercise.
87.   Estimated Costs. The MOF budgeted that total expenditures on wages and salaries in the
public service for 1992 will be approximately US$6.7 million. IDA's estimate of the costs of
public service wages and salaries based on records of officially filled positions and on the official
salary scale account for 83 percent of these projected disbursements, or US$5.6 million (G$695
million). See Annex H for estimates of employment costs by public entity. The gap between
6 These five agencies include: SPS, NARI, GUYWA, GUYMIDA, and the Statistical Bureau.



- 20 -
IDA's estimate and that of the MOF reflects both the importance of special employment and
salary regimes (discussed above) in overall employment costs, as well as the poor personnel
records system. The impact of special regimes on the cost of upgrading the salary structure are
mixed. On the one hand, positions that are already receiving very favorable contracts will
require no or only minimal salary increases in order to put their salaries on par with the new
salary scale, since individuals in these posts are already receiving adequate compensation. This
would imply a relatively lower cost of introducing salary upgrades. On the other hand, the
substantially higher salaries that a few selected public servants receive under special contracts
indicate that the salaries and benefits that must be offered in order to attract qualified personnel
are substantial. Salaries for selected positions may need to be raised by 3-4 times the existing
formal salary in order to attract individuals with the necessary qualifications.
88.   Estimates of the costs of introducing a valuable upgrade in the public service salary scale
were, therefore, determined based on records of officially filled positions, the formal salary scale
and "educated guesses" regarding the scope of special regimes. These estimates are presented in
Table 4. The estimated current costs of "special contracts," "acting up" compensations and
"acting" positions would raise the estimated current cost of wages and salaries in the public
service from US$5.56 to US$6.56 million, leaving residual unexplained employment costs of
only US$0.13 million. This residual includes the costs of temporary staff and other staff not
included in our figures on public service employment in the formal grading system. Overall
employment costs under the upgraded salary regime based on the proposed salary scale, currently
filled positions and the proposed filling of 40 percent of vacancies in grades 6-9, 60 percent in
grades 10-14, and 100 percent in grades 15-Special are given in Column 2. As all public
servants would be included under the official upgraded salary scale, the costs of special regimes
are assumed to be zero. Given the above assumptions, it is estimated that the desired upgrading
of the salary scale could be achieved at an annual cost of US$2.5 million.
Public Sector Management Strengthening
Integrated Financial Management
89.   Major Problems and the Need for Institutional Reforms. A set of fundamental
problems plague public sector financial management in Guyana. First, key management
functions are inappropriate: budgeting does not correspond with an integrated program and is
only done on the basis of previous expenditures; accounting has been neglected, and the
Accountant General's Department is principally involved in dealing with cash management; and
treasury decisions are based on neither a cash flow program nor on portfolio options. Second,
the present accounting system has remained virtually unchanged since the attainment of
Independence, in spite of tremendous changes in accounting practices and principles over the past
30 years. The existing accounting system broke down in 1981 and since then no official financial
statements of the public sector have been produced. In fact, actual recording of accounts is not
currently taking place. At the entity level in all of the CG, there has been a corresponding
deterioration in financial management and related records-keeping. The principal accounting
records--the Votes Ledger--has not been properly maintained at any level and supervisory checks
and internal controls are often nonexistent. Current efforts to reform and reestablish the system,
however, imply a high recentralization with all bookkeeping to be done by the Accountant
General's Department within the MOF. Third, the audit of accounts is not possible and,



-21-
Table 4: Costs of Reforming the Public Service Salary and Employment Structure 1/
(US$ Millions)
Current     Upgraded      Costs of
Costs       Costs 7/   Upgrading 8/
Costs of Salaries Paid by
Ministries/Departments                         3.97 2/       7.13           3.16
Regional Administrations                       1.37 2/       1.96           0.59
Constitutional Agencies                        0.22 2/       0.53           0.31
Subtotal                                      5.56          9.62           4.06
Costs of Employment and Salary Regimes
Outside the Formal Grading System
Special Contracts 3/                           0.42          0.00         -0.42
Acting Up 4/                                   0.31          0.00         -0.31
Acting 5/                                      0.15          0.00          -0.15
Market Supplements 6/                          0.12          0.00         -0.12
Subtotal                                      1.00          0.00         -1.00
Residual Employment Costs                       0.13          0.13           0.00
Total                                        6.69          9.75            3.1
Financed through IDB requirement 9/                                         0.573
Financed through IDA Project                                                  2.5
Source: Government of Guyana and IDA estimates.
1/ Salaries are assumed to be at the midpoint of the range for each salary grade.
2/ Based on existing vacancy rates and the formal salary scale.
3/ The costs of 42 'special contracts" in excess of the costs of these positions if they were
on the official salary scale.
4/ An educated guess of the cost of 'acting up" assuming that 50% of personnel in grades
4-9 and 35% of personnel in grades 10-14 are acting up in positions 2 levels higher
than their own position and therefore are receiving comparably higher salaries.
5/ 'Acting" personnel hired to fill positions that have not yet been approved by PSM are
assumed to increase the wage bill for positions in grades 8- 16 by 10%.
6/ 369 public servants generally receive "market supplements" of 50% of their official salary
for grades 14-Special and 30% for grades below 14.
7/ Based on the proposed new salary scale and the filling of 40% of vacancies in grades
6-9, 60% in grades 10-14 and 100% in grades 15-Special.
8/ The net increase in total salaries paid to the public service.
9/ A condition of the IDB program to aid "at risk populations" requires that all public
servants earning less than US$60 per month receive an additional $5 per month. As this
salary increase must be paid in any case, this measure will offset part of the costs of
upgrading salaries in grades 1 -6, which currently pay less than US$60 per month.



- 22 -
therefore, external control is ineffective. While the (outdated) Financial Administration and
Audit Act requires that financial statements relating to Public Accounts be submitted to the
Auditor General within four months of the close of the fiscal year, these statements are not in
fact submitted. Special reports of the Auditor General to Parliament for the years 1982/85 show
that large portions of expenditures of Ministries and RAs could not be accounted for by the
presentation of supporting documentation. For the period since 1985, no statements of
transactions and balances have been produced for audit purposes. In October 1991, a Special
Report of the Auditor General noted that the Auditor General was unable still to issue the
required official Annual Report for 1985. Fourth, in the absence of financial statements for audit
examination, Parliament and the public in general have no means to monitor funds appropriated
and their use. Fifth, in addition to the problem of unpresented payment vouchers, there is a
serious problem of overdrafts on bank accounts of Ministries, Departments, and RAs.
Expenditures have occurred in excess of amounts either released or authorized. Finally,
legislative oversight of the external audit function is in disarray as the Public Accounts
Committee of the National Assembly has not functioned adequately in recent years. The
implications of this breakdown of financial management systems in Guyana are profound. Not
only is there an extreme lack of fundamental modern financial management policies and
procedures, but also even the basic balancing of accounts does not occur. In addition, the
management of revenues lacks a system to enforce timely compliance and monitor tax and
customs administration. A significant overhaul of all aspects of financial management must be a
priority for any future program of public sector reform.
90.   In building a modern public financial management system, a longer-term process of
institutional reform and development is required that links three basic levels in an integrated
fashion:
e  At the normative level, reform should focus on financial management authority and the
legal framework for that authority. Clear lines of authority and responsibility for the
management of accounting, treasury, budget, debt management, and internal and external
control functions must be made, and appropriate legal instruments introduced to assure
those responsibilities. Currently, these lines of authority and responsibility are not clear,
and the Financial Administration and Audit Act does not contain all the required legal
provisions for modern financial management practices to be established;
*  At the institutional level, there is a need to assure that the institutional framework is
consistent with the lines of authority and accountability prescribed in the legal framework.
Presently, for example, there is extreme centralization of financial management functional
responsibilities (especially accounting and treasury) within the MOF while execution
occurs at other levels. There are now efforts to strengthen those responsibilities at the
center. While centralization of some activities may be appropriate, a modern financial
management system should demarcate clear lines of decentralized institutional
responsibilities in financial management. In fact, efforts to recentralize require ex ante
the building of minimum capacity in all agencies at the decentralized level. Efforts to
strengthen that level, therefore, are more appropriate;
*  There is also a corresponding need to focus on the operational requirements to carry out
public finance activities. Symmetry in financial management requires that operational
discretion correspond both to authority and accountability. Current practice provides
discretionary power to line Ministries and RAs for expending, but the absence of adequate
accounting procedures and of accountability at that level leaves the system without



- 23 -
control. Further, there is little capacity at the level at which routine public financial
management activities should occur. In particular, the basic apparatus for routine
financial accountability is weak at the level of Ministries and Departments, RAs, and
CAs.
91.   This suggests the need to strengthen the entire system of financial management with initial
efforts aimed at ensuring adequate decentralized accounting systems as the basis for public
accountability.
92.   Proposed Assistance. Recognition of the need to strengthen the financial management
system is evident in Guyana. Recently, for example, a Technical Assistance Project was
approved, financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and executed by UNDP, for
strengthening expenditure and revenue management. However, there is a need to place these
efforts in a broader integrated framework with appropriate sequencing of actions. The proposed
Public Administration Project is intended to complement and to reinforce those efforts in a
broader framework of integrated financial management. This assistance should focus particular
attention on the reestablishment of the accounting system. The principle guiding the new system
should be that actual responsibility for the handling of financial resources by the various public
entities is directly linked to accountability for the preparation of sound accounting records.
Under this principle a decentralized approach has to be adopted. As part of the initial efforts,
assistance should be provided to establish systems to manage and control revenue collections.
93.   In addition, there is a need to strengthen control, external to the MOF, of the basic
financial management system. According to Section 26 of the Financial Administration and Audit
Act, the Auditor General is required to examine and certify the accounts of all persons entrusted
with receipt of public monies within four months of the close of the fiscal year, and to report to
the National Assembly not later than September 30 after the close of the fiscal year. In the
absence of receipt of said reports from the appropriate bodies, no official Annual Report has been
possible. In addition, the need to strengthen the internal capacity of the Auditor General is
necessary. Finally, the legislative oversight of public financial accounts is further hampered by
the apparent dormancy of the authorized legislative committee--the Public Accounts Committee.
For the external auditing function to be performed, each of these links and bodies needs to be
strengthened.
94.   The Integrated Financial Management component would support the design and
implementation of the norms, procedures, and systems required for effective and efficient
budgeting, accounting, cash management, debt management, internal and external control. The
core of the new institutional arrangement would be an integrated, decentralized budgeting and
accounting system, coordinated by the MOF. Accordingly, this component of the project would
finance consultant services, software, computer equipment, and training. These goods and
services would be provided to the key financial management entities including the Secretary to
the Treasury, the Office of the Budget, and the Accountant General's Department in the MOF, as
well as the Office of the Auditor General. Goods and services also would be provided to
accounting centers or subtreasuries in the 11 Ministries, 10 RAs, the Guyana Defense Force, and
the Guyana National Service. The CAs and SAAs are to be treated as two groups, each with a
single accounting center.
95.   Another important part of this component is the planned strengthening of the revenue and
customs collection systems. Total tax revenues are estimated at about US$95 million for 1992.
Of these the Inland Revenue Department collected 35 % (three quarters of this from corporate



- 24 -
incorme taxes and the remaining from personal income taxes); the Customs and Excise
Department collected about 50% (two-thirds of which was consumption taxes and excises and the
remaining in customs duties) and levies on sugar and rice accounted for the remaining 15% (95%
sugar, 5% rice). There is considerable scope to increase tax revenues by increasing
administrative efficiency. The project will therefore finance the modernization and
computerization of all six inland revenue offices (including particularly the office for corporate
taxpayers) as well as the main customs and excise office in Georgetown. Management systems
will also be enhanced and training will be provided. Initial activities relating to this part of the
Integrated Financial Management component are funded by the PPF.
Regional Administrations System
96.    Major Problems and the Need for Institutional Reforms. As the crucial link in the
delivery of social services and the operation and maintenance of infrastructure in Guyana, the
effective functioning of RAs is critical to the success of the present ERP. However, under the
present institutional arrangements, the RAs are unable to provide such services with efficiency
and accountability. Due to the systemic weakness inherent in the present arrangements, the CG
presently has virtually no downstream control either over the implementation of sectoral policies
or even in monitoring whether the resources transferred to the regions are spent in compliance
with the budget appropriations. It is, thus, imperative for the present project to review the
factors that impede the effective functioning of the current arrangements, identifying the means of
strengthening the system and support their implementation, for at least three reasons.
97.   Firstly, as the role of the State in Guyana evolves and the Government progressively
withdraws from the productive sectors, its role in providing basic social services and
infrastructure for private sector development will have to assume greater strategic importance.
These are precisely the two sectors in which the RAs are presently assigned crucial service
delivery roles.
98.    Secondly, if the Government is to sustain a more vigorous program of revenue collection
and cost recovery to finance and support its ERP, the presently ineffective system of monitoring
of the services provided will have to be revamped and strengthened.
99.    Finally, future sectoral interventions by the donor community or the Government in
strengthening services in the social or the infrastructure sectors will also be impeded by the
institutional and systemic weaknesses of the present system. Some donors are recommending
project interventions through Ministries, bypassing the RAs. While this may enhance the
imrnediate effectiveness of the project at hand, it is an ad hoc measure that complicates existing
operational relationships, duplicates human and physical infrastructure in the regions and leads to
an irefficient utilization of Guyana's scarce human capital. To avoid the proliferation of such
arrangements, the present project includes a comprehensive review of the division of
responsibilities between the Ministries and the RAs followed by appropriate changes in the
institutional structures and operational procedures that take account of the results of the review.
100.  Proposed Assistance. The proposed assistance would be provided in two stages. The
first stage, funded by the PPF, comprises an analytical review of the present functions of the
RAs, the operational systems in place for the planning, execution and monitoring of programs
and their integration into the central systems, the delegated authorities, adequacy of resources and
the lines of accountability for efficient and effective service delivery.



-25 -
101.   The second stage would assist the GOG in articulating a vision of the role of the RAs in
relation to the Ministries and would design and implement the required institutional reforms and
operationalize the new systems to support the envisioned role. The personnel and financial
management implications of the systems recommended would also be coordinated with the
Government-wide redesign of these systems as part of the present project.
102.   This component of the project will accordingly finance consultants to review the
organizational and administrative aspects of the service delivery functions and to establish norms,
procedures and information systems using modern management principles. This review would be
undertaken both for the general administration of the regions and their sectoral responsibilities--
operation and maintenance of roads, river and sea defenses, irrigation and water facilities in the
infrastructure and agriculture sectors, and the operation of health and education services in the
social sectors. This component of the project will also finance consultants and training for the
implementation of the new systems, as well as communications, transport, and computer
equipment to support a modern information system.
Personnel Management
103.   Major Problems and the Need for Institutional Reforms. The current personnel
system operates as an administrative activity, often imposing administrative complexity rather
than serving as a management function. Even as an administrative service, PSM lacks a system
for maintaining accurate and updated information on approved posts, budgeted positions, number
of employees, and salaries in the public service. The existing job evaluation scheme was put in
place more than 20 years ago. It is cumbersome and complex, and a proliferation of job titles
has resulted in more than 1300 titles, many of which do not reflect the true nature of positions
nor provide for comparability across entities. As a result, public officers responsible for
personnel management at different levels are not held accountable. Staff are also unaware of the
true definition of their functions, and many routine internal systems and procedures are in
disarray. Under these constraints, the fundamental aspects of personnel policy and
administration, including the design of the public service salary scale and recruitment strategy,
can not be adequately managed. In the longer term, there is also need to develop a more
effective, comprehensive, personnel policy and management system with appropriate divisions of
responsibility between executive responsibilities for management of the personnel function and
administrative responsibilities for maintaining consistent standards for recruitment, promotion,
incentives, discipline, and removal from office. In addition, the current system is highly
centralized with operational responsibilities at the center and line personnel responsibilities
weakly administered. The development of a restructured public service requires careful attention
to the personnel function as part of the shaping of a new management culture.
104.   A transparent, consistent, and equitable personnel system requires procedures for
recruitment and for promotion, as well as standardized linkages between position and pay and
employment characteristics. Two distinct bodies exercise somewhat ambiguous authority over the
personnel function in Guyana. In theory, the PSM has executive responsibility for the
management and development of the personnel function in the public service. In practice,
authority to conduct these activities is not quite so clear, nor is there a clear legal mandate to
perform these functions. In contrast, the PSC, created in 1953, has constitutional authority
(Articles 134-137, 200-201, and 226) for the maintenance of standards and impartiality in the
recruitment, promotion, removal, and discipline of public service personnel. In the absence of
clear procedures for the accomplishment of these tasks, however, PSC cannot carry out its



- 26 -
mandate. Further, the determination of the appropriate level at which recruitment and promotion
decisions ought to be made is not clear (e.g., delegation of these decisions to the agency level).
105.   In the past several years, some initiatives for the creation of the institutional and
procedural infrastructure to accomplish these tasks have been undertaken. However, a
comprehensive approach and consistent implementation have been lacking . What is required to
achieve transparency, consistency, and equity is the implementation of formal recruitment and
promotion procedures, as well as a transparent incentives system. To achieve this, procedures
for accomplishing the following tasks are required:
* Establishment of the authority (of agencies, ministries, etc.) to recruit;
* Standardization of recruitment qualifications for positions based upon prior criteria for
position evaluation and weighing of relevant factors;
* Appropriate communication of vacancies for competitive applications;
* Procedures for evaluation of candidates (interview, testing criteria, valuation of
experience, references, etc.);
* Confirmation of appointments and communication of results of recruitment;
* Procedures for monitoring recruitment process and appeals.
3 Development of a transparent system to evaluate performance and allocate incentives.
106.   The current efforts of the PSC to prepare a comprehensive recruitment manual go far in
the accomplishment of this task and should be finalized during the process of establishing a
revised salary scale, job evaluation system, and the initial records keeping system.
107.   Similar procedural consistency and transparency must accompany the process of
performance evaluations for pay and promotion. Again, current efforts within PSM and PSC to
revise the job evaluation system are an appropriate beginning point, and should be extended to
include a systematic review for all public service positions. A system for the weighing of factors
for the assignment of positions to levels is a key element in the establishment of a salary
administration system. Such factors as those currently being considered (e.g., education and
experience, relative decision-making responsibility, level of required resource management, span
of control and authority, and working conditions, etc.) are appropriate when used in an impartial
and unambiguous fashion.
108.   Proposed Assistance. Reform of the personnel management system requires action in
the short term, as well as over the longer term. The Personnel Management component would
comprise two stages. In order for a consistent, transparent, and equitable personnel system to be
effective there is a need for adequate records and flows of information. Personnel information
records provide the basic data on the workforce that is required for many functions of
management. The first stage, funded by the IDA Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) and by the
PPF, finances the design and establishment of a basic personnel records system. The objective of
proposed assistance under Phase 1 is to assist in the continued development of a devolved
computer-based personnel records system that will provide access to information on individual
staff in each Ministry, RA, and CAs and aggregate information on staff for overall management
purposes within Ministries, PSM in the Office of the President, and the PSC. This flrst phase of
the development of the personnel management system requires continued attention in order that
progress at the time of effectiveness of this project is adequate. In addition, this first phase of
assistance will lead to the establishment of a new job classification system with transparent
procedures for recruitment, evaluation, and monitoring of personnel to flll positions.



- 27 -
109.   While the records keeping and job classification systems included under Phase 1 of this
assistance are critical prerequisites for effective personnel management, in the longer-term there
is also need to develop a more effective, comprehensive, personnel policy, and management
system. The second stage of proposed assistance would support the consolidation of a modern
personnel management system including recruitment, employment and salary administration, and
a comprehensive public service policy and a performance evaluation system. The system would
link and define personnel policy responsibilities at the center, and personnel operational
responsibilities in the line personnel units within the Ministries/RAs/CAs. In addition, the
system would link appropriately the roles of PSM, PSC, line personnel offices in Ministries,
RAs, and CAs. This component of the project would finance computer equipment and software,
and consultant services which also would provide in-house training to PSM in the Office of the
President, to personnel in the PSC, as well as to personnel offices in the Ministries and affiliated
Departments, RAs, and CAs.
General Administration
110.   Major Problems. Basic administrative, computer, communications, and transportation
equipment are in deplorable condition or are insufficient to permit adequate management of the
fundamental functions in the Ministries and the RAs. Furthermore, the actual provision of basic
public services, including health, education, and infrastructural services, is hampered because the
responsible agencies frequently do not have the material resources needed to operate (e.g.,
distribution of educational and health materials is substantially delayed as a result of lack or
insufficient transportation equipment to cover all educational and health centers).
111.   Given the fiscal constraints that the Government will face during the next few years,
replacement and acquisitions of additional equipment will not be feasible only on the basis of
domestic public resources. Fiscal conditions would become particularly strained, since the
Government is to participate in the financing of the proposed new public service salary structure.
112.   Proposed Assistance. The General Administration component would finance
administrative, computer, communications, and transportation equipment which are essential for
managing operations in selected Ministries and RAs. Most of the equipment is to be assigned to
the entities responsible for the provision of public services, including: the Ministries of Public
Works, Communications and Regional Development; Agriculture; Education; and Health, as well
as all Regional Administrations. A detailed list of equipment to be financed under this
component is given in Annex I. To monitor the adequate implementation of this component, the
annual independent audits will include a physical audit to ensure that equipment items to be
financed under this component actually are with the intended users.
Recruitment Program
113.   Background. Since the years prior to independence and particularly with the recent
erosion of real incomes, the emigration of professionals and skilled workers from Guyana has
resulted in a serious depletion of the work force. For a country with a population of only about
750,000, the loss of thousands each year to emigration poses a problem with far-reaching
consequences. The Statistical Bureau reported that each year about 50,000 Guyanese left the
country during 1989-91, and about 11,000 of these were on a permanent basis. Females and
males are approximately equally represented in these figures. The countries of destination tend to
be the United States (48 percent), Canada (35 percent), the United Kingdom (16 percent), and
more recently the Caribbean countries. About 30 percent of these emigrants are professional or



- 28 -
technical workers, 35 percent are administrative/clerical, and 35 percent are other skilled
workers. Furthermore, records of the Office of the President, PSM, which administers overseas
educational and vocational training programs, show that up to a third of scholarship recipients
employed in the public sector do not return to Guyana after training is completed.
114.   Proposed Assistance. The objective of the proposed recruitment program would be to
attract qualified Guyanese and possibly other nationals to fill selected key positions in public
sector institutions, with the aim of strengthening the managerial and technical capacity in key
areas of the public service as a necessary step toward ensuring basic services and implementation
of the ERP. The recruitment strategy will focus on attracting qualified Guyanese applications to
compete for about 50 positions from GS levels 15, 16 and including the "Special" category. As
the number of positions that can be staffed under this component is substantially smaller than the
total number of positions that could be considered for staffing under this program, special
attention would be given to the strict application of the selection criteria whereby "key" posts will
be given priority -- see Attachment VII(b). A list in order of priority of posts that need urgent
attention such as key managerial and technical positions that require skills which are currently
scarce but necessary for the effective functioning of the entity will be submitted by the PS or
other head of each of the Ministries and selected CAs and SAAs. Selection from among these
budgeted posts would be done by the project team in consultation with PSM, the MOF, and the
subject ministry or entity concerned.
115.   The target group of this recruitment effort would be professionally qualified Guyanese
men and women with suitable education and experience, residing in Guyana or abroad. The
PSC, with the support of PSM, and in coordination with the entity concerned, will issue the
specific qualifications and experience requirements for each vacancy announcement. A Steering
Committee comprising PSM, DIEC, PSC and the Ministry or Department involved would be
responsible for administering suitable procedures and standards for candidate screening,
interviewing and selection. Candidates to be invited for interview would be local or expatriates
who have been screened on qualifications and willingness to serve in the agency concerned and
who agree to the general terms and conditions of the incentive program.
116.   The Department of International Economic Cooperation (DIEC) under the MOF would
be the agency responsible for the start-up activities: the promotion, advertising, and data
processing. Its institutional infrastructure already in place includes access to networks of
Guyanese abroad through regular contact with the Foreign Affairs Ministry's missions in foreign
capitals, as well as through universities, professional and social groups abroad. Provided
additional resources DIEC would design systems to overcome previously identified obstacles and
to improve the overall program. The DIEC would submit a plan to enhance the management
efficiency of the program, increase its effectiveness and impact, and to expand and diversify the
program, including more focused gender-targeting. The project would support the purchase of a
computer, a copier, a fax machine and the hiring of a consultant and support staff. Following
promotion and advertising activities, the responsibilities of the support unit in DIEC would be
to; (a) provide computerized data and compile, update and expand the roster of applicants and
consultants; (b) determine the initial matching of the supply of expertise with institutional
demands; (c) obtain lists of names and addresses of qualified Guyanese from professional
associations within and outside of Guyana; and (d) maintain an updated file of job descriptions of
vacancies from the public sector agencies.



- 29 -
117.   Promotion and advertising activities would utilize various means to reach local and
expatriate Guyanese, such as questionnaires, brochures, media, and newsletters. The findings
would be used where possible to make design improvements in the recruitment program,
including the incentive package. The output of the initial promotion activity would be: (a) a
program-specific brochure describing the benefits and long-term career potential in the public
service and the incentive package; and (b) a newsletter to be distributed to Guyanese cultural
groups, professional associations, and embassies abroad. To help establish the required
managerial and promotional capacity for implementation of the Recruitment Program, the PPF
also comprises financing of these initial activities.
118.   An incentive package would be provided to selected Guyanese nationals living abroad
who have agreed to the terms and conditions of employment in the public service of Guyana.
Items to be included in the package are: (a) one-way airline tickets for the beneficiary and
his/her immediate family (spouse and children); (b) a lump sum relocation allowance of
US$10,000, paid at the start of the first year of service; (c) the cost of shipment of household
and personal goods not to exceed 6,000 kg. (5,000 kg. in the case of staff with no children); and
(d) a lump-sum grant of US$15,000 at the end of a minimum tenure (three years) of continuous
service. To qualify as recipient of potential benefits described in the incentive package the
individual is required to meet the following criteria: (a) minimum of two consecutive years
residence outside Guyana; (b) the individual selected must disclose whether he or she is a
beneficiary of any other resettlement program; in the event an individual is covered under another
resettlement plan with provisions for travel and shipment, he/she would not qualify for the first
three provisions of the incentive package. The lump sum benefits and allowances are to be
exempt from any levy or taxation; the contents of the personal effects included in the relocation
shipment are to be exempt from duty.
119.   Overall administration of this program comprises evaluation and selection of potential
beneficiaries, advertising, and management and monitoring, including an annual internal audit of
the program. Design of the program reflects particular emphasis on transparency, objectivity of
decision-making and accountability. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the National
Director will periodically review the progress made and targets reached by the unit within DIEC
based on established monitorable indicators. The DIEC will submit a progress report to the PCU
every quarter during the project cycle on key issues, targets reached and recommendations for the
ongoing implementation of the recruitment component. The PSC in accordance with its
constitutional role will issue the recruitment guidelines for the transparent and merit-based
procedure and criteria for evaluation. The administration and management of the incentive
package will be the responsibility of the PCU with oversight functions by PSC. The basic
procedures for appointment under the recruitment program are presented in Attachment VII (c).
The Project Coordinating Unit and the Preparation of an In-depth Program for Public
Sector Reform
120.   There would be a PCU which would have the responsibility for monitoring progress
under the project and for providing support to the Executing Agencies. The PCU would have to
support and monitor implementation of the three parts of the project including: (a) the
establishment of a new public service salary structure; (b) the four public sector management
strengthening components; and (c) the advertising, selection process, and overall management of
the recruitment program. The PCU will prepare and furnish to IDA for its approval the annual
work programs by not later than September 1 of each year, starting in 1994. The PCU will also



- 30 -
be responsible for the preparation of semi-annual progress reports, to be presented to the
Government and IDA, for the purpose of providing a complete information basis for project
supervisions. Particularly important will be its role in supporting the mid-term evaluation of this
project, and the preparation of the annual internal audits of the application of the agreed salary
structure and implementation of the recruitment program.
121.   The PCU also would support the Government in preparing a longer term program for
public sector reform. Major areas that are expected to be addressed under this program include:
(a) an in-depth administrative reform, including a functional review, organizational change, and
resource rationalization; (b) continued reform of key public sector management systems; (c)
deregulation; (d) privatization/externalization of public sector activities; and (e) decentralization
of decision-making and operational activities.
122.   The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator, who also could act as a Deputy
National Director, and would be provided with a budget for short-term consultants to help carry
out the unit's responsibilities. The PCU would report to the National Director of the Project.
Applying Lessons from Bank Experience
123.   Bank experience with salary supplementation is mixed. On the one hand, financing
salary supplements under special arrangements has been problematic because dual salary
structures tend to foster wage distortions, resentment, and disruptions within the public service.
Furthermore, these arrangements are sources for lack of transparency and openness in public
service administration. Finally, such financing does not solve the problem of motivating public
servants, which can only be tackled through in-depth reform. On the other hand, extensive
public service reform cannot be achieved rapidly. Therefore, it has often been recognized as
impractical to rule out some sort of special treatment in all cases. In certain cases, enhanced
salaries must be provided to attract, or retain, higher caliber staff and to generate enhanced
success and commitment when (a) national staff are asked to perform special assignments at a
productivity level that equals or exceeds that in the private sector, and (b) the disparity between
private and public salaries is large. Recruitment programs, however, have often benefitted
individuals rather than the institutions concerned, mainly due to a lack of transparency and
objectivity in recruitment.
124.   Based on this experience and on the particular conditions in Guyana's public service, the
project supports a "two-pronged" approach. First, the proposed reforms to the public service
employment practices and salary scale would introduce structural changes that would enable
public servants at all levels to be adequately and transparently compensated within the formal
grading system. These reforms would be reinforced with the creation of conditions for
accountability in financial and personnel management, as well as in fundamental operational
programs. Second, the proposed recruitment program would fill about 50 senior level positions
whose skills are critical to the functioning of the public service, and which have remained
unfilled because of lack of qualified Guyanese available in Guyana. To ensure that the
recruitment program will only recruit individuals whose skills match those identified by the
program, its design reflects particular emphasis on transparency, objectivity of decision-making,
and accountability.



- 31 -
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
125.   The total estimated cost of financing the proposed Guyana Public Administration Project
would be US$22 million. IDA would directly finance the public sector management
strengthening components, the recruitment program and the PCU for a total estimated cost of
US$12 million. The cost of upgrading the salary structure for four years is estimated at US$10
million. GOG has undertaken to finance this component out of its fiscal budget, in part with
counterpart funds generated from balance of payment assistance made available by donors. The
availability of these resources has been confirmed by IDA. The IMF has also confirmed that the
GOG undertaking is consistent with the fiscal targets agreed in the ongoing economic program.
IDA would support the upgrading of the salary structure by financing expenditures for general
administration strengthening--which otherwise would have to be financed out of public domestic
resources. The summary of Project Costs (Table 5.1) and the Financing Plan (Table 5.2) follow.
Total financing by project component and expenditure category is given in Annex J.
D. COST EFFECTIVENESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
126.   At the present public service salary levels, the Government cannot attract or retain the
managers and skilled technicians necessary to ensure operation of basic services, much less plan
and execute the investment program required to rehabilitate infrastructural facilities. Absent an
immediate improvement in compensation, public services will continue to deteriorate and there is
a risk that the adjustment program will fail. The proposed Public Administration Project would
directly support all IDA-financed operations in Guyana (and projects by donors and other
international financial institutions) because preparation activities and project implementation, as
well as related resource mobilization, are hampered by the dearth of managerial capacity and
technical skills in most areas of the public service. More broadly, the project would provide
essential support for growth, as the weak institutional capacity of the public sector is the principal
constraint to consolidated economic recovery in Guyana. In the existing context, the assistance to
be provided by the proposed project has been identified as a critical contribution towards
ensuring continued satisfactory implementation of adjustment and accelerated economic growth.
127.   From the point of view of the public sector, the project would substantially increase its
internal efficiency by improving the overall quality of management and helping in the
modernization of key public sector systems. The proposed assistance and institutional reforms in
the areas of financial management, personnel management, and the RAs would also result in
increased revenue collections and effective means for accountability and, therefore, greater public
sector efficiency and sustainability of project outcomes.
128.   The Government is expected to be able to sustain the financing of the upgraded salary
structure at the end of the project period. The total cost of public service salaries represents less
than 25 percent of current public expenditures (net of debt-service payments) for 1992, and the
increased cost of upgrading the public service salary structure would represent only 5 percent of
1992 current expenditures. In addition, during the four years of project implementation, the
cancellation of new vacancies in the lower five levels of the salary scale should result in a
reduction of at least 20 percent of those positions, with implied annual fiscal savings of at least
US$1.2 million (or 40 percent of increased cost of upgrading) in the final year. Finally,
increased public revenues and rationalization of public expenditures that are expected to result



- 32 -
Table 5.1: Summary of Project Costs
Local       Forei2n      Total      % of Base
-------------(US$ millions)-------------
1.    Upgrading of the Salary Structure "'     10.0                       10.0          45.4
I.    Public Sector Management Strengthening
A. Integrated Financial Management       0.8          3.2           4.0          18.2
B. Regional Administrations System       0.3          0.7           1.0           4.5
C. Personnel Management                  0.1          0.4           0.5           2.3
D. General Administration                1.0          3.0           4.0          18.2
Ill.   Recruitment Program                     1.3           0.5           1.8           8.2
lV.   Coordinating Unit                        0.3           0.4           0.7           3.2
Project Total                         13.8          8.2          22.0         100.0
of which PPF                         0.2          0.7           0.9
1/ An average of US$2.5 million per annum over a 4 year period.
Table 5.2: Financing Plan
Total   IDA   Gov.    % IDA    % Gov.
---------------(US$ millions)--------------
Goods                              6.1     6.1               100
Consultants                        4.2     4.2               100
Travel, Shipping, Reloc. Grants    1.7     1.7               100
Upgrading of the Salary Structure  10.0           10.0                 100
Project Total                     22.0    12.0   10.0        55        45
1. Upgrading of the Salary Structure 10.0       10.0                  100
If. Public Sector Management
Strengthening               9.5     9.5               100
Ill. Recruitment Program           1.8     1.8               100
IV. Coordinating Unit             0.7     0.7                100
Project Total               22.0    12.0   10.0         55        45



- 33 -
from improved quality of the public service and public sector management strengthening should
easily pay for the remaining costs of sustaining the upgraded salary structure.
E. PROJECT RISKS
129.   The project faces two risks: First, the payment of higher salaries may engender
resentment among public employees not particularly favored by the new salary structure. This
risk would be minimized by implementing a well-designed salary structure that clearly associates
higher salaries with higher specialized skills and/or management responsibilities. Some form of
information campaign may also be necessary to ensure the acceptability of the program. Second,
there is a risk that the program could increase the politicization of the public service. As
significantly higher salaries would be paid only to those positions requiring technical
qualifications, and greater responsibility, it is expected that many incumbents will fail to qualify.
Implementation of the program would, thus, imply potential political pressures. This risk is
increased by the ethnic polarization of Guyanese society and the possibility that the Government
could allow political considerations to influence unduly the implementation of the program. To
minimize this risk, the use of IDA's funds under this project will be conditioned to neutral
application of a sound salary structure.
III. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
130.   The Borrower will be the Republic of Guyana. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
PSM in the Office of the President (PSM/OP) will be the main Executing Agencies. The
National Director who will be appointed by an agreement of both Ministers involved will be a
senior public servant and will head the PCU and be responsible for overall project
implementation. A full-time Deputy Director will be assigned to the National Director with
powers to hire consultants and request disbursements from IDA. The functions of the PCU
would be to: (i) manage IDA financing and provide administrative support to the Government;
(ii) keep close contact with the Counterpart Institutions for all parts (three) of the project and
Coordinators of the four Public Sector Management strengthening components and the
Recruitment Program and provide technical support as required; and (iii) monitor compliance
with IDA's legal agreement.
131.   The parts and components of the proposed project would be carried out with:
(a) PSM/OP for the upgrading of the public service salary structure and the Personnel
Management component; (b) MOF for the Integrated Financial Management component--
involving the Secretariat to the Treasury, the Accountant General's Department, the Office of the
Budget, the Office of the Auditor General and the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise
Departments; (c) PSM/OP and the MOF, MPWCRD, MOA, MECD, and MOH for the RAs
System component; (d) the SPS and the MOF for the General Administration component; and (e)
the DIEC at the MOF, PSM and PSC for the Recruitment Program.



- 34 -
B. PROCUREMENT
132.   The goods and services to be financed under the project, summarized in Table 6, would
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' published by the Bank in
May 1992. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or more each.
133.   Specifically, the following will be applied for the procurement of goods under the
project:
(a) Limited International Competitive Bidding (LIB) among manufacturers with established
services facilities in Guyana would apply to the procurement of transport equipment
comprising: about 43 four-wheel drive vehicles (US$700,000), 11 cars (US$190,000),
15 motorcycles (US$60,000), and 40 outboard engines (US$325,000); and to the
acquisition of radiocommunication equipment estimated to cost US$61,000 (Annex I).
(b) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for the procurement of telephone
equipment, cables and materials (about US$1 million in total); and package of office
equipment and furniture items estimated to cost US$30,000 or more each. Computer
equipment and software (including installation, commissioning and maintenance services),
estimated to cost US$1.8 million, to the extent possible would be procured in a single
package through a 2-step ICB procedure, based on performance specification.
(c) Contract for minor office equipment and furnishings, and other equipment, estimated to
cost less than US$30,000 each, but not exceeding US$500,000 in aggregate, would be
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
eligible suppliers.
134.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to IDA. About 6 or 7 contracts with international/local consulting firms and
about 30 contracts for individual consultancies are planned under the project. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
135.   The use of standard bidding documents based on Bank's sample documents would be
required for the procurement of goods under ICB. Procurement documentation concerning goods
contracts to be awarded through ICB and LIB and the selection of consultants would be subject to
prior review by IDA. Contracts for goods valued at less than US$30,000 would be subject to
selective ex-post review by IDA during supervision. The proposed prior review thresholds would
provide a coverage of about 90 percent of goods contracts and of 100 percent for consultant
contracts financed under the Project. The $1.7 million allocated to recruitment expenses and
grants (see para. 118), will be procured based on standard prices and allowances.



- 35 -
Table 6: Procurement Armngements
(US$'000)
Procurenent Method
Project Element                ICB A/    Other             N/A           Total Costs
1.  Consultant Services and
Training                                  4,200h1                                4,200
(4,200)                               (4,200)
2.  Goods                            3,600     2,500G/                                6,100
(3,600)   (2,500)                               (6,100)
3.  Recruitment (travel and shipping
expenses and travel allowances)                              1,700               1,700
(1,700)             (1,700)
4.  Incremental Costs of the Salary
Structure                                                   10,000              10,000
Total                           3,600      6,700            11,700              22,000
(3,600)   (6,700)           (1,700)            (12,000)
Note: Figu  in puideem am die fcunomh1d by tDA.
a/ 1Inatonal compatitive bidding (lC) if e_daSud contrAct v,aie i for dte quivai of US$30,000 or mon.
l Include contrcting of co_mltnb i wcond_ce wih WorU B*k Group Guinelie.
e/ LIB for US$2.0 milon ad local/interatioua. .bonp. for USS0.3 miion.
VDA Disbursements
(US$'OOO)
Category                     Amount                      Percentage
1.  Consultant Services and Training           4,200            100% net of taxes
2.  Goods                                      6,100            100% foreign expenditures and 85%
ex-factory local expenditures.
3.  Recruitment Costs                           1,700           100%
Total                                     12,000
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$'OOO)
FY93        FY94        FY95       FY9C        FY97-98
Annual                 900         3,100       3,500      2,000        2,500
Cummulative            900         4,000       7,500      9,500       12,000



- 36 -
136.   To facilitate the procurement of equipment and the hiring of individual consultants, the
Borrower has proposed to the IDA to employ their Central Tender Board which will be supported
by a Procurement Specialist who will be placed at the PCU.
C. DISBURSEMENTS AND FINANCING
137.   Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for
contracts valued below US$30,000. For every contract equal to or above this amount,
disbursements would be fully documented. For disbursements made through SOEs, detailed
documentation providing evidence of expenditures would be retained by the PCU in Georgetown,
and made available for the required audit and also for supervision by IDA. A special account for
an amount of US$1 million will be established in the Bank of Guyana to facilitate Government's
execution of the project.
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
138.   Separate accounts would be kept for all expenditures made under the project. The PCU
would maintain records and accounts for all project activities. The accounts and SOEs would be
audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA in accordance with the Bank
Group's Auditing Guidelines. The annual independent audit will include a physical audit to
ensure that equipment items to be financed under the General Administration component actually
are with the intended users. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six
months after the close of each project's fiscal year.
E. MONITORING PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT EVALUATION
139.   To support sound monitoring and evaluation of the project and improve effectiveness of
credit funds, agreement was reached on a set of evaluation criteria and performance indicators
(Attachment II) for each part and component of the proposed project. Agreement also was
reached on the preparation of the following: (i) semi-annual progress reports (to be furnished to
IDA not later than June 15 and December 15 of each year); (ii) annual reviews and; (iii) an in-
depth mid-term review of project implementation (to be carried out with IDA not later than July
1995). In all cases performance monitoring will be based on the agreed evaluation criteria and
performance indicators.
140.   There would be annual internal audits of the application of the agreed salary structure
and implementation of the recruitment program. Given that PSC is the focal point for decision
making on matters of public service management, PSC should be in charge of carrying out these
internal audits with the support of the PCU on the basis of the methodology agreed between the
Government and IDA. The review of these internal audits will be a central aspect of IDA's
supervisions.



- 37 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
141.   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a) implement, not later than one month after project effectiveness, in terms satisfactory to
IDA, the new public service salary structure, and basic reforms to personnel
management, including: (i) decompression of the salary scale; (ii) shifting and filling of
key and critical positions; (iii) incorporation, within the salary scale, of all positions
presently filled through special contracts, allowances, and other salary enhancements and
therefore, the cancellation of all employment practices outside the formal public service
regime; and (iv) measures for eliminating labor redundancy in the lower level of the
salary scale (paras. 82-86);
(b) execute the Public Sector Management Strengthening components and the Recruitment
Program in accordance with the agreed action plans and annual work programs (paras.
89-119 and Attachments I to VII);
(c) maintain, until completion of the project, a PCU with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to IDA, including, inter alia, the coordination of the execution of all parts of
the project by monitoring progress of each activity of, and providing support to, the
Executing Agencies (paras. 120-121);
(d) ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by the National Project Director, assisted by a
full-time Deputy Director and a Procurement Advisor, all with qualifications, experience
and functions satisfactory to IDA, and by qualified staff in adequate numbers; it also will
maintain in the Executing Agencies qualified staff in adequate numbers as counterparts of
the consultants employed (paras. 122 and 136);
(e) carry out the procurement of goods and consultant services required for the project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit in accordance with agreed provisions
(paras. 132-135);
(f) prepare, through the PCU, and furnish to IDA for its approval the annual work programs
by not later than September 1 of each year, starting in 1994 (para. 120);
(g) prepare, through the PCU, semi-annual progress reports and, jointly with IDA, carry out
annual reviews of implementation of the agreed action plans and annual work programs
(para. 120);
(h) carry out with IDA, not later than July 1995, a mid-term review to assess overall
progress in project implementation. For this purpose, it will furnish to IDA, for its
approval, by not later than May 31, 1995, the terms of reference for this review (para.
120);
(i) prepare, through the MOF, with the support of PSM/OP and the PCU, and furnish to
IDA not later than March 30 of each year, the annual internal audits of the application of
the agreed salary structure and implementation of the Recruitment Program (paras. 120
and 140);



- 38 -
(j) have prepared at the time of the mid-term evaluation of the project, a time bound
program for public sector reform based upon the studies prepared under this project.
This program would be agreeable to IDA and, on the basis of it, IDA could continue
assisting the Government's efforts towards the modernization of the public sector (para.
121).
142.  In addition, at negotiations, the Government presented to IDA a signed Public Sector
Development Policy Letter. The Policy Letter sets out the broad outlines of the Government's
long-term strategy for public sector reform (Attachment VIII); and on the basis of it, the project
will support preparation of the related program.
143.   Before Effectiveness, the following conditions should be met:
(a) the basic personnel records-keeping system, satisfactory to IDA, will be established;
(b) the PCU will be established and staffed in a manner satisfactory to IDA;
(c) formal arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, will be established for the coordination arnong
the PCU and the Executing Agencies;
(d) counterpart funds, adequate for project execution, would have been allocated in the
Borrower's 1993 budget; and
(e) annual work programs for the Public Sector Management Strengthening components and
the Recruitment Program for the first twelve months of project implementation will have
been finalized and agreed with IDA (draft programs have been agreed).
144.   Recommendations. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$12 million equivalent to the
Republic of Guyana for a period of 35 years, including a grace period of 10 years, on standard
IDA terms.



- 39 -
Annex A
Page 1 of 2
MISSION STATEMENTS OF THE M:NISTRIES
Office of the President
To ensure the President is equipped to carry out effectively his duties and responsibilities
as Head of State and Commander in Chief by:
Ensuring the provision of timely and competent advice; formulating and
implementing policies and programmes designed to improve the
management of the public services; providing administrative support to the
President and his Cabinet
MIinistry of Legal Affairs
To ensure that proper legal services are provided to the government; to provide statutory
services to the public relating to Public Trust and Bankruptcy matters; and to register
titles, mortgages, companies, societies and other bodies as well as documents required
by law.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
To promote and defend worldwide the interests of Guyana
Ministry of Home Affairs
To formulate policies in relation to the maintenance of public order and safety and to
ensure that such policies are implemented by the appropriate agencies in order to assist
in protecting and maintaining the social fabric of Guyana.
Ministry of Agriculture
To promote and support the development of Agriculture in Guyana
Ministry of Health
To ensure appropriate, adequate and competent health care is available to the population
of Guyana



- 40 -
Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
To ensure that every individual has access to educational/cultural and sporting
experiences which cater for his/her total development and equip him/her with the
knowledge skills and attitudes necessary to make a meaningful contribution to national
development.
Ministry of Labour, Human Services and Society Security
To contribute to economic growth and social development by maintaining a stable
industrial relations climate, formulating policies and providing integrated employment,
training, social and welfare services.
Ministry of Finance
To foster strong economic development by managing and maintaining sound public
finances, providing a positive framework for public and private initiatives, mobilizing
inflows and resources.
NMinistry of Trade, Tourism and Industry
To formulate and provide an effective mechanism for the implementation, evaluation and
improvement of policies, the aim of which will be to facilitate economic and social
improvements through co-ordinated actions in the areas of trade and trade liberalization,
tourism, industrial development and consumer affairs.
Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
To promote high technical standards in the construction industry, in electrical installation
and certification, and to co-ordinate and monitor policies and activities with respect to
the public infrastructure in roads and buildings.



- 41 -
Annex B
Page 1 of 1
SEMI-AUTONOMOUS AGENCIES
Ayangana Construction Limited
Bureau of Standards
Central Housing & Planning Authority
Civil Defence Commission
Consumer Affairs
Cooperative Finance Administation
Economic Recovery Programme Unit
Forestry Commission
General Construction Company
Guyana School of Agriculture
Guyana Agency for Health Education Environment & Food Policy
Guyana Manufacturing & Industrial Development Agency
Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA)
Mahaica Mahaicony Abary Project
National Insurance Scheme
National Relief Committee
National Dairy Development Programme
National Agricultural Tesearch Institute
National Congress of Local Democratic Organs
National Frequency Management
New guyana marketing Corporation
Plant Maintenance & Hire Division
Police Complaints Authority
Public Corporations Secretariat (PCS)
Public Utilities Commission
Regional Programme for Animal Health Assistance
Social Impact Amelioration Programme (SIMAP)
Statistical Bureau
University of Guyana



- 42 -
Annex C
Page 1 of 1
PUBLIC CORPORATIONS
List of Public Corporations under the PCS
National Padi and Rice Grading Center
National Edible Oil Company
Guyana Post Office Corporation
Guyana Electricity Corporation
Guyana Airways Corporation
Guyana Stores Limited
Guyana Oil Company Limited
Guyana National Shipping Corporation
Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation
Guyana Stockfeeds Limited
Guyana Soap and Detergent Company Limited
Sijan Plaza Limited
Santa Textiles Limited
Guyana National Engineering Corporation
Guyana Glassworks Limited
Independent Public Corporations
Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO) (in process of divestment)
Guyana Mining Enterprise (GUYMINE) (in process of divestment)
Guyana Liquor Corporation/Demerara Distilleries Limited
Guyana Broadcasting Company Limited (GNNL)
National Insurance Scheme
List of Public Corporations Divested
Guyana Telecommunications Corporation
Guyana Transport Services Limited
Guyana Fisheries Limited
NICHIMO Company Limited
Demerara Woods Limited
Guyana Rice Milling and Marketing Authority
Guyana Rice Export Board
Quality Foods Limited
Guyana National Trading Corporation
Sijan Palace
National Paints Company Limited
Seals and Packaging Industries Limited



- 43 -
Annex D
Page 1 of 1
GUYANA NATIONAL PRINTERS LIMaTED
SALARY SCALES WITH EFFECT FROM JANUARY 1, 1992
GY             MllNIMUM               MID-POINT              MAXIMUM
01                  4,500                   5,425                  6,350
02                  5,050                   6,113                  7,176
03                  5,670                   6,885                  8,100
04                  6,540                   7,973                  9,406
05                  7,450                   9,111                 10,771
06                  8,540                  10,475                 12,410
07                  10,290                 12,665                 15,040
08                  14,050                 17,560                 21,070
09                  17,200                 21,500                 25,800
10                 20,380                  25,465                 30,550
1 1                24,190                  30,235                 36,280
12                 27,600                  34,500                 41,400
13                 43,650                  54,560                 65,470
14                 52,110                  65,135                 78,160
15                 62,440                  78,050                 93,660
16                 74,650                  93,315                111,980



- 44 --
Annex E
Page 1 of 1
GUYANA FISHERIES LIMITED
SALARY SCALES AND DAILY WAGE RATES EFFECTIVE 1.1.92
GY GRADE    MINIMUM                      MIDPOINT               MAXIMUM
12                13,880                  16,376                18,866
11                11,891                  13,987                16,080
10                10,222                  11,986                13,746
9                  8,823                 10,297                 11,781
8                  7,641                  8,886                 10,128
7                  6,650                  7,597                  8,744
6                  5,819                  6,700                  7,578
5                  5,117                  5,860                  6,595
4                  4,524                  5,147                  5,767
3                  4,033                  4,555                  5,079
2                  3,619                  4,061                  4,501
1                  3,268                  3,673                  4,073
DAILY WAGE RATES
141.54                 187.29
171.29                 217.62
194.88                 242.87
215.66                 266.67
235.35                 289.55



- 45 -
Annex F
Page 1 of 1
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES
Office of The Auditor General
Office of the Ombudsman
Public and Police Service Commission
Parliament Office
Public Prosecutions
Public Service Appelate Tribunal
Elections Commission
Teaching Training Service
Judicial Service Commission






- 46 -
Annex G
Page 1 of 12
GUYAMA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYrENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Total
TOTAL POSITIONS APPROVED
MINISTRIES/DEPARTNENTS
Finance  /                             3    1   14    0   96   67   59  298 255  116    8   75   49   45   15 20   26  1147
Secretary to the Treasury            0    0   14    0    0   37    0   23   33   11    1   16    3   22   14    9    6   189
Inland Rvenue                        0    a    0    0  96        0    0 128  37  35         0  13  46        3    0    0    9  367
Custom & Excise                      3    1    0    0    0   28   58   92  117   40    7   20    0    1    1    7    9   384
Accountant Gneratl                         0    0    0    0    2    1  55  68  30           0  26      0   19    0    4    2  207
Public Works, Cao. & Reg. Dev.    74   82   32   43   23   13   10   25    0    5   10    1    0    0    6    2    3   329
Agriculture                          125   64   79   85   32   28   36    9    6    5   18    3   12    6   11    3    2   524
Head Office                         29   21   12   10    8    6    4    4    2    3    0    0    2    0    2    a    2   105
Hydromet                             9    7   22   31    9   13    8    0    1    0    5    0    0    0    1    0    0   106
HydrauLics                           8    7    6    3    1    1    3    0    0    0    0    0    3    0    1    1    0    34
Crops & Livestock                   52   11   10   31    0    1   10    0    2    0    8    1    0    4    5    1    0   136
Lands & Survey                      20   16   20    7   14    6    7    5    0    2    5    0    7    2    0    1    0   112
Fisheries                            7    2    9    3    0    1    4    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    2    0    0    31
Legal Affairy                         92  112   80   13   44   22    5   12    1    3    1    2    1    1    0    0   53   442
He d Office                         11   10    8    2    4    2    0    2    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    42
Supreme Court                       33   29   37    5   22   10    2    6    1    0    1    1    1    1    0    0    3   152
Magistrates                         34   62   15    1    9    3    3    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   21   149
Attorney General                     0    1    0    3    1    1    0    1    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0 .23    32
Deeds Registry                      11    8   15    1    6    4    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    2    49
Official Receiver                    3    2    5    1    2    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    3    18
Health                               509  482  473  256   69  390  136   59   47  201   42   13    8    1   26    0    0  2712
Heed Office                         19   71   17   23   13    8    4    a    0   10    1    a    5    1    1    0    0   181
National Hospitals                 400  251  433  149    4  359   62   18   32  16.1   25    4    2    0   21    0    0  1921
Other HesLth Program                90 160  23  84  52  23  70  33  15  30  16                    9    1    0    4    0    0  610
Hom  Affairs                         614 2848  283  642  421  190   16   86   24   45   25    3   15    2    9    1    1  5225
Heed Offic-                         16   23   20    3    4    5    0    6    2    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    1    84
General Regstrar Office              2    1   30    0    2    5    0    1    2    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    45
Police Department                  461 2372  219  535  319  141   15   69   19   29   18    0   13    0    5    1    0  4216
Prisons                             92  196    3   47   65   24    0   10    0    5    4    0    1    0    1    0    0   448
Fire Protection Services             7  250    2   54   29   13    0    0    0    8    3    0    1    0    1    0    0   368
National Registration Centre        34    6    7    2    2    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    1    1    0    0    56
Police Coaplsints Authority          2    0    2    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    0              8
Trade, Tourism, & Industry            12   13    8    7    3    3    8    2    0    2    0   15    6    6    2    0    2    89
office of the President                6    7    0    2    0  136    0   57   40   19    0   31    0   37    5    8   10   358
Foreign Affairs                       13    0   62   37   25   17   56   39    0   32    0    0   10    9    9   13    0   322
Labor, Hum n Serv.    SocilL Sec.  45   43    9   10   16    8   15   40   24    9    1    3    7    0    1    0    2   233
Education & Cultural Development  388  210   93   65   56   19   23   39   12   91  110   32   12   11    5    1    3  1170
Heed Office                         59  106   42   14   21   11    7    7    8   11    4   19    6    6    4    1    3   329
Nat. Centre for Educationla Res  15   11    8    6    3    3   10    0    0    4   24    0    0    0    0    0    0    84
Technical & Vocatonal Schools   32   21   13    9    9    0    0   13    0   34   34   10    3    2    0    0    0   180
S*cond., Multilat. & Coamn. Hi  95   29    7    4    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   139
Teacher Training InstitUte          46   23    6    3    2    1    1    1    0   38   37    0    0    1    0    0    0   159
Dertment of Sports                  11    1    4    1    6    0    2   18    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    43
Department of Culture               47   19   12   28    9    4    2    0    3    4   11    3    2    2    1    0    0   147
Practical Instruction Center        80    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    81
Craft Production Unit                3    0    0    0    2    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0              8
Total                                 1881 3862 1133 1160  785  893  364  666  409  528  215  178  120  118   89   48  102 12551
NCLosed*  Ministry Total                22    8   76   39  121  220  115  394  295  167    8  106   59   91   29   41   36  1827
.. - --_-... -   --- . --- ---- ... - --- . .   _  _-   .   ___ -__  ___- . - _   ....-...---   _ - _   _.__-..- -..  _ --- . --- -.- ,  _ -_



- 47 -
Annex G
Page 2 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Sp*c.Total
TOTAL POSITIONS APPROVED (Cont.)
REGIOlAL ADMINISTRATIONS:
Region 1                             142   85   27   34   12   19   19   10    3    4    6    2    2    0    0    0    0   365
Administration                      53   35   20   15    5    4    2    6    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   142
Education                           16    7    3    1    2    1   -0    1    0    0    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    35
HeaLth                              61   41    1   14    0   10   14    2    2    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   149
Agriculture                         12    2    3    4    5    4    3    1    a    0    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    39
Region 2                             331  153   71   60   26   53   37   24    5   12    3    4    2    0    0    0    0   781
Administration                     117  119   43   19   15   11    5    7    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   338
Education                           25   12    3    0    3 .1         1    4    1    0    0    2    1    0    0    0    0    53
HeaLth                              57   22   25   15    1   34   23   12    2   12    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   204
Agriculture                        132    0    0   26    7    7    8    1    0    0    3    1    1    0    0    0    0   186
Region 3                             294  159   87   66   23   18   55   22    8   21    5    7    3    0    0    0    0   768
Administration                     149   83   42   22   18   10    8    7    2    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   345
Education                           27    4    1    0    1    0    1    1    2    0    4    3    1    0    0    0    0    45
Health                              85   37   34   23    1    0   43   13    4   17    0    1    1    0    0    0    0   259
Agriculture                         33   35   10   21    3    8    3    1    0    0    1    3    1    0    0    0    0   119
Region 4                             383  164   81   71   22   37   60   30    7   12   10    7    2    2    0    0    0   888
Aduinistration                     117   82   43   19   15   15    8    9    2    4    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   315
Education,                          44    5    1    0    3    0    1    4    2    0    5    2    1    0    0    0    0    68
Health                              55   17    8   15    0   14   43   15    3    8    0    2    0    0    0    0    0   180
Agriculture                        167   60   29   37    4    8    8    2    0    0    4    3    1    2    0    0    0   325
Region 5                             225   87   56   31   11   27   25   20    3    6    5    4    1    0    0    0    0   501
Administration                      67   52   18    8    6   10    5    6    2    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   176
Education                           54   11    0    0    2    0    2    2    0    0    3    2    1    0    0    0    0    77
Health                              61    7   31   18    0   17   14   12    1    4    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   166
Agriculture                         43   17    7    5    3    0    4    0    0    0    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    82
Region 6                             427  249  134   83   27  106   78   35   10   27   10    6    5    3    0    0    0  1200
Administration                      92   73   29   20   17   14    5    9    2    4    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   266
Education                           65   14    2    0    4    0    2    3    2    0    6    3    1    0    0    0    0   102
HeaLth                             126   74   83   32    0   89   62   22    5   23    0    1    3    0    0    0    0   520
Agriculture                        144   88   20   31    6    3    9    1    1    0    4    1    1    3    0    0    0   312
Region 7                             114   63   27   27   12   22   17   13    2    6    2    3    2    0    0    0    0   310
Administration                      66   20   16   12    8    5    1    5    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   135
Education                            6    1    0    0    1    0    0    4    0    0    1    2    1    0    0    0    0    16
Health                              36   39    8    9    1   16   13    4    1    5    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   133
Agriculture                          6    3    3    6    2    1    3    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    26
Region 8                              84   50   20   13    5    6    7    4    1    3    2    1    1    1    0    0    0   198
Administration                      46   25   14    6    5    4    1    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   105
Education                           15    5    2    2    0    0    0    2    0    0    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    30
Health                               2   18    0    5    0    0    6    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    33
Agriculture                         21    2    4    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    30
Region 9                             164   94   22   47   10   21   16    9    1    6    4    2    1    0    0    0    0   397
Administration                      59   45   11   14    7    4    1    4    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   147
Education                           25    1    1    1    0    0    0    2    0    0    2    1    1    0    0    0    a    34
Health                              53  44      7   13    0   14   13    3    0    5    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   153
Agriculture                         27    4    3   19    3    3    2    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    63
Region 10                             88   52   23   25   15   30   16   11    4    3    4    4    2    0    0    0    0   277
Administration                      20   26    8    6    7    4    0    7    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    81
Education                           28    5    1    0    3    0    0    3    1    0    2    2    1    0    0    0    0    46
Heslth                               7   16   10   14    0   22   13    1    1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    87
Agriculture                         33    5    4    5    5    4    3    0    0    0    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    63
TotaL                                 2252 1156  548  457  163  339  330  178   44  100   51   40   21    6    0    0    0  5685
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES:
Office of the Auditor General          0    0    0    0    0    7    0   30   36   31    0   42   39    0    0   24   14   223
Office of the Ombuds n                 2    2    1    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0               7
Public and Policc Service Com.         0    0    3    4    6    4    0    5    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    24
Partaiment Office                      8    8    5    5    1    2    0    5    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    36
Public Prosecutions                    3    2    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    8    0    3    2    1    0    21
Public Service Appelate Tribunal    3    1    0    2    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0                  9
ELections Conmission                   3    3    1    1    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    10
teaching Service Colfssion            12   10    7    3    4    2    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    42
Ju.dicial Service Commission        N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.  N.A.
Total                                   31   26   17   16   14   18    0   43   37   34    1   50   40    3   .2   25   15   372
Overall Totat                         4164 5044 1698 1633  962 1250  694  887  490  662  267  268  181  127   91   73  117 18608
--              -       -   -     --           -     -     -     -      -    -     -     -     -     -     -      -    -      -      -
Source: Government ot Guyana, Publicc Service  anagement, Office of the President.



- 48 -
Annex G
Page 3 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Total
TOTAL POSITIONS FILLED
MINISTRIES/DEPARTMENTS                                                          -
Finance                                O    0    7    0   66   55   51  223   89   77    4   48   23   36    9   14   16   718
Secretary to the Treasury            0    0    7    0    0   33    0   22   16    6    1    8    0   17    8    4    4   126
InLand Revenue                       0    0     0    0   66    0    0   93   16   33    0    5   23           1    0    0    4   241
Customs & Excise                     0    0    0    0    0   20   50   56   51   16    3   14    0    0    1    6    7   224
Accountant General                    0    0    0    0    0    2    1   52    6   22    0   21    0   18    0    4    1   127
Public Works, Conm. & Reg. Dev.    52   73   15   22   12    9    7   13    0    4    0    0    0    0    3    2    0   212
Agriculture                           104   54   52   49   25   17   16    3    4    4   17    3    8    5   11    2    1   375
Head Office                         28   20    7    7    6    4    2    3    1    2    0    0    0    0    2    0    1    83
Hydromet                             8    3   14   14    5   10    4    0    1    0    4    0    0    0             1    0    0    64
Hydraulics                           3    4    3    2    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    3    0             1    1    0    19
Crops & Livestock                   42   11    8   21    0    0    3    0    1    0    8    1    0    4    5    1    0   105
Lands & Survey                      19   14   14    4   14    3    3    0    0    2    5    0    5    1    0    0    0    84
Fisheries                            4    2    6    1    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    2    0    0    20
Legal Affairs                         73   69   41       8   17   13    4    6    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0   33   267
Head Office'                         7    4    3    1    1    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    19
Supreme Court                       30   19   24    3    6   10    1    3    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    1    98
magistrates                         26   37   10    1    7    3    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   12    99
Attorney General                     0    1    0    1    1    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   15    20
Deds Registry                        7    6    3       1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    2    20
Official Receiver                    3    2    1    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    2    11
Health                               390  318  325 137   40  216   64   28   18   77   17    8    4    1   14    0    0  1657
Head Office                         14   29    5   11    6    4    2    5    0    8    1    0    3             1    1    0    0    90
National Hospitals                 329  193  309   56    2  199   26    8   11   54   10    3    1    0   11    0    0  1212
Other HeaLth Programs               47   96   11   70   32   13   36   15    7   15    6    5    0    0    2    0    0   355
Home Affairs                         314 1742  240  560  314  150   15   79   20   42   25    1   15             1    6    1    1  3526
Heed Office                         11   16    6    1    3    3    0    1    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    45
General Registrar Office             2    1   27    0    2    4    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    39
Police Department                  170 1611  200  475  235  119   14   69   17   29   18    0   13    0    3    1    0  2974
Prisons                             92   36    1   38   48   15    0    9    0    3    4    0    1    0    1    0    0   248
Fire Protection Services             4   74    1   43   24    9    0    0    0    8    3    0    1    0             1    0    0   168
National Registration Centre        33    4    5    Z    2    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    48
Police Colaints Authority            2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0                4
Trade, Tourism, & Industry             11    9    3    0    2    1    2    2    0    1    0   14    6    5    1    0    2    59
Office of the President                 2    5    0    1    0   80    0   43   26   12    0   24    0   25    4    5    9   236
Foreign Affairs                        0    0   19   10    2    4   44   14    0   24    0    0    9    9    9   13    0   157
Labor, Human Serv., & SociaL Sec.  38   39    6    9    9    8    8   24   20    9    1    3    6    0                 1    1    1   183
Education & Cultural Development  253  159   37   25   17    8   11   24    1   57   54   12    7    6    4    1    1   677
Head Office                         44   89   18    6    6    4    1    3    1    9    1    7    3    3    4    1    1   201
Nat. Centre for EducationaL Res  11    8    1    3    0    2    6    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    33
Technical & Vocational Schools   29   16    5    2    2    0    0   11    0   25   27    5    2    2    0    0    0   126
Second., Multitat. & Conmmn. Hi  75   20    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    95
Teacher Training Institute          38   12    3    1    0    0    1    0    0   22   20    0    0    1    0    0    0    98
Department of Sports                10    1    2    0    4    0    1   10    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    28
Department of Culture                18   13    8   13    4    2    2    0    0    1    4    0    1    0    0    0    0    66
PracticaL Instruction Center        25    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    25
Craft Production Unit                3    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0                5
Total                                  1237 2468  745  821  504  561  222  459  178  309  118  114   78   88   62   39   64  8067
"Closed" Ministry Total                   2    5   26   11   68  139   95  280  115  113    4   72   3Z   70   22   32   25  1111
---   - --   -   -- -- -- --- - _ - --   ---_--   - --_---_-       --   --_ -.- _--       - --  --- --  -- --  --- --  -- --  --- --. - --



- 49 -
Annex G
Page 4 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Sp*c.TotaL
TOTAL POSITIONS FILLED (Cont.)
REGIONAL AOMINISTRATIONS:
Region 1                              89   52   11   12    2    5    6    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   179
Administration                      32   21   10    6    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    71
Education                            6    3    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    11
Health                              43   28    1    4    0    3    6    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    86
AgricuLture                          8    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    11
Region 2                             222  115   40   33   12   28   17    9    0    2    0    I    1    0    0    0    0   480
Achinistration                      84   85   24   12    9    5    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   222
Education                           22   10    1    0    1    1    0    2    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    38
Health                              50   20   15    5    0  .21   12    4    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   129
Agriculture                         66    0    0   16    2    1    4    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    91
Region 3                             243  114   54   38    5    9   31   11    1   14    4    4    2    0    0    0    0   530
Administration                     129   63   22   11    4    7    4    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   244
Education                           24    1    0    0    0    0    1    1    1    0    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    33
Health                              60   28   27   15    0    0   23    6    0   13    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   172
Agriculture                         30   22    5   12    1    2    3    1    0    0    1    3    1    0    0    0    0    81
Region 4                             346  120   36   55   10   24   31   18    0    5    4    1    1    0    0    0    0   651
Administration                     110   67   16   15    6   11    4    3    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   234
Education                           33    5    1    0    2    0    0    4    0    0    2    1    0    0    0    0    a    48
Health     X                        40    2    1   11    0   10   23   11    0    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   101
Agriculture                        163   46   18   29    2    3    4    0    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0   268
Region S                             178   61   39    6    5   18    7   11    0    3    5    2    0    0    0    0    0   335
Adninistration                      52   39    5    2    2    4    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   106
Education                           52    9    0    0    2    0    0    2    0    0    3    2    0    0    0    0    0    70
HeaLth                              56    7   29    2    0   14    7    8    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   125
Agriculture                         18    6    5    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    34
Region 6                             247  149  108   59   13   87   38   19    5   16    5    2    1    0    0    0    0   749
Administration                      65   48   14    a    7    7    2    7    2    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   164
Education                           36   13    1    0    1    0    2    3    0    0,   3    1    0    0    0    0    0    60
Health                              75   46   79   25    0   79   29    8    3   13    0    0    1    0    0    0    0   358
AgricuLture                         71   42   14   26    5    1    5    1    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0   167
Region 7                              83   46   10    9    5   11    6    2    0    3    1    1    1    0    0    0    0   178
Administration                      49   15    3    5    2    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    78
Education                            4    0    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0              8
Health                              25   30    6    3    1    8    5    0    0    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    81
Agriculture                          5    1    1    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    11
Region 8                              10   14    6    4    3    1    3    0    0    0    1    1    1    0    0    0    0    44
Administration                       7    9    5    1    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    27
Education                            3    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    1    1    0    0    0    0    10
Health                               0    2    0    2    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              6
Agriculture                          0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              1
Region 9                              77   54    9   14    3    1    5    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   164
Administration                      35   21    3    0    2    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    63
Education                            4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              4
Health                              24   31    4    6    0    0    5    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    70
Agriculture                         14    2    2    8    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    27
Region 10                             52   38   16   10    6   12    9    5    1    0    3    1    2    0    0    0    0   155
Administration                      18   22    3    1    4    1    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    51
Education                           23    1    0    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    31
HeaLth                               5   13   10    7    0   10    9    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    56
Agriculture                          6    2    3    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    17
TotaL                                 1547  763  329  240   64  196  153   76    8   43   24   13    9    0    0    0    0  3465
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES:
Office of the AudLtor Genert           0    0    0    a    0    6    0   18   19   21    0   17   29    0    0   20   10   140
Office of the Ombudsann                2    1    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              5
Public and Police Service Com.         a    0    2    0    3    1    0    3    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    11
Partaiment Office                      6    6    1    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    17
Public Prosecutions                    3    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    8    0    0    1    1    0    14
Public Service Appelate Tribunat       2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0              4
Elections Cowmission                   4    3    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    10
Teeching Service Commission           11    8    1    1    2    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    27
Jiudicial Service Commission       N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.  N.A.
rotaL                                   28   18    6    7    5    9    0   24   19   24    0   25   30    0    1   21   11   228
)verall Total                        2812 3249 1080 1068  573  766  375  559  205  376  142  152  117   88   63   60   75 11760
;ource: Goverrenent of Guyana, Public Service Management, Office of the President.



- 50 -
Annex G
Page 5 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT SY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.TotaL
TOTAL VACANCIES
MINISTRIES:
Finance                                3    1    7    0   30   12    8   73  166   39    4   27   26    9    6    6   10   429
Secretary to the Treasury            0    0    7    0    0    4    0    1   17    5    0    8    3    5    6    5    2    63
Inland Revenue                      0    0    0    0   30    0    0   35   21    2    0    8   23    2    0    0    5   126
Customs & Excise                     3    1    0    0    0    8    8   36   66   24    4    6    0    1    0    1    2   160
Accountant GeneraL                   0    0    0    0    0    0    0    3   62    8    0    5    0    1    0    0    1    80
Public Works, Corm. & Reg. Dev.    22    9   17   21   11    4    3   12    0    1   10    1    0    0    3    0    3   117
Agriculture                           21   10   27   36    7   11   20    6    2    1    1    0    4    1    0    1    1   149
Head Office                          1    1    5    3    2    2    2    1    1    1    0    0    2    0    0    0    1    22
Hydromer                             1    4    8   17    4    3    4    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    42
Hydraulics                           5    3    3    1    1    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    15
Crops & Livestock                   10    0    2   10    0    1    7    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    31
Lands & Survey                       1    2    6    3    0    3    4    5    0    0    0    0    2    1    0    1    0    28
Fisheries                           3    0    3    2    0    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    G    11
LegaL Affairs                         19   43   39    5   27    9    1    6    1    1    1    1    1    1    0    0   20   175
Head office[                         4    6    5    1    3    2    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    23
Suprme Court                        3   10   13    2   16    0    1    3    1    0    1    0    1    1    0    0    2    54
Magistrates                          8   25    5    0    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    9    So
Attorney GeneraL                     0    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    8    12
Deeds Registry                       4    2   12    0    6    4    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    29
Official Receiver                    0    0    4    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0.   0    1            7
HeaLth                               119  164  148  119   29  174   72   31   29  124   25    5    4    0   12    0    0  1055
Head Office                          5   42   12   12    7    4    2    3    0    2    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    91
Nationat HospitaLs                  71   58  124   93    2  160   36   10   21  107   15    1    1    0   10    0    0   709
Other Health Prograrm               43   64   12   14   20   10   34   18    8   15   10    4    1    0    2    0    0   255
Home Affairs                        300 1106   43   82  107   40    1    7    4    3    0    2    0    1    3    0    0  1699
Head Office                          5    7   14    2    1    2    0    5    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    39
Generat Registrar Office             0    0    3    0    0    1    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0            6
Police Department                 291  761   19   60   84   22    1    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0  1242
Prisons                              0  160    2    9   17    9    0    1    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   200
Fire Protection Services            3  176    1   11    5    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   200
Nationalt Registration Centre        1    2    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    1    0    0            8
Police Complaints Authority          0    0    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0            4
Trade, Tourism, & Industry             1    4    5    7    1    2    6    0    0    1    0    1    0    1    1    0    0    30
Office of the President                4    2    0    1    0   56    0   14   14    7    0    7    0   12    1    3    1   1Z2
Foreign Affairs                       13    0   43   27   23   13   12   25    0    8    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    S65
Labor, Huran Serv, & Social Sec.   7    4    3    1    7    0    7   16    4    0    0    0    1    0    0   -1    1    ;0
Education & CuLturat Development  135   51   56   40   39   11   12   15   11   34   56   20    5    5    1    0    2   493
Head Office                         15   17   24    8   15    7    6    4    7    2    3   12    3    3    0    0    2   128
mat. Centre for EducationaL Res   4    3    7    3    3    1    4    0    0    4   22    0    0    0    0    0    0    S
Technicat & Vocational Schools    3    5    8    7    7    0    0    2    0    9    7    5    1    0    0    0    0    54
Second., MultiLat.& Commun. Hi  20    9    7    4    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    44
Teacher Training Institute           8   11    3    2    2    1    0    1    0   16   17    0    0    0    0    0    0    61
Department of Sports                 1    0    2    1    2    0    1    8    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    15
Department of Culture               29    6    4   15    5    2    0    0    3    3    7    3    1    2    1    0    0    81
PracticaL Instruction Center        55    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    i6
Craft Production Unit                0    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0            3
Totat                                  644 1394  388  339  281  332  142  207  231  219   97   64   42   30   27    9   38  4484
Closed' Ministry Total                 20    3   50   28   53   81   20  114  180   54    4   34   27   21    7    9   11   716
--.  -- . ---.-- ----.-- ----  - ------- ------ --  --- --_  .-   --...- --...-- . -.  -- -..--- . ----  - . .   .. - . -...-- -- . . .  . -..  -



- 51 -
Annex G
Page 6 of 12
GuYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Totat
TOTAL VACANCIES (Cont.)
REGiONAL ADMINISTRATIONS:
zgion 1                                53   33   16   22   10   14   13   10    2    4    5    2    2    0    0    0    0   156
Administration                       21   14   10    9    4    3    2    6          1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    71
Education                            10    4    3       1    1    1    0    1    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    24
Heslth                               18   13    0   10    0    7    8    2    1    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    63
Agriculture                           4    2    3    2    5    3    3    1    0    0    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    28
Region 2                              109   38   31   27   14   25   20   15    5   10    3    3             1    0    0    0    0   301
Administration                       33   34   19    7    6    6    4    5    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   116
Education                             3    2    2    0    2    0    1    2    1    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    15
ieatlth                               7    2   10   10    1   13   11    8    2   10    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    75
Agriculture                          66    0    0   10    5    6    4    0    0    0    3    1    0    0    0    0    0    95
.lgion 3                               51   45   33   28   18    9   24   11    7    7    1    3             1    0    0    0    0   238
Administration                       20   20   20   11   14    3    4    4    2    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   101
Education                             3    3    1    0    1    0    0    0    1    0    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    12
Health                               25    9    7    8    1    0   20    7    4    4    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    87
AgricuLture                           3   13    5    9    2    6    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    38
Region 4                               37   44   45   16   12   13   29   12    7    7    6    6             1    2    0    0    0   237
Adniinistration                       7   15   27    4    9    4    4    6    2    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    81
Education                            11    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    2    0    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    20
Health                               15   15    7    4    0    4   20    4    3    5    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    79
Agriculture                           4   14   11    8    2    5    4    2    0    0    2    3    0    2    0    0    0    57
Rigion 5                               47   26   17   25    6    9   18    9    3    3    0    2             1    0    0    0    0   166
AdMinistration                       15   13   13    6    4    6    5    5    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    70
Education                             2    2    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0             1    0    0    0    0         7
Health                                5    0    2   16    0    3    7    4          1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    41
Agriculture                          25   11    2    3    2    0    4    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    48
Region 6                              180  100   26   24   14   19   40   16    5   11    5    4    4    3    0    0    0   451
Administration                       27   25   15   12   10    7    3    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   102
Education                            29     1    1    0    3    0    0    0    2    0    3    2    1    0    0    0    0    42
HeaLth                               51   28    4    7    0   10   33   14    2   10    0    1    2    0    0    0    0   162
Agriculture                          73   46    6    5    1    2    4    0    1    0    2    1    1    3    0    0    0   145
qgion 7                                31   17   17   18    7   11   11   11    2    3    1    2    1    0    0    0    0   132
Administration                       17    5   13    7    6    2    1    4    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    57
Education                             2    1    0    0    0    0    0    3    0    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0                  8
Health                               11    9    2    6    0    8    8    4          1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    52
Agriculture                            1    2    2    S    1    1    2    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    15
-',-9ion 8                             74   36   14    9    2    5    4    4          1    3    1    0    0    1    0    0    0   154
Ac inistration                       39   16    9    5    2    3    0    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    78
Education                            12    2    2    1    0    0    0    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    20
Health                                2   16    0    3    0    0    4    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    27
Agriculture                          21    2    3    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    29
Region 9                               87   40   13   33       7   20   11    8    1    6    4    2    1    0    0    0    0   233
Administration                       24   24    8   14    5    3    1    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    84
Education                            21    1    1    1    0    0    0    2    0    0    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    30
Health                               29   13    3    7    0   14    8    3    0    5    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    83
.Agriculture                         13    2    1   11    2    3    2    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    36
Region 10                              36   14    7   15    9   18    7    6    3    3    1    3    0    0    0    0    0   122
Adeinistration                        2    4    5    5    3    3    0    5    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    30
Fr*ucation                            5    4      1    0    2    0    0    1    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    15
Health                                2    3    0    7    0   12    4    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    31
AgricuLture                          27    3      1    3    4    3    3    0    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    46
Total                                    705  393  219  217   99  143  177  102   36   57   27   27   12    6    0    0    0  2220
CONS(ITUrTIONAL AGENCIES:
0ftice of the Auditor GeneraL            0    0    0    0    0    1    0   12   17   10    0   25   10    0    0    4    4    83
Office of the Ombiudmn                   0    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                 2
Public and Police Service Com.           0    0     1    4    3    3    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    13
Partai-nent office                       2    2    4    2    1    1    0    5    1    0           1    0    0    0    0    0    0    19
Pulbiic Prosecutions                    0    2    0    0        1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    3           1    0    0       7
PutAJc Service AppeLate Tribwnal         1    1    0    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                 5
ELectiuss Cctmission                   -1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                  0
Teechifpg Service Coauisaion             1    2    6    2    2    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    15
2udiciat Service Comuission          N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. M.A.  N.A.
otata                                      3    8   11    9    9    9    0   19   18   10    1   25   10    3              1    4    4   144
over3t1 Total                           1352 1795  618  565  389  484  319  328  28S  286  125  116   64   39   28   13   42  6848
Source: Z;overnment of Guyana, Public Service Management, Office of the President.



- 52 -
Annex G
Page 7 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Tatal
TOTAL POSITIONS FILLED: MALES
MINISTRIES:
Finance                                0    0    4    0   30   19   48   91   42   30    3   21    8   16    6   1C   14   342
Secretary to the Treasury            0    a    4    a    a    5    0    7    3    0    0    1    0    6    5    2    3    36
Inland Revenue                       O    0    0    0   30    0    0   34    3   12    0    2    8    1    0    0    3    93
Custoim & Excis-                     0    0    0    0    0   13   47   35   32   14    3   11    0    0    1    5    7   168
Accountant General                   0    0    0    0    0    1    1   15    4    4    0    7    0    9    0    3    1    45
Public Works, Com. &Reg. Dev.    11   27    6   16    8    7    6   10    0    2    0    0    0    0    3    2    0    98
Agriculture                           41   15   37   33   15   10   12    2    2    3   16    2    8    4   10    1    0   211
Head Office                         11    3    4    2    1    1    0    2    1    2    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    29
Hydromet                             0    2   10   12    5    8    4    0    0    0    4    0    0    0    1    0    0    46
Hydraulics                           0    2    2    2    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    3    0    1    1    0    13
Crops & Livestock                   23    5    8   14    0    0    1    0    0    0    7    0    0    3    4    0    0    65
Lands & Survey                       5    2   10    2    9    1    3    0    0    1    5    0    5    1    0    0    0    44
Fisheries                            2    1    3    1    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    2    C    0    14
Legal Affairs                         19   13   27    4   11    8    3    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   19   106
Head Office%                         3    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    1              6
Supreme Court                        9    5   22    3    3    6    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    43
Magistrates                          3    6    4    1    6    2    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    9    34
Attorney General                     0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    7              8
Deeds Registry                       3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    2              6
Official Receiver                    1    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              4
HeaLth                               140   98    8   46   24    9   23   12    8   45   14    6    4    1    9    0    0   447
Head Office                          6   22    2    7    3    2    2    2    0    7    1    0    3    1    1    0    0    59
National Hospitals                 117   17    4    2    2    0    0    0    2   27    7    2    1    0    6    0    0   187
Other HeaLth Programs               17   59    2   37   19    7   21   10    6   11    6    4    0    0    2    0    0   201
Hame Affairs                         216 1302  159  440  269  135   13   75.  17   41   21    0   15    0    6    1    0  2710
Head Office                          4    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              8
General Registrar Office             0    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              3
Police Department                  163 1212  153  371  201  111   13   66   16   28   14    0   13    0    3    1    0  2365
Prisons                             42   30    1   34   46   14    0    9    0    3    4    0    1    0    1    0    0   185
Fire Protection Services             1   57    1   33   22    9    0    0    0    8    3    0    1    0    1    0    0   136
Hational Registration Centre         6    2    2    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    12
PoLice CorpLaints Authority          0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    1    0    0               1
Trade, Tourism, & Industry             2    1    1    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    3    5    4    1    0    2    21
Office of the President                2    5    0    1    0   25    0   12    5    7    0   13    0   13    2    1    7    93
Foreign Affairs                        0    0    7    2    0    0   13    9    0   13    0    0    5    5    5    7    0    66
Labor, Humn Serv., & Social Sec.   5   12    2    0    4    4    4    6   11    6    0    3    5    0    1    1    0    64
Education & Cultur;( Oevelopment   55   36   22   16    7    5    6   14    1   36   33    9    1    4    3    1    1   250
Head Office                         12   14   10    3    1    2    1    1    1    6    0    4    1    2    3    1    1    63
Nat. Centre for EducationaL Res   0    5    1    2    0    2    4    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    15
Technical 4 Vocationl SchooLs   10   10    3    1    1    0    0    4    0   20   20    5    0    2    0    0    0    76
Second., MuLtiLet. & Com_n. Hi  18    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    20
Teacher Training Institute           8    2    0    a    0    0    0    0    0   10   10    0    0    0    0    0    0    30
Department of Sports                 2    1    2    0    4    0    1    9    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    19
Department of Culture                3    2    6   10    1    1    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    25
PracticaL Instruction Center         2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              2
Craft Production Unit                0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              0
TotaL                                  491 1509  273  558  368  222  130  232   86  184   87   57   51   47   46   24   43  4408
"Closed" Ministry TotaL                  2    5   11    3   30   44   61  112   47   50    3   34   13   34   13   18   21   501
---- --- ---- --- ---   --- --  - ---  -_- ----_-_--_----   ---  -- -_-_---- _-     ----  --- ----  --- ----_-_----      --_   --_--



- 53 -
Annex G
Page 8 of 12
GUYANA: PUSLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Total
TOTAL POSITIONS FILLED: HALES (Cont.)
REG:ONAL ADMINISTRATIONS:
Region 1                               43   24    8    8    2    3    4    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    93
Adcinistration                       20   12    8    5    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    47
Education                             2    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0               4
HeaLth                               16   12    0    1    0    1    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    34
Agricul-ure                           5    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                8
Region 2                              154   61   25   28    8    9    8    4    0    1    0    1    1    0    0    0    0   300
Administration                       57   59   23   11    5    4    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   161
Education                            13    0    0    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    17
Heaeth                              20    2    2    1    0    4    4    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    34
Agriculture                         64    0    0   16    2    1    3    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    88
Region 3                              141   71   23   20    3    8   19    3    1    9    4    3    1    0    0    0    0   306
Administration                       70   45   17    9    2    6    4    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   156
Education                            24    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    30
Heatth                              20    4    1    1    0    0   11    0    0    8    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    45
Agriculture                          27   22    5   10    1    2    3    1    0    0    1    3    0    0    0    0    0    75
Region 4                              215   88   26   31    4    8   15    7    0    4    2    1    0    0    0    0    0   401
Acdministration                      71   46   14   13    1    5    3    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   156
Education                            16    2    0    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    24
HeaLth     s                         15    1    0    0    0    0    8    3    0    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    30
Agriculture                         113   39   12   18    2    3    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   191
Region 5                               58   32    9    4    3    3    4    3    0    2    4    2    0    0    0    0    0   124
Acninistration                       21   24    5    2    1    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    57
Education                             2    1    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    0    2    2    0    0    0    0    0                9
Heakth                               20    2    0    0    0    0    4    1    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    29
AgricuLture                          15    5    4    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    29
Region 6                              128   67   23   30    7   21   25   11    2   10    2    2    1    0    0    0    0   329
Administration                       25   29    8    7    2    4    2    6    2    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    88
Education                            20    3    1    0    0    0    1    2    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    29
Health                               19    3    1    0    0   16   17    2    0    8    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    67
AgricuLture                          64   32   13   23    5    1    5    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   145
Region 7                               32    9    3    6    2    3    5    2    0    2    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    66
Acdinistration                       25    5    2    4    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    39
Education                             3    0    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0                6
Haslth                                2    3    0    1    0    1    4    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    13
AgricuLture                           2    1    1    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0                8
Region 8                                3    4    3    0    1    1    3    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    17
Acministration                        3    4    3    0    1    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    13
Education                             0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0                2
Health                                0    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                2
Agriculture                           0    0    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                0
Region 9                               41   33    8    8    2    1    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    95
Acdinistration                       25   14    3    0    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    45
Education                             1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                1
Health                                8   17    3    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    29
Agriculture                           7    2    2    8    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    20
Region 10                              20    7    4    3    4    1    2    3    0    0    2    0    2    0    0    0    0    48
Adcinistration                        3    5    1    1    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    13
Education                            11    0    0    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    16
Health                                0    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                2
AgricuLture                           6    2    3    2    1    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    17
TotaL                                   835  396  132  138   36   58   86   34    3   28   16  10             7    0    0    0    0  1779
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES:
Office of the Auditor GearaL            0    0    0    0    0    2    0    1   10    7    0    5   18    0    0   15   10    68
office of the Ombxasnn                  1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                1
Pubtlic ar  PoLice Service CoCm.        0    0    1    0    1    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                4
Parliament office                       1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                2
PUDLic Prosecutiors                     0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0    0    1    0                3
Pubtic Service4ApeLate Tribun L         1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0                2
ELections Co.mission                    I    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                2
Teaching Service Comission              0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1                2
JudiciaL Service Commission         M.A. M.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.  N.A.
TotaL                                     4    0    1    1    1    3    0    3   10    8    0    7   19    0    0   16   11    84
Overall Total                          1330 1905  406  697  405  283  216  269   99  220  103   74   77   47   46   40   54  6271
Source: Government of Guyana, Public Service Management, office of the President.



- 54 -
Annex G
Page 9 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11  12   13   14   15   16  Spec.TotaL
TOTAL POSITIONS FILLED: FEMALES
MINISTRIES:
Finance                               0    0    3    0   36   36    3  132   47   47    1   27   15   20    3    4    2   376
Secretary to the Treasury           0    0    3    0    0   28    0   15   13    6    1    7    0   11    3    2    1    90
Inland Revensue                     0    a    0    0   36    0    0   59   13   21    0    3   15    0    0    0    1   148
Custom & Excise                     0    0    0    0    0    7    3   21   19    2    0    3    0    0    0    1    0    56
Accountant GeneraL                  0    0    0    0    0    1    0   37    2   18    0   14    0    9    0    1    0    82
Public Works, Com. & Reg. Dev.    41   46    9    6    4    2    1    3    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   114
AgricuLture                          63   39   15   16   10    7    4    1    2    1    1    1    0    1    1    1    1   164
Head Office                        17   17    3    5    5    3    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    54
Hydromet                            8    1    4    2    0    2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    18
HydrauLics                          3    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0           6
Crops & Livestock                  19    6    0    7    0    0    2    0    1    0    1    1    0    1    1    1    0    40
Lands & Survey                     14   12    4    2    5    2    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    40
Fisheries                           2    1    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0           6
Legal Affairs                        54   56   14    4    6    5    1    5    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0   14   161
Head Office                         4    4    3    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    13
Supreme Court                      21   14    2    0    3    4    1    3.   0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    1    50
Magistrates                        23   31    6    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    3    65
Attorney Generat                    0    1    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    12
Oeeds Registry                      4    6    2    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    14
OfficiaL Receiver                   2    0    1    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    2           7
Health                              Z50 220  317   91   16  207  41   16  10   32    3    2    0    0    5    0    0 1210
Head Office                         8    7    3    4    3    2    0    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    31
National Hospitats                212  176  305   54    0  199   26    8    9   27    3    1    0    0    5    0    0  1025
Other HeaLth Programs              30   37    9   33   13    6   15    5    1    4    0    1    0    0    0    0    0   154
Hoam  Affairs                        98  440   81  120   45   15    2    4    3    1    4    1    0    1    0    0    1   816
Head Office                         7   16    6    0    3    2    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    37
GenraL Registrar Office             2    0   25    0    2    4    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    36
Police Department                   7  399   47  104   34    8    1    3    1    1    4    0    0    0    0    0    0   609
Prisons                            50    6    0    4    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    63
Fire Protection Services            3   17    0   10    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    32
NationaL Registration Centre       27    2    3    1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    36
Police ConpLaints Authority         2    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0           3
Trade, Tourism, & Industry            9    8    2    0    2    1    0    2    0    1    0   11    1    1    0    0    0    38
Office of the President               0    0    0    0    0   55    0   31   21    5    0   11    0   12    2    4    2   143
Foreign Affairs                       0    0   12    8    2    4   31    5    0   11    0    0    4    4    4    6    0    91
Labor, Human Serv., & SociaL Sec. 33   27    4    9    5    4    4   18    9    3    1    0    1    0    0    0    1   119
Education & CuLturaL DeveLopment  198  123   15    9   10    3    5   10    0   21   21    3    6    2    1    0    0   427
Head Office                        32   75    8    3    5    2    0    2    0    3    1    3    2    1    1    0    0   138
Nat. Centre for EducationaL Res  11    3    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    18
TechnicaL & Vocational Schools   19    6    2    1    1    0    0    7    0    5    7    0    2    0    0    0    0    50
Second., MuLtilat. & Commun.  Hi 57   18    0    0    0    0 0     0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    75
Teacher Training Institute         30   10    3    1    0    0    1    0    0   12   10    0    0    1    0    0    0    68
Department of Sports                8    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0           9
Department of Culture              15   11    2    3    3    1    2    0    0    1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    41
Practical Instruction Center       23    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    23
Craft Production Unit               3    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0           5
TotaL                                 746  959  472  263  136  339   92  227   92  125   31   57   27   41   16   15   21  3659
"Ctosed" Ministry Totat                 0    0   15    8   38   95   34  168   68   63    1   38   19   36    9   14    4   610
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 55 -
Annex G
Page 10 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT aY GS SCALE
 I----                                                  ---- -----  ----  ---- -----  ----  ----- ----  ---- _ ----  ---- -----  --- , ----
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Total
TOTAL POSITIONS FILLED: FEMALES (Cont.)
RESIONAL AOlMiNSTRATIXOS:
Region 1                              46   Z8    3    4    0    2    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    86
Ackninistration                     12    9    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    24
Education                            4    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                7
Aealth                              27   16    1    3    0    2    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    52
AgricuLture                          3    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0                 3
Region 2                              68   54   15    5    4   19    9    5    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   180
Acdinistration                      27   26    1    1    4    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    61
Education                            9   10    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    21
Heaeth                              30   18   13    4    0  .17    8    4    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    95
Agriculture                           2    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                3
Region 3                              102   43   31   18    2    1   12    8    0    5    0    1    1    0    0    0    0   224
Acririistration                     59   18    5    2    2    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    88
Education                            0    1    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0                 3
Peath                               40   24   26   14    0    0   12    6    0    5    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   127
AgricuLture                          3    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0                 6
Regicn 4                              131   32   10   24    6   16   16   11    0    1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0   250
Administration                      39   21    2    2    5    6    1    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    78
Education                           17    3    1    0    1    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    24
H'ealth    ,                        25     1    1   11    0   10   15    8    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    71
Agriculture                         50    7    6   11    0    0    0    0    0    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    77
Regicn 5                              120   29   30    2    2   15    3    8    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   211
Administration                      31   15    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    49
Education                           50    8    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    61
Health                              36    5   29    2    0   14    3    7    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    96
Agriculture                           3    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                5
Region 6                              119   82   85   29    6   66   13    8    3    6    3    0    0    0    0    0    0   420
Aaninistration                      40   19    6    1    5    3    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    76
Education                            16   10    0    0    1    0    1    1    0    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    31
Health                              56   43   78   25    0   63   12    6    3    5    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   291
Agriculture                           7   10    1    3    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    22
Region 7                               51   37    7    3    3    8    1    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0   112
Administration                      24   10    1    1    2    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    39
Education                             1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0               2
Health                              23   27    6    2    1    7    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    68
AgricuLture                           3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0               3
Region 8                                7   10    3    4    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    27
Adeinistration                       4    5    2    1    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    14
Education                            3    3    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0                8
Health                               0    2    0    2    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                4
Agriculture                          0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                 1
Region 9                               36   21     1    6    1    0    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    69
Administration                       10    7    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    18
Education                            3    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                3
Health                               16   14    1    6    0    0    4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    41
Agriculture                           7    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                7
Region 10                              32   31   12    7    2   11    7    2    1    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0   107
Administration                       15   17    2    0    2    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    38
Education                           12    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    15
Health                               5   13   10    7    0   10    7    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    54
Agriculture                           0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                0
Total                                   712  367  197  102   28  138   67   42    5   15    8    3    2    0    0    0    0  1686
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES:
Office of the Auditor GenraL            0    0    0    0    0    4    0   17    9   14    0   12   11    0    0    5    0    72
Office of the Ontudsman                 1    1    1    0    0    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                4
PubUic and Police Service Comm.         0    0    1    0    2    1    0    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                7
Parlaiment Office                       5    6    1    2    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    15
Public Prosecutions                     3    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    6    0    0    1    0    0    11
Public Service AppeLate Tribunat    1    0    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                    2
ELections Cramission                    3    3    1    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                8
Teaching Servic Comission              11    8    1    1    2    0    0    1    0    1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    25
Juciciat Service Comission          N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.  N.A.
rotat                                    24   18    5    6    4    6    0   21    9   16    0   18   11    0    1    5    0   144
Overalt Total                          1482 1344  674  371  168  48   159  290  106  156   39   78   40   41   17   20   21  5489
--      -      _   - _  -  _   -   _   -  _ -  _  -   _  -   _   -  _  -  _   -  _  -  _   -  _  -  _  -   _   -  _  -  _  -   _  -   _   -
Source: Governrent of Guyana, Public Service Management, Office of the President.



- 56 -
Annex G
Page I11 of 12
GUYANA: PuBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
t    2    3    4    5    6   ~ ~7'   8    9   10   11   12   13   14   1  6Se.oa
VACANCIES AS A PERCENT OF POSITIONS APPROVED
MINISTRIES:
F i anc e                            100  100   50    0   31   18   14   25   65   34   50   36   53   20   40   30   38    37
Secretary to the Treasury            0    a   50    0    a   1t    0    4   52   45    0   50  100   23   43   56   33    33
Inlend Revenue                       a    0    a    0   31    0    0   27   57    6    0   62   50   67    0    0   56    34
Customn & Excise                   100  100    a    0    0   29   14   39   56   60   57   30    0  100    0   14   22    42
Accountant Gen ral                   0    0    0    0    0  -0    0    5   91   27    0   19    a    5    0    0   so    39
Public Works, Corm.   Reg. Dev.    30   11   53   49   48   31   30   48    0   20  100  100    0    0   50    0  100    36
Agriculture                            17   16   34   42   22   39   56   67   33   20    6    0   33   17    0   33   50    28
Head Office                          3    5   42   30   25   33   50   25   50   33    0    0  100    0    0    0   50    21
Hydromet                            11   57   36   55   44   23   So    0    0    0   20    0    0    0    0    0    0    40
Hydraulics                          63   43   50   33  100  100   33    0    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    4
Crops & Livestock                   19    0   Z0   32    0  100   70    0   50    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    23
Lands & Survey                       5   13   30   43    0   SO   57  100    0    0    0    a   29   so    0  100    0    25
Fisheries                           43    0   33   67    0  100   50    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    0    35
LegaL Affairs                         21   38   49   38   61   41   20   50  100   33  100   50  100  100    0    0   38    40
Need Office                         36   60   63   50   75  100    0   50    0   so    0    0    0    0    a    0    0    55
Supreme Court                        9   34   35   40   73    0   50   50  100    0  100    0  100  100    0    0   67    36
Magistrates                         24   40   33    0   22    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   43    34
Atto mey General                     0    0    0   67    0  100    0    0    0    a    0  100    0    0    0    0   35    38
Deeds Registry                      36   25   So    0  100  100    0   50    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    59
Official Receiver                    0    0   80    0    0  100    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   33    39
Nealth                                23   34   31   46   42   45   53   53   62   62   60   38   50    0   46    0    0    39
Need offtca                         26   59   71   52   54   50   50   38    0   20    0    0   40    0    0    0    a    50
National Hospitals                  18   23   29   62   50   45   58   56   66   66   60   25   50    0   48    0    0    37
other Health Programs               48   40   52   17   38   43   49   SS   53   50   63   44  100    0   50    0    0    42
Hame Affairs                          49   39   15   13   25   21    6    8   17    7    0   67    0   50   33    0    0    33
Head Office                         31   30   70   67   25   40    0   813   50   33    0  100    a    0    0    0    0    46
Generat Registrar Office             0    a   10    0    0   20    0  100   50    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    13
Police Deprtment                    63   32    9   11   26   16    7    0   11    0    0    0    0    0   40    0    0    29
Prisons                              0   82   67   19   26   38    0   10    0   40    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    45
Fire Protection Services            43   70   50   20   17   31    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    54
Nation l Registration Centre         3   33   29    0    0  100    0    a    0    0    0    0    0  100  100    0    0    14
Police Coaplaints Authority          0    0  100    0    0  100    a    0    a    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    a    SO
Trade, Tourism, & IrKlustry            8   31   63  100   33   67   75    0    0   50    0    7    0   17   50    0    0    34
Office of the President               67   29    0   50    0   41    0   25   35   37    0   23    0   32   20   38   10    34
Foreign Affairs                      100    0   69   73   92   76   21   64    0   25    0    0   10    0    0    0    0    51
L.abor, Human Serv., & Sociat Sec.  16    9   33   10   44    0   47   40   17    0    0    0   14    0    0    0   50    21
Education & Cultural Devalopment   35   24   60   62   TO   58   52   38   92   37   51   63   42   45   20    0   67    42
Hiead Office                        25   16   57   57   71   6.4  86   57   88   18   75   63   SO   50    0    0   67    39
'Iat. Centre for EdJucational Res  27   27   88   50  100   33   40    0    0  100   92    0    0    0    0    0    0    61
Technical & Vocational Schools    9   24   62   78   78    0    0   is    0   26   21   50   33    0    0    0    0    30
-i-cond., Nultilat. 4 Cco"mun. Hi  21   31  100  100  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    32
Teacher Training Institute          17   48   50   67  100  100    0  100    0   42   46    0    0    0    a    0    0    38
Department of Sports                 9    0   50  100   33    0   50   44    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    35
Department of Culture               62   32   33   54   56   50    0    0  100   75   64  100   50  100  100    0    a    SS
Practical Instruction Center        69    a  100    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    69
Craft Production Unit                0    a    0    0   50    0  100    0  100    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    38
Total                                    34   36   34   29   36   37   39   31   56   41   45   36   35   25   30   19   37    36
"Closed" Ministry Total                  91   38   66   72   44   37   17   29   61   32   50   32   46   23   24   22   31    39
--   --- --- -- _--  .-- --     _---- --- -   --- -           _ - -_- -_- -   --- --   _ - --   _----   - - _  _-- --- -- -   -_ -_  .   _   --- --



- 57-
Annex G
Page 12 of 12
GUYANA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT BY GS SCALE
-- --  -- - --  -. -- -                                                         _,  ,-- -- -- -,,-- -- --,-- -- - -- --_-- --_ -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    a    9   10   lt   12   13   14   15   16  Spec.Totat
-- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - _- - -   -.--   -_               _- -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -
VACANCIES AS A PERCENT oF POSITIONS APPROVED (Cont.)
REGIONAL ADK1WISTRATIONS:
Region 1                               37   39   59   65   83   74   68  100   67  100   83  100  100    0    a    a    0    51
Administration                       40   40   50   60   80   75  100  100  100  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    so
Education                            63   57  100  100   50  1-00    0  100    0    0   67    a  100    0    a    0    0    69
iesith                               30   32    0   71    0   70   57  100   50  100    a  100    0    0    0    0    0    42
AgricuLture                          33  100  100   50  100   75  100  100    0    0  100  100  100    0    0    0    0    72
Region 2                               33   25   44   45   54   47   54   63  100   o3  100   75   50    0    0    0    0    39
Administration                       28   29   44   37   40   55   S0   71  100    a    0    a    0    0    0    a    0    34
Education                            12   17   67    0   67    0  100   50  100    0    0   so  100    0    0    0    a    28
Health                               12    9   40   67  100   38   48   67  100   83    0  100    a    0    0    0    0    37
AgricuLture                          50    0    0   38   71   86   so    0    0    0  100  100    a    0    0    0    0    51
Regtion 3                              17   28   38   42   78   50   44   50   88   33   20   43   335    0    a    a    0    31
Achinistration                       13   24   4.8   50   78   30   50   57  100   75    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    29
Education                            11   n5  100    a  100    o    o    o   50    0   25   67    0    0    0    0    0    27
Health                               29   24   21   35  100    0   47   54  100   24    0  100  100    0    0    0    0    34
Agriculture                           9   37   50   43   67   75    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    0    32
Region 4                               10   27   56   23   SS   35   48   40  100   58   60   86   50  100    0    0    0    27
Administration                        6   18   63   21   60   27   50   67  100   50  100    0    0    0    0    0    a    26
Educatio                             25    0    0    0   33    0  100    0  100    0   60   50  100    0    0    0    0    29
HeaLth                               27   88   as   27    0   29   47   27  10           3     0  100    0      0     0     0    0    44
AgricuLture                           2   23   38   22   50   63   50  100    0    0   50  100    0  100    0    0    a    is
Region 5                               21   30   30   8t   55   33   72   45  100   50    0   so  100    0    0    0    a    33
Administration                       22   25   n2   75   67   60  100   83  100   50    0    0    a    a    0    0    0    40
Education                             4   18    0    0    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0  100    0    0    0    0                 9
Health                                a    0    6   89    0   18   50   33  100   50    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    25
Agriculture                          58   65   29   60   67    0  100    0    a    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    59
Region 6                               42   40   19   29   52   18   51   46   50   41   50   67   80  100    0    0    a    38
AuMinistration                       29   34   52   60   59   50   60   22    0   25    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    38
Education                            45    7   so    0   75    0    0    0  100  , 0   50   67  100    0    0    0    0    41
Heatth                               40   38    S   22    0   11   53   64   40   43    0  100   67    0    0    0    0    31
Agriculture                          51   52   30   16   17   67   44    a  100    0   50  100  100  100    0    0    0    46
Region 7                               27   27   63   67   58   50   65   85  100   50   50   67   50    0    0    0    0    43
Acdministration                      26   25   81   58   75   40  100   80  100  100    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    42
Education                            33  100    0    0    0    0    0   75    0    0    a   50  100    0    0    0    a    50
Health                               31   23   25   67    0   50   62  100  100   40    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    39
Agricutture                          17   67   67   83   50  100   67    0    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    58
Region 8                               88   n2   70   69   40   83   57  100  100  100   50    0    0  100    0    0    0    78
Administration                       85   64   64   83   40   75    0  100  100  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    74
Education                            80   40  100   50    0    a    a  100    0    0   so    0    0    0    0    0    0    67
Health                              100   89    0   60    0    0   67    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    82
Agriculture                         100  100   75    a    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0  100    0    0    0    97
Region 9                               53   43   59   70   70   95   69   89  100  100  100  100  100    0    a    0    0    59
Admninistration                      41   53   73  100   71   75  100   75  100  100    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    57
Education                            84  100  100  100    a    0    0  100    0    0  100  100  100    0    0    0    0    as
Health                               55   30   43   54    0  100   62  100    0  100    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    54
Agriculture                          48   50   33   58   67  100  100    0    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    57
Region 10                              41   27   30   60   60   60   44   55   75  100   25   75             0    0    0    0    0    44
Administration                       10   lS   63   83   43   75    0   71  100  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    37
Education                            18   so  100    0   67    0    0   33  100    0    0   50    0    0    0    0    0    33
mealth                               29   19    0   so    0   55   31    0    0  100    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    36
Agriculture                          82   60   25   60   80   75  100    0    0    0   50  100    0    0    0    0    0    73
Total                                    31   34   40   47   61   42   54   57   82   57   53   68   57  100    0    0    0    39
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES:
Office of the Auditor General            0    0    0    0    0   14    0   40   47   32    0   60   26    0    0   17   29    37
Office of the Ombudsman                 0   50    0    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    29
Public and Police Service Comm          0    0   33  100   50   75    0   40    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    54
Parlaiment office                      25   25   80   40  100   50    0  100  100    0  100    a    0    0    0    0    0    53
Public Prosecutions                     0  100    0    0  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0  100    a    0    0    33
Public Service Appelate Tribunal   33  100    0   so  100    0    0    0    0    a    0    a    o    o    o    o    o    56'
Elections C onimission                -33    0    a    0    a   so    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0                 0
Teaching Service Commission             8   20   86   67   50  100    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    0    36
Judiciat Service Coamission          N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.  N.A.
Total                                     10   31   65   56   64   50    0   44   49   29  100   50   25  100   50   16   27    39
OveraLl Totat                             32   36   36   35   40   39   46   37   58   43   47   43   35   31'  31   18   36    37
. ... . . .   ._ . . . . . . .. . . .  . . ..._.      . . ..  . . .  . ...   ..  ._                     _.. .. . . . .. . .   . . . . .. . . . . . .
Source: Governm nt of Guya na, Public Service Management, Office of the President.



COSTS OF SALARIES AND WAGES BY PUBLIC ENTITY 1/
(GS Mitlions)
Min. of Total as X
Finance     of HOF
CS Scale                               1    2   3   4    5        6     7    8       9    10   11    12   13   14    15   16 Spec. Total Estimate   Estimate
MINISTRIES/DEPARTMENTS
Finance                            0.0   0.0  0.4  0.0  3.5   3.5   3.0  13.7   6.7   6.6   0.4   5.1   2.8   5.3   1.5  3.1   9.6  65.3  91.142             72
Secretary to the Treasury        0.0   0.0  0.4  0.0  0.0   2.1   0.0   1.4   1.2  0.5   0.1   0.8   0.0   2.5   1.3  0.9   2.4  13.7  20.808              66
Inland Revenue                  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  3.5   0.0   0.0   5.7   1.2   2.8   0.0   0.5   2.8   0.1   0.0   0.0   2.4  19.1  29.908             64
Custom & Excise                  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   1.3   3.0   3.4   3.9   1.4   0.3   1.5   0.0   0.0   0.2   1.3  4.2  20.4  24.326             84
Accountant Generat               0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1   0.1   3.2   0.5   1.9   0.0   2.2   0.0   2.7   0.0   0.9  0.6  12.1  16.100             75
Public Works, Comm. & Reg. Dev.   2.0   3.0  0.7  1.1  0.6   0.5   0.5   1.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6  0.5   0.0  10.7  15.510              69
Agriculture                        4.0   2.2  2.3  2.4  1.4   1.0   1.1  0.2   0.3   0.4   1.8   0.4   1.1   0.8   2.2   0.5   0.6  22.6  28.030             81
Head Office                      1.1   0.8  0.3  0.3  0.3   0.2   0.1  0.2   0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.6   4.7   5.370             88
Hydromet                         0.3   0.1  0.6  0.7  0.3   0.6   0.3   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   3.6           2/
Hydraulics                       0.1   0.2  0.1  0.1  0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.0   1.5   5.882             25
Crops & Livestock                1.6   0.4  0.4  1.0  0.0   0.0  0.2   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.8   0.1   0.0   0.7   1.0  0.2   0.0   6.6   9.486              69
Lands & Survey                   0.7   0.6  0.6  0.2  0.8   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.5   0.0   0.7   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.8   5.800            83
fisheries                       0.2   0.1  0.3  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.1  0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   1.4   1.492              94
Legat Affairs                      2.8   2.8  1.8  0.4  0.9   0.8   0.3   0.4   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.1  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  19.8  30.3  25.840            117
Head Office                      0.3   0.2  0.1 0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.6   1.4   0.928              155
Supreae Court                    1.1  0.8  1.1 0.1  0.3   0.6  0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.6   5.1   6.160                 82
Magistrates                      1.0   1.5  0.4  0.0  0.4   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   7.2  10.9  10.252           107
Attorney Generat                 0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.0   9.3   5.150           181
Deeds Registry                   0.3   0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   2.0   1.974           100
Officiat Receiver                0.1   0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   1.6   1.376           116
Health                            14.9  14.1 17.4  8.2  2.6  17.3   5.8   2.7   2.0  10.6   2.9   1.5   0.9   0.3   2.7   0.0   0.0 104.0  97.506           107      1
Head Office                     0.5   1.2  0.2  0.5  0.3   0.2  0.1   0.4   0.0   0.7   0.1   0.0   0.7   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.0   5.6  11.376              49
Nationat Hospitals              12.6   8.6 16.6  3.4  0.1  16.1   2.4   0.8   1.3   7.7   1.7  0.6   0.3   0.0   2.2   0.0   0.0  74.3  57.608            129    co
Other Heatth Program             1.8  4.4  0.5  4.2  2.2   1.0  3.3   1.5   0.7   2.2   1.0  0.9   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0  24.1  28.522               84
Home Affairs                      12.0  70.6 10.7 27.5 17.0   9.0   1.0   5.9   1.7   3.9   2.6  0.1   2.1   0.2   1.2   0.2   0.6 166.4 270.214             62
Head Office                     0.4   0.6  0.3  0.0  0.2   0.2   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6   2.7   3.480              77
Generat Registrar Office         0.1   0.0  1.2  0.0  0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0   2.040            100
Police Department               6.5  65.3  8.9 23.4 12.7   7.1   0.9   5.1   1.4   2.7   1.9  0.0   1.8   0.0   0.6   0.2   0.0 138.7 226.738              61
Prisons                          3.5   1.5  0.0  1.9  2.6   0.9   0.0   0.7   0.0   0.3   0.4   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0  12.1 22.408             54
Fire Protection Services        0.2   3.0  0.0  2.1  1.3   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7   0.3   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   8.6  12.402             69
Nationat Registration Centre    1.3   0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0   1.716            117
Police Cowplaints Authority      0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0  0.0   0.3   1.430             22
Trade, Tourism. & Industry         0.4   0.4  0.1  0.0  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1  0.0   1.7   0.8   0.8   0.2   0.0   1.2   6.2   7.364             84
Office of the President            0.1  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0   4.7   0.0   3.0   2.0   1.1   0.0   2.8   0.0   3.8   0.8   1.1  5.4  25.0  44.944              56
Foreign Affairs                   0.0   0.0  0.8  0.5  0.1   0.2   2.8   1.0   0.0   2.5   0.0   0.0   1.1   1.3   1.6   2.9   0.0  14.9 183.794              8
Labor, Huaan Serv., Sociat Sec.   1.5   1.6  0.3  0.4  0.5   0.5   0.5   1.8   1.7   0.8   0.1   0.4   0.8   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.6  11.9  12.422             96
Education & Cuttural Development 9.7   6.4  1.6  1.2  0.9   0.5   0.7   1.8  0.1   5.3   5.7   1.4   1.0   1.0   0.8   0.2   0.6  39.1 100.832               39
Head Office                      1.7   3.6  0.8  0.3  0.3   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.8   0.1   0.8   0.4   0.5   0.8   0.2   0.6  11.6  25.028            47
Nat. Centre for Ed. Resource    0.4   0.3  0.0 0.1  0.0   0.1   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.7   2.182              76
Technical & Vocational Schools  1.1   0.6  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.8   0.0   2.3   2.8   0.6   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.4  12.498             75
Second., Mult. 4 Commai. Sch.   2.9   0.8  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.7  48.590              8
Teacher Training Institute       1.5   0.5  0.1  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   2.1   2.1   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.5   9.790             67
Department of Sports             0.4   0.0  0.1  0.0  0.2   0.0   0.1   0.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.5
Department of CuLture            0.7   0.5  0.4  0.6  0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.4   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.3
Practicat Instruction Center    1.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0   2.744             35
Craft Production Unit            0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3                           ;
total  3/                             47   101   36  42   28    38    16   32    15    32    13   13   11  13.5  11.8  8.8  38.4 496.3 877.598               56.6     g
.------------.-.----.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
O 



COSTS OF SALARIES AND WAGES BY PUBLIC ENTITY 1/
(GS Millions)
Min. of   Total as %
Finance     of MOF
GS Scale                               1    2    3    4    5      6      7     8     9    10   11   12    13   14   15   16 Spec. Total Estimate   Estimate
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIONS
Region 1                           3.4   2.3  0.5  0.6  0.1   0.4   0.6   0.0   0.1   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.1  23.436           34.4
Administration                   1.2   0.9  0.4  0.3  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.9   7. 778         37.6
Education                        0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5  10.200             5.0
Heatth                           1.6   1.3  0.1  0.2  0.0   0.2   0.6   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.2   4.568          91.2
Agriculture                      0.3   0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5   0.890          52.1
Region 2                           8.5   4.7  1.9  1.7  0.6   2.1   1.4   0.8   0.0   0.3   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  22.4 113.842           19.7
Administration                   3.2   3.4  1.1  0.6  0.5   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.3  13.256          70.3
Education                        0.8   0.4  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.7  71.814            2.3
Health                           1.9   0.9  0.8  0.3  0.0   1.7   1.1   0.4  0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   7.4  22.694           32.8
Agriculture                      2.5   0.0  0.0  0.8  0.1   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0   6.078          65.1
Region 3                          9.3   4.7  2.7  2.1  0.3   0.5   2.7   1.0   0.1   2.0   0.4   0.5   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  26.5 115.898           22.9
Aduinistration                  4.9   2.6  1.0  0.5  0.2   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  10.2  13.258           77.1
Education                       0.9   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.8  73.424             2.4
Health                          2.3   1.2  1.5  0.9  0.0   0.0   2.1   0.6   0.0   1.9  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  10.6  23.134            45.9
Agriculture                      1.1   0.9  0.2  0.6  0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.4   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.9   6.082           64.2
Region 4                          13.2   4.9  1.6  2.8  0.5   1.6   2.7   1.7   0.0   0.6   0.4   0.1  0.1  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  30.4 118.080            25.8
Administration                  4.2   2.7  0.7  0.7  0.3   0.7   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  10.0   9.454          106.1
Education                        1.3  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.2  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.2  84.106             2.7
Health                           1.5  0.1  0.1  0.7  0.0   0.8   2.1   1.2   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.9  14.746           47.0
Agriculture                     6.2   1.9  0.8  1.4  0.1   0.2   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  11.2  9.774           114.8
Region 5                          6.8   2.5  2.0  0.3  0.3   1.4   0.7   1.1   0.0   0.4   0.5   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  16.2  59.604           27.1 
Administration                  2.0   1.6  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.2   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.4   5.660           77.8    tn
Education                       2.0   0.4  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.2  39.506            8.0     t
Health                          2.1   0.3  1.6  0.1  0.0   1.1   0.7   0.9   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   7.1  13.104           53.9
AgricuLture                     0.7   0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.5   1.334          113.7
Region 6                          9.4   6.3  5.5  3.2  0.7   6.9   3.3   1.7   0.5   2.1   0.5   0.2   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  40.7 188.266           21.6
Administration                  2.5   1.9  0.6  0.4  0.4   0.4   0.1   0.5   0.2   0.3   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   7.5   9.000           83.0
Education                        1.4   0.5  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.8 109.776           2.5
Health                          2.9  2.1  4.2  1.5  0.0   6.4   2.7   0.9   0.4   1.8  0.0   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  23.1  57.726             40.1
Agriculture                      2.7   1.7  0.6  1.3  0.3   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   7.3  11.764          61.8
Region 7                          3.2   2.0  0.5  0.5  0.3   0.8   0.5   0.1   0.0   0.4   0.1  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.8  19.252            45.6
Administration                   1.9   0.6  0.1  0.2  0.1   0.2   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.2   3.158         102.0
Education                       0.2   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.1  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5  9.184               5.5
Health                           1.0   1.4  0.3  0.2  0.1   0.6   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.5   5.818           76.8
Agriculture                      0.2   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6   1.092          53.7
Region 8                          0.4   0.6  0.3  0.2  0.2   0.1  0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.3   6.302             36.4
Administration                   0.3   0.4  0.2  0.0  0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   1.686          70.8
Education                       0.1   0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7  3.216             20.2
Health                          0.0   0.1  0.0  0.1  0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   1.210           33.4
Agriculture                      0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.190          23.4
Region 9                           2.9   2.4  0.4  0.8  0.2   0.1   0.5   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   7.3  11.202          64.8
Administration                   1.3   0.9  0.1  0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.6   2.714          94.5
Education                        0.2   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   3.248           4.7
Health                          0.9   1.5  0.2  0.4  0.0   0.0   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.4   3.962           85.6
Agriculture                      0.5   0.1  0.1  0.4  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   1.278          90.2
Region 10                          2.0   1.6  0.8  0.6  0.3   0.9   0.8   0.4   0.1   0.0   0.3  0.1   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.3  43.150           19.3
Administration                   0.7   0.9  0.1  0.0  0.2   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.2   2.906          75.3
Education                        0.9   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.2  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.6  34.840             4.6
Health                          0.2   0.6  0.5  0.4  0.0   0.8   0.8   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.7   4.462           82.0     na
Agriculture                     0.2   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.9   0.942             95.8    to
Total                              59.1  32.0 16.2 12.8  3.5  14.8  13.4   6.9   0.9   5.9  2.5   1.6   1.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 170.9 699.032            24.4    1 
0



COSTS OF SALARIES AND WAGES BY PUBLIC ENTITY 1/
(GS Millions)
Min. of   Total as X
GS Scale                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance  of MOF
GS ScaLe                                1     2    3    4    5      6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16 Spec. Totat Estimate   Estimate
CONSTITUTIONAL AGENCIES
Office of the Auditor GerneraL      0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.4   0.0   1.3   1.6   2.0   0.0   2.0   4.1   0.0   0.0   4.6   6.0  22.0  19.782             111.2
Office of the Ombudsman             0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.478              49.4
Public and Police Service Comm.   0.0   0.0  0.1  0.0  0.2   0.1   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7   3.798                19.0
Parlaiment Office                  0.2   0.2  0.0  0.1  0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7  11.812                6.1
Public Prosecutions                 0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.0   1.5   3.122              49.5
Pubtic Service Appetate Tribunat  0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   1.350                19.7
Elections Commission               0.2   0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   5.652                7.6
Teaching Service Commission        0.4   0.3  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6   1.8   1.378              129.8
Total                                 1.1   0.7  0.3  0.3  0.3   0.5   0.0   1.8   1.6   2.2   0.0   3.0   4.2   0.0   0.2   4.9   6.6  27.7  47.372              58.5
Overalt Total                       107.4 134.1 52.6 55.0 31.4  53.4  29.3  40.3  17.0  40.1  16.0  18.0  16.3  13.5  11.9  13.6  45.0 694.9  1624.0              42.8
Adjusted Pu.blic Service Totat (GS Millions) 4/                                                                                             694.9   835.9         83.1
Adjusted Public Service Total (USS Mittions)                                                                                                  5.6     6.7
Source: Goverrment of Guyana, Public Service Management, Office of the President.
1/ Cost estimates are based on the midpoint for each grade of the official GS satary scate for all public entities except the Ministries of finance
and Office of the President for which actual averages of sataries in each grade were used.
2/ Provisions for Hydromet are included under the Hydrautics Department.
3/ Employment cost estimates for the Ministries exclude the costs of the Nursery Schools and Primary Schools under the
Ministry of Education and the Civit Aviation Department uider the Ministry of Pubtic Works for which staff tist information are not available.                           E
4/ Excludes the enptoyment costs of teachers estimated to be GS788.06 mittion (USS6.3 mittion) for the 10,028 teachers.
0






- 61 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 1
Capital Expenditures for General Administrative Strengthening
InDuts
Total budget                                                     US$4,000,000
Transport equipment                                              US$1,275,000
4 wheel drive vehicles @ $16,000              $ 700,000
Cars @ $17,500                                $ 190,000
Outboard engines @ $8,300                     $ 325,000
Motorcycles @ $4,000                           $  60,000
Computer Equipment                                               US$ 570,000
Personal Computers @ $5,000                   $ 500,000
Software, installation, stabilizers            $ 70,000
Communications Equipment                                         US$1,105,000
Telephone Lines and Equipment                 $1,000,000
Radios @ $2,500                                $  5,000
Facsimile Machines @ $800                      $  14,000
Transmission & Radio Equipment                 $ 56,000
PABX Systems @ $15,000                         $  30,000
Office Equipment                                                 US$1,050,000
Furniture, Office Furnishings                 $1,000,000
Air Conditioners @ $800                        $  30,000
Fire Tenders @ $10,000                         $ 20,000






- 62 -
Annex J
Page 1 of 1
Total Financing by Project Component and
Expenditure Category
(USS Millions)
Proposed Financing
Govt. of
IDA   Guyana       Total
I.    Upgrading of the Salary Structure"                    10 0
II.   Public Sector Management Strengthening                            2-1
A. Integrated Financial Management           4.0                  4.0
Goods                                     1.5                 1.5
Consultants                               2.5                 2.5
B. Regional Administrations System            1.0                 1.0
Goods                                     0.3                 0.3
Consultants                               0.7                 0.7
C. Personnel Management                      0.5                  0.5
Goods                                     0.2                 0.2
Consultants                               0.3                 0.3
D. General Administration                    4.0                  4.0
Goods                                     4.0                 4.0
III.   Recruitment Program         ,1                                   1.
Consultants                              0.1                  0.1
Travel Expenses, Shipping
Costs & Relocation Grants                1.7                  1.7
IV.   Coordinating Unit                             0.7                 0:7
Goods                                     0.1                 0.1
Consultants                               0.6                 0.6
Total:             12.0    102
Total Costs of Goods                          6.1                 6.1
Total Costs of Consultants                    4.2                 4.2
Total Travel, Shipping, Reloc. Grants         1.7                 1.7






Atnachment I
Page 1 of 5
GUYANA
PUBUC ADMINiSTRATION CREDIT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PART U: Public Sector Management Strengthening
MAIN GOVERNMENT          |      PROJECT COMPONENT         | INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS |                EXPECTED            |         TIMING TARGETS
OBJECTIVES           I           ACTIVmES                    AND RESPONSIBILITIES       |        OUTPUT/IMPACT             ISTARTING/COMPLETION DATES)
A. Integrated Rnancial Management
Develop the basis for effective  a. Consulting services to develop    a. Ministry of Finance involving  a. Output: Norms, procedures  a. Starting date: February 1993
and efficient budgeting.        norms, procedures and functional   the Secretary to the Treasury, the    and functional systems for all key   Completion date: December 1994
accounting, cash management,    systems for key financial         Accountant General Department,    financial management activities.
internal control and external   management activities,            the Office of the Budget and the    Impact: Clearly defined
control; end for improved                                         Auditor General Office,          practices and responsibilities for
management of revenue                                                                              public financial management.
collections.
b. Consulting services, software    b. Ditto                       b. Output: Availability of      b. Starting date: February 1993
and hardware to design awd                                         accurate end updated public     Completion date: June 1995
implement an integrated,                                           accounts end detailed financial
decentralized, budgeting and                                      information.
accounting information system,                                       Impact: A financial
involving all entities of the Central                              management that can be held
Government.                                                        accountable. 
c. Training for staff of all key  c. Ditto                         c. Output: Trained the relevant    c. Starting date: January 1994
financial management offices and                                   staff in all entities of the Central    Completion date: June 1995
all responsible units in the Central                               Government.
Government.                                                          Impact: Adequate application
of new financial management
principles and methods ensuring
reliability of tha naw system.
d. Consulting services, software  d. Inland Revenue and Customs    d. Output: Computerized         d. Starting date: February 1993
and hardware to adapt and        and Excise Departments            Collection Management Systems   Completion date: March 1994
establish revenue collection                                      in both entities
management systems.                                                  Impact: Increased tax and
customs collections



Atachment I
Page 2 of 5
GUYANA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CREDIT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PART II: Public Sector Management Strengthening
MAIN GOVERNMENT                  PROJECT COMPONENT            INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                   EXPECTED                      TIMING TARGETS
OBJECTIVES                        A CTIVITIES                  AND RESPONSIBILITIES                 OUTPUT/IMPACT             ISTARTING/COMPLETION DATESI
B. Regional Administrations System
Improving the effectiveness of   a. International consultants to    a. Office of the President - PSM,    a. Output: Review and redesign    a. Starting date: March 1993
service delivery activities currently  review and analyze present   Ministries of Finance. Public     of the institutional arrangements    Completion date: September 1994
delivered by the Regional        operational systems for planning,    Works, Communications end       and operational procedures for
Administrations                  execution and monitoring of        Regional Development iMPWCRD).  deiegation of service delivery to
programs. Consultants will also   Agriculture, Health and Education.   tha Regional Administrations.
assist the Government in
articulating a role for the RAs vis-                                   Impact: Groundwork for a
a-via ministries and design                                         more efficient utilization of scarce
appropriate norms, procedures and                                   managerial resources in the                                            I
systems to implement efficient                                      delivery of services crucial to the                                    a,
service delivery.                                                   successful of the ERP.
b. Consultants to assist in the   b. Ditto                          b. Output: Implementation of      b. Starting date: September 1993
implementation of the new                                            the redesigned institutional     Completion data: June 1995
system,                                                              arrangements and operational
procedures.
Impact: Efficient utilization of
scarce managerial resources in
the deliverv of services in key
social sectors and economic
infrastructure.
c. Training programs for staff in    c. Ditto                       c. Output: Trained staff of       c. Starting date: July 1994
ralevant ministries and RAs to                                      reievant ministries and the       Completion date: June 1995
understand and operate the new                                       Regional Administrations.
systems.
Impact: Batter understanding
amongst staff of the operation of
the redesigned systems and
technological proficiency needed
to operate the required
information technology.



Attachment I
Page 3 of 5
GUYANA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CREDIT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PART Il: Public Sector Management Strengthening
MAIN GOVERNMENT                 PROJECT COMPONENT            INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                 EXPECTED                      TIMING TARGETS
OBJECTIVES                        ACTIVITIES                  AND RESPONSIBILITIES               OUTPUTIIMPACT            (STARTING/COMPLETION DATESI
d. Computer hardware and         d. Ditto                          d. Output: Computers and        d. Starting date: December 1993
software in the Regional                                           software installed in each of the    Completion date: June 1995
Administrations to support modern                                 regional headquarters.
information systems.
Impact: Efficient and effective
monitoring and control.
C. Personnel Management
Development of a modern         a. Consu!tant services, training,  a. PSM/OP in coordination with  a. Output: A basic personnel     a. Starting date: September 1992
personnel management system for  hardware, and software to design    personnel manager in all major  record sVstem providing detailed    Completion date: April 1993
the Public Service.             and implement a basic personnel    entities of the Public Service.  information on approved and
records system.                                                    budgeted positions, positions
filled, vacancies, and salaries.                                   0"
Impact: An accountable
personnel management.
b. Consultant services, training,  b. Ditto                        b. Output: Effective            b. Starting date: May 1993
hardware, and software to                                         employment policies and          Completion date: February 1995
establish a comprehensive public                                   personnel administration system.
service policy and administration                                  Creation of Manpower Policy
system.                                                            Unit.
Impact: Increased qualitV of
Public Servants and higher
productivity of the Public Service.



Attachment I
Page 4 of 5
GUYANA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CREDIT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PART Il: Public Sector Management Strengthening
MAIN GOVERNMENT                 PROJECT COMPONENT           INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                  EXPECTED                      TIMING TARGETS
OBJEC7IVES                       ACTIVITIES                   AND RESPONSIBILITIES               OUTPUT/IMPACT            1STARTING/COMPLETION DATES)
D. General Administration
Improve support to management    a. Acquisitions of administrative,    a. State Planning Secretariat and    a. Output: Availability of  a. Starting data: March 1993
of fundamental public sector     computer, communications, and    Ministry of Finance in Coordination  indispensable equipment of   Completion date: June 1997
operational functions.           transportation equipment for     with the beneficiarV public entities.  operational functions.
selected operational programs of
ministries and regional                                              Impact: Improve provision of
administrations.                                                  public services in the supported
operational programs.
0"



Attachment I
Page 5 of 5
GUYANA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CREDIT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PART I1 Public Sector Management Strengthening
MAIN GOVERNMENT          |      PROJECT COMPONENT           INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                  EXPECTED                      TIMING TARGETS
OBJECTIVES                       ACTIVITIES                  AND RESPONSIBILITIES                OUTPUTfiMPACT          ] ISTARTING/COMPLETION DATESI
Public Sector Recruitment Progitim
Fill selected key and other critical   a. Promotion & edvertising,  a. Department of International  a. Output: Development of      Starting Date; January 1993
positions in the Public Service  management, interview and        Economic Cooperation, Ministry of   computerized system for roster of  Completion date: December 1994
with aim of strengthening       selection.                        Finance, Public Service          applicants, a skills bank, job
managerial capacity                                               Management, and the Public       descriptions/announcement, and
Service Commission,              desk top publishing.
Impact: Effective and efficiant
procedure whereby to reach
qualified expatriates and to
systematically evaluate & match                                     a
candidates to job requirements. 
Expected responses from
qualified individuals for
adequately filling 50 key
positions
b. Incentive package for         b. Ditto                         b. Output: Effective in ttrecting   Starting Date: July 1993
recruitment,                                                      applicants & filling key and     Completion date: Lump sum portion
critical positions in the Public  of incantive package to be
Service with appropriate        disbursed in 1996 and 1997 lend
candidates                      of 3-year minimum term of
employment).
Impact: Improved Public
Sector Management.






- 68 -
Attachment II
Page 1 of 2
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Integrated Fmancial Management
Timely provision of accurate accounting information to assure compliance with
the preparation of official annual accounts.
Reduction in nonbudgeted and unaccounted for expenditures within the
Ministries, Departments, and Regional Administrations (RAs) [50 percent
reduction by mid-term evaluation; and 100 percent reduction by completion of
the Project.]
Increased tax and customs collections [100 percent by the mid-term evaluation;
and 200 percent by completion of the Project.]
Regional Administrations' System
Timely and periodical reports, with accuracy, of qualitative and quantitative
measures of service delivery by each RA.
*    Increased collection of tariffs for services provided by the RAs [collections
should represent at least 50 percent of the costs of services (samples) by the
mid-term evaluation, and at least 80 percent by completion of the Project.]
Personnel Management
Implementation of new personnel grading system and agreed salary structure
for the public service, including the elimination of all employment and salary
regimes outside the formal grading system.
Achievement of target compression ratios, and grading system composition of
the public service [the compression ratio should be at least 9:1 for levels 1
through 16, and 16:1 for levels 1 through Special.]
Cancellation of all existing vacancies in grading system levels 1 through 5 at
the time of implementation of the new salary scale; and freezing, or
cancellation, of all new vacancies in the same levels throughout the life of the
Project.



- 69 -
Attachment H
Page 2 of 2
General Administration
Increased provision of services in selected operational programs (sample)
covering the principal beneficiaries of the component (e.g., maintenance
services in drainage and irrigation, availability of educational materials, and
textbooks).
Recruitment Program
-     Number of applications received in response to promotion activity; number of
candidates screened and shortlisted.
Number of positions staffed; retention rate of the program; attrition.



- 70 -
Attachment m
Page 1 of 3
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Background
Current Government of Guyana (GOG) efforts to improve economic performance
began in 1988 and have seen substantial progress. However, financial management and
expenditure control systems in the Central Government and Regional Administrations (RAs)
are an amalgam of incremental and fragmented decision rules and financial management
structures, resulting in an inability to control expenditures effectively. First, key
management functions are inappropriate: budgeting does not correspond with an integrated
program and is only done on the basis of previous expenditures; accounting has been
neglected to cash management; and treasury decisions are neither based on a cash flow
program, nor on portfolio options. Second, the accounting system broke down in 1981 and
since then no official financial statements of the public sector have been produced. In fact,
actual recording of accounts is not currently taking place, and the system is intended to be
reestablished in an overly centralized form, with all bookkeeping to be done by the
Accountant General Department of the Ministry of Finance. Third, the audit of accounts is
not possible and, therefore, control is ineffective. Fourth, the management of revenues by
the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise Departments lacks a system to enforce timely
compliance and monitor tax and customs administration.
Objectives
There is an urgent need to rebuild the financial management system of Guyana. In
rebuilding public financial management, a longer-term process of institutional reform and
development is required. The principal objective of Government is to develop a sound basis
for effective budgeting, accounting, cash management, and internal and external control. As
a first stage of that process assistance efforts should focus on the reestablishment of the
accounting system. The principle guiding the new system should be that actual responsibility
for the handling of financial resources by the various public entities must also imply
responsibility for the preparation of sound accounting records. Under this principle a
decentralized approach must be adopted. In the revenue side, and in close coordination with
the IDB-financed technical assistance project, systems for the management of the collection
will be adapted and established in the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise Departments.



- 71 -
Attachment Em
Page 2 of 3
Activities
The proposed assistance contemplates several key activities that focus on the core
system of financial management, including:
(a)  A review of extant norms, procedures, functional systems, and institutional
arrangements for financial management as an initial priority.
(b)  The provision of consultant services to develop norms, procedures, and
functional systems for key financial management activities.
(c)  The provision of consultant services, software, and hardware to design and
implement an integrated, decentralized budgeting and accounting information
system involving all agencies of the Central Government.
(d)  The provision of training for staff in all key financial management offices and all
responsible units in the Central Government.
(e)  The development of computerized collection management systems in the Inland
Revenue and Customs and Excise Departments.
Outputs
The outputs for the various activities contemplated under the proposed technical
assistance must be seen as interactive. The principal output for this component is a financial
management system based on consistent and modern norms, procedures, and functional
systems that can be held accountable. Key outputs include:
(a)  A detailed report on the state of extant norms, procedures, functional systems,
and institutional arrangements with appropriate recommendations for each of
these and the introduction of appropriate legislation and implementation,
including modifications to the Financial Administration and Audit Act.
(b)  The integrated budget and accounting system will be made operational such that
accurate and updated public accounts and detailed financial information within
the ministries, the relevant budget and accounting offices within the Ministry of
Finance, and the office of the Auditor General will be accessible.
(c)  Installation and implementation of use of computerized financial management
system and network within MOF.
(d)  Effective trained personnel in all entities of the Central Government.
(e)  Installation and implementation of computerized collection management systems
in the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise Departments.



- 72 -
Attachment m
Page 3 of 3
Institutional Arrangements
The counterpart entity for this component will be the Ministry of Finance, and
beneficiary entities include the offices of accounting, subtreasury, audit, and budget within
the individual Ministries, RAs, the Office of the Auditor General, Semi-Autonomous
Agencies, and the Constitutional Agencies.
Timetable for Implementation
Project activities will begin in February 1993 and will continue throughout the life of
the project through June 1995. Specific timing for each activity is provided in the Matrix of
Key Project Activities (Attachment I).






_ 73 -
Attachment IV
Page 1 of 3
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIONS SYSTEM
Background
Significant systemic weaknesses exist in the present arrangements for delegation of
responsibilities to the Regional Administrations (RAs). In particular, the systems and
operational procedures for program planning, staffing, management, reporting and
accountability both within the RAs and between the RAs and the central policy making
ministries are presently inadequately or inappropriately designed to ensure efficient service
delivery with adequate accountability. The existence of these systemic weaknesses at the
institutional level imply that the present arrangements are unlikely to function effectively,
even if the resource bottlenecks were to ease in the short to medium term. Immediate action
is required towards the creation of a more effective system of management at the regional
level, as the present responsibilities of the RAs in the social and economic infrastructure
sectors are critical to the success of the Economic Recovery Program of the government.
Objectives
To improve the managerial efficiency and effectiveness of the service delivery
functions currently delivered by the RAs by designing appropriate institutional structures,
systems and operational procedures for efficiency and accountability. To set in place the
systems and processes for a modem information system for the delivery of services in the
regions as a basis for enhancing the revenue effort of the govemment.
Activities
A phased approach will be adopted for the achievement of these objectives. Phase 1
will consist of a diagnostic review of the present system. Funds from a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) are being sought for the immediate commencement of this review. Phase 2
will consist of the articulation of the role of the RAs by the Govemment and the design and
implementation of a new system of regional management, including the provision of
complementary training and equipment. The activities associated with these phases are
described below:
(a) Review of the present system. A team of consultants will undertake an
analytical review of the present functions of the RAs, the operational and
information systems in place for the planning, execution and monitoring of
programs, links to the central systems, sources and adequacy of resources,
delegation of responsibilities and the lines of accountability to ministries and



- 74 -
Attachment IV
Page 2 of 3
RDCs. This diagnostic study will also present options for alternative systems of
regional management. This review will cover all the present functions of the
RAs, including but not limited to:
-    The operation of the school system, construction and maintenance of
educational infrastructure, provision of educational equipment and
textbooks.
-    The operation of different aspects of the health system, construction and
maintenance of medical buildings, provision of medical equipment and
medicines etc.
-    Construction, operation and maintenance of economic infrastructure in
roads, river and sea defenses, drainage and irrigation and water.
-    General administration of the region.
(b) Articulation of role of RAs. The articulation, by the Government, of a policy
statement on the role of the RAs in relation to the ministries, including the
definition of responsibilities and the identification of sources of revenues.
(c) Design and implementation of a new system for regional management. Based
on this policy statement, consultants will design appropriate institutional
structures, systems and operational procedures for efficient and accountable
management at the regional level and assist the government in implementation of
these new systems. Special attention will also be given to the systems for
maintaining information management systems for monitoring services at the
regional level. Where feasible, these information systems would be
computerized and would serve as the basis for improving the systems of revenue
collection and cost recovery.
(d) Training. Training would be provided for staff in relevant ministries and RAs
to understand the new systems and for skills development for operating new
systems and associated technology.
(e) Acquisition of Equipment. This component will also assist in the acquisition of
equipment for improved communications between RAs and ministries and within
regions, and for monitoring and developing information systems for provision of
services at the regional levels. The acquisition of necessary equipment for the
RAs under this component is being augmented by the acquisition of additional
equipment for the RAs under the General Administration component.
Outputs
(a) Consultants' report reviewing and analyzing the institutional arrangements and
operational procedures for the delegation of service delivery to RAs.



- 75 -
Attachment IV
Page 3 of 3
(b)  Statement of policy intent on part of Government on the role of the RAs and
RDCs in relation to Central Government.
(c)  Redesign of new institutional structures, systems and operational procedures for
strengthening the management of the regions.
(d)  Implementation of the new institutional structures, systems and operational
procedures with
-    a clear definition of responsibilities for the delivery of services in the
health, education and infrastructure sectors,
-    working operational procedures at all levels of administration for the
management of different responsibilities at the regional level,
-    institutionalized processes for determining standards of service delivery and
the identification of resources for delivering these.
(e)  Creation and maintenance of information systems for monitoring the delivery of
services as a basis for enhancing cost recovery.
(f)  Skills development for staff in relevant ministries and regions.
(g)  Availability of necessary equipment at the regional level.
Institutional Arrangements
The overall coordination and implementation of the RAs System component will be the
responsibility of the Office of the President - Public Service Management. A Steering
Committee would also be set up consisting of the Ministries of Finance, Public Works,
Communications and Regional Development, Agriculture, Health and Education to provide
inputs to OP-PSM from a sectoral perspective.
Timetable for Implementation
Report of the diagnostic study                                             June 1993
Policy statement on part of the Government                            September 1993
Approval of an implementation plan                                      October 1993
Completion of implementation                                                July 1995
Specific timing for each activity is provided in the Matrix of Key Project Activities
(Attachment I).






- 76 -
Attachment V(a)
Page 1 of 2
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMIISTRATION REPORT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
PHASE 1: RECORDS KEEPING SYSTEM
Background
In order for a consistent, transparent, and equitable personnel system to be effective
there is a need for adequate records and flows of information. Personnel information records
provide the basic data on the workforce that is required for many functions of management.
Public Service Management (PSM) lacks a system for maintaining accurate and updated
information on approved posts, budgeted positions, number of employees, training and career
development, and salary and benefits in the public service. As a result public officers
responsible for personnel management at different levels are not held accountable. Under
these constraints, the fundamental aspects of personnel policy and administration, including
the design of the public service salary scale and recruitment strategy, can not be adequately
managed.
Objectives
The objectives of proposed assistance under Phase 1 is to assist in the continued
development of a devolved computer based personnel records system that will provide access
to information on individual staff at each Ministry/Regional Administrations (RAs)/
Constitutional Agency and aggregate information on staff for overall management purposes
within Ministries, PSM in the Office of the President, and the Public Service Commission
(PSC).
Activities
Proposed assistance is intended to support several activities under Phase 1, including:
(a)  Review progress made in the implementation of consultant recommendations on a
Manpower Statistics Program designed to improve personnel records management
and the aggregation of summary statistics.
(b)  Amend as necessary basic data currently being computerized to be incorporated
in all manual and computerized personnel records; defire standards of
performance and formats to be used to collect data using manual methods before
computerized systems can be introduced in PSM, PSC, and Ministries, RAs, and
Constitutional Agencies.



- 77 -
Attachment V(a)
Page 2 of 2
(c) Review and amend as necessary agreement on the nature of information produced
by the system for routine purposes and ensure additional capabilities for ad hoc
analysis.
(d) Advise on selection, oversee procurement and installation of suitable hardware
and software in PSM, PSC, and Ministries, RAs, and Constitutional Agencies.
(e) Implementation of the records keeping system.
(f) Design and secure the provision of training programs for key personnel in PSM,
PSC, and Ministries, RAs, and Constitutional Agencies in records keeping
system.
(g) Advise PSM on suitable ways for the monitoring and correction, where
necessary, of the use of the system, and provide advice to the Task Force on
Salary Administration during the transition recommended in Phase 2.
Outputs
Outputs expected include:
(a) Computerized records keeping system for the whole public service, established at
each Ministry and RAs, capable of providing timely and routine information on
individual employees to local managers, and aggregate statistics on employees to
local managers, PSM, PSC, and the Ministry of Finance.
Institutional Arrangements
Consultants will work with the Personnel Division of PSM/OP at all stages of this
activity and will liaise with line personnel offices in Ministries, RAs, and Constitutional
Agencies. In addition, consultants will liaise with appropriate personnel officers in PSC.
Initial project financing will be provided under the TAC and appropriate liaison activities
with UNDP/OPS will be maintained. Remaining funds necessary for activities will be
allocated through the PPF.
Timetable for Implementation
The creation and implementation of a records keeping system will be a condition of
effectiveness. Therefore, activities had already started so that a preliminary system will be
in place by Board presentation; and full implementation of the system is planned for April
1993.



- 78 -
Attachment V(b)
Page 1 of 3
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
PHASE 2: PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Background
Public Service Management (PSM) lacks a system for maintaining accurate and updated
information on approved posts, budgeted positions, number of employees, and salaries in the
public service. As a result public officers responsible for personnel management at different
levels are not held accountable. Under these constraints, the fundamental aspects of
personnel policy and administration, including the design of the public service salary scale
and recruitment strategy, can not be adequately managed. While the records keeping system
included under Phase 1 of this assistance is a critical prerequisite for effective personnel
management, in the longer term, there is also need to develop a more effective,
comprehensive, personnel policy and administration system.
Objectives
The objective of Phase 2 is the development of a modem personnel management
system for the PSM including the development of effective employment and salary
administration, comprehensive civil service policy, and a performance management and
incentives system. The system would link and define personnel policy responsibilities at the
center and personnel operational responsibilities in line personnel units within the
Ministries/Regional Administrations (RAs)/Constitutional Agencies. In addition, the system
would link appropriately the roles of PSM, PSC, line personnel offices in Ministries, RAs,
and Constitutional Agencies.
Activities
Phase 2 of the development of the Personnel Management Component contemplates a
number of activities, including:
(a) Identify progress made to date on the implementation of existing Government of
Guyana (GOG) and consultant recommendations regarding personnel management
systems.
(b)  Develop and deliver training programs for PSM and line personnel offices on
new approaches to personnel management.
(c)  As an extension of records keeping activities under Phase 1, implement a
manpower statistics reporting system for the preparation of monthly and quarterly
reports and provide training in reporting procedures to line personnel officers and
PSM.



- 79 -
Attachment V(b)
Page 2 of 3
(d)  As part of the development of systems of rational employment management,
develop manpower planning procedures and a Manpower Planning Unit and
provide training.
(e)  Develop and strengthen salary administration system with transparent, consistent,
and equitable criteria for review and upgrading of salaries on a routine basis.
(f)  Provide training and advisory services to PSC, PSM, and line personnel officers
in the Ministries/RAs/Constitutional Agencies in recruitment practices (interview
skills, entry testing techniques and monitoring of the effectiveness of testing,
transition support).
(g)  Develop handbook to strengthen standards of conduct for rules of the Public
Service and provide training course in disciplinary actions to line personnel.
(h)  Develop and implement a staff performance appraisal and incentives system to
focus on achievement against objectives--including the preparation of a
guidebook/manual for the system, and provide training in the appraisal system to
line personnel officers and PSM.
(i)   Advise on the selection of suitable hardware and software to support the
personnel management systems in PSM, PSC, and the line personnel offices and
oversee its procurement and installation.
(j) Strengthen the independent monitoring function of PSC.
(k)  Implementation of the currently revised recruitment system (PSC) and job
reclassification system (PSM and the Task Force) to achieve a transparent system
for evaluating, selecting, and monitoring the filling of public service posts.
Outputs
The principal outputs expected in this phase include the following:
(a)  Facilitate the implementation of key recommendations of the GOG/consultancies
and produce relevant modifications to those recommendations, if needed.
(b)  Delivery of training courses in the use of new approaches to personnel
management, such as wage administration, pension computation, and the
redefinition of conditions of service, to PSM and line personnel officers.
(c)  Creation of Manpower Policy Unit and manpower planning procedures, and
preparation of monthly and quarterly manpower statistics reports.



- 80 -
Attachment V(b)
Page 3 of 3
(d) Implementation of modem salary administration system with transparent,
consistent, and equitable criteria for review and upgrading of salaries and
conditions of service on a routine basis, and for monitoring the filling of public
service posts.
(e) Training courses--as noted in activity (f) above--in recruitment practices and
techniques.
(f) Handbook and training courses to relevant personnel in standards of conduct and
appropriate additions to PS Rules on conduct.
(g) Implementation of a staff performance appraisal and incentives system and
handbook on its use, and appropriate training on the appraisal system to staff of
PSM and line personnel officers.
(h) Procurement and installation of appropriate hardware and software required for
the implementation of new personnel management systems.
Institutional Arrangements
The counterpart entity for this component will be PSM/OP in coordination with
personnel management offices in line entities for the entire Public Service and with PSC.
Funds necessary for commencement of some activities (including (a), (b), (c), (e), and (h)
are to be considered under the PPF.
Timetable for Implementation
Activities under this component are to begin in early 1993 and to be phased
sequentially over a two-year period. Specific timing for each activity is provided in the
Matrix of Key Project Activities (Attachment I).






- 81 -
Attachment VI
Page 1 of 1
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADNISTRATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
GENERAL ADMMISTRATION
Background
Basic administrative, computer, communications, and transportation equipment are in
deplorable condition or are insufficient to permit adequate management of fundamental
functions in the Ministries and the Regional Administrations (RAs). Given the fiscal
constraints that the Government will face during the next few years, replacement and
acquisitions of additional equipment will not be feasible from only domestic public resources,
particularly if the Government of Guyana (GOG) is to participate in the financing of the
proposed new public service salary structure. Provision of such equipment is also important
in enabling the Ministries and RAs to improve the monitoring and information management
of the delivery of services by the Govemment. Such monitoring and collection of
information is a critical input for improving the revenue effort of the Government.
Objectives
To support management and operational capacity of the fundamental programs of the
Ministries and the RAs.
Activities
Acquisitions of basic office equipment, computer hardware and software,
communications and transport equipment for Ministries and RAs.
Outputs
Availability of indispensable equipment for operational functions.
Institutional Arrangements
The counterpart agency would be the State Planning Secretariat, in coordination with
the Ministry of Finance and the beneficiary agencies. All Ministries and RAs are
beneficiaries in this component. Procurement will be a responsibility of the Govemment
through its Cental Tender Board. In addition, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will
support all procurement activities through its Procurement Adviser. To the extent possible,
procurement will be done on the basis of global packages.
Timetable for Implementation
March 1993 - June 1997.






- 82 -
Attachment VII (a)
Page 1 of 3
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
RECRUITMENT PROGRAM
Background
Since the years prior to independence, and particularly with the recent erosion of real
incomes, the emigration of professionals and skilled workers has resulted in a serious
depletion of the work force. About 50,000 Guyanese left the country annually during 1989-
91, and about 11,000 of these were on a permanent basis. About 30 percent of these
emigrants are professional or technical workers, 35 percent are administrative/clerical, and
35 percent are other skilled workers. In order to address this issue, programs such as the
Remigration Program, initiated by the Prime Minister of Guyana in 1970, and more recently,
the UNDP-sponsored TOKTrEN and STAS were undertaken to encourage the return of
qualified Guyanese expatriates for stated periods of service in public and private sector.
Tracking and recording of participants in such short-term technical assistance missions have
been systematic only under the last two programs. Indications are that though capable of
meeting short-term needs, a major shortcoming of the existing programs has been that the
brevity of the tenure which reduces the consultant's ability to identify specific problems and
issues, and to train permanent staff during his/her assignment.
Objectives
To attract qualified Guyanese to staff selected key senior level positions in the public
service, with the aim of strengthening the managerial and technical capacity in fundamental
areas of government. The recruitment strategy will focus on attracting qualified Guyanese
applicants to compete for about 50 topmanagerial and senior technical positions identified by
Ministries and Departments, as well as Constitutional Agencies. As the number of vacancies
that can be filled under this component is substantially smaller than the total number of
vacancies in these grades, attention would be given to the strict application of the selection
criteria whereby "key" vacancies would be given priority -- see Attachment VII(b).
Vacancies that require attention such as key managerial and technical positions that require
skills which are currently scarce but necessary for the effective functioning of the ministry or
department will be prioritized in a list to be submitted by the PS or head of the entity
concerned. Selection from among these budgeted vacancies would be done by the project
team in consultation with the subject ministry or department, the PSM, and the Ministry of
Finance.
Activities
The project would support the following activities:
(a)   promotion and advertising for filling the identified vacancies;



- 83 -
Attachment VHI(a)
Page 2 of 3
promotion and advertising activities would utilize various means to reach local
and expatriate Guyanese, such as advertising, brochures, media and
newsletters;
(b)   screening, interview and selection of candidates; and
(c)   management of recruitment and administration of the incentive package. The
following incentive package would be provided to selected expatriates -- a
minimum of two consecutive years residence outside of Guyana will be
required -- who have agreed to the terms and conditions of employment in the
public service of Guyana; the incentive package in principle consists of the
foHlowing benefits: (i) one-way air passage for the beneficiary and his/her
immediate family (spouse and children under age 21)); (ii) a lump sum
relocation allowance of US$10,000, paid at the start of first year of service;
(iin) shipment costs of 6,0000 kg. of personal effects; (iv) a lump sum grant of
US$15,000 at the end of a minimum tenure (three years) of continuous
service.
The lump sum benefits are to be exempt from any levy or taxation; the contents of
personal effects included in the relocation shipment are to be exempt from duty.
Outputs
The outputs expected from activities outlined and budgeted above are:
(a)   development of computerized records and roster of applicants, skills bank, job
descriptions, dissemination of announcements and brochures and other
promotional publications for attracting applicantslocally and overseas;
(b)   transparent and effective procedure based on established criteria for
competitive screening, interview and selection of qualified expatriate and local
Guyanese; systematic evaluation and matching of candidates to job
requirements;
(c)   appointment of appropriate individuals to staff about 50 key and critical
positions in the Public Service; expected impact would be improved
management and service delivery in key functional areas.
Institutional Arrangements
The three major activities under the Recruitment Program require that the three
institutions DIEC, PSM and PSC have distinct as well as collaborative roles, described
below.



- 84 -
Attachment VHI(a)
Page 3 of 3
(a)   A support Unit, financed by the project, will be set up comprising a marketing
consultant, a support staff and facilities within DIEC to develop promotional
material and strategies for attracting suitable applicants. The TOKTEN
program in DIEC would provide counterpart technical assistance support. It
would design systems to overcome previously identified obstacles and to
improve the overall network to be used for the recruitment program. DIEC
would submit a plan (to be discussed at negotiations) to enhance the
management efficiency of the program, increase its effectiveness and impact,
and to expand and diversify the program, including more focused gender-
targeting. The responsibilities of the Unit in DIEC will be to (i) provide
computerized data and compile, update and expand the roster of applicants and
consultants; (ii) determine in collaboration with PSM and the subject ministry
or department the initial matching of the supply of expertise with specific job
descriptions ; (iii) obtain lists of names and addresses of qualified Guyanese
from professional associations within and outside of Guyana; and (iv) maintain
an updated file of job descriptions of vacancies from the public sector
agencies.
(b)   The Public Service Commission will issue the recruitment guidelines for the
transparent and merit-based procedure and criteria for evaluation, and will
liase with PSM and the subject ministry in the interviewing and selection of
candidates. The terms and conditions will be negotiated by the ministry or
department concerned, and PSC will issue the instrument of appointment.
(c)   The administration and management of the incentive package will be the
responsibility of PSM with oversight functions by PSC.
The PCU and the National Director will periodically review the progress made and
targets reached by the recruitment program based on established monitorable indicators. The
recruitment unit in DIEC will submit a progress report to the PCU every quarter during the
project cycle on key issues, targets reached and recommendations for the ongoing
implementation of the recruitment program.
Timetable for Implementation
Development of Job Descriptions:      Before Project effectiveness
Promotion Activities:                January-December 1993
Recruitment (Staffing):               100% by September 1994.



1. , "



- 85 -
Attachment VII(b)
Page 1 of 1
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF POSMONS QUALIFYING
FOR INCENTIVES UNDER THE RECRUITMENT PROGRAM
The selection of positions to be staffed under the Recruitment
Program will be based on the following:
(a)   Inclusion in the prioritized list, to be submitted initially by the
public entities, and cleared by the PCU in consultation with
the concerned ministries and departments, PSM/OP and MOF.
This list will comprise key managerial and technical positions
that require skills that are necessary for the effective
functioning of Ministries and their affiliated Departments, and
selected CAs and SAAs.
(b)   Positions selected for the list should meet the criteria of
"scarcity' of skills in either the context of the public service or
in Guyana; the positions are to require skills which have been
difficult to attract and retain in the public sector, and for which
there is competing demand in the local and foreign labor
markets.
(c)   Positions selected will be those for which comparable private
sector counterparts -- similar qualifications and experience --
receive considerably higher salaries.
(d)   Positions selected are to be in either GS15, GS16 or "Special"
grades of the Guyanese Public Service.






- 86 -
Attachment VII(c)
Page 1 of 1
GUYANA: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
PROCEDURES FOR APPOINTMENT UNDER
THE RECRUTITMENT PROGRAM
The target group of this recruitment effort would be professionally
qualified Guyanese men and women with suitable education and experience,
residing in Guyana or abroad. Procedures for appointment will involve the
following:
(a)   The PSC, with the support of PSM, and in coordination with
the Ministry or entity concerned, will issue: (i) the specific
qualifications and experience requirements, for each vacancy
announcement; and (ii) recruitment guidelines for transparent
and merit-based selection.
(b)   A Steering Committee--comprising PSM, PSC, DIEC and the
Ministry or entity involved--will be responsible for candidate
screening, interviewing and selection.
(c)   Appointments qualifying for incentives under the IDA financed
recruitment program will be approved by the National Director
of the project and cleared by the IDA.






Attachment Vm
Page 1 of 4
Government of Guyana                  - 87 -
February 10, 1993
The International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
U.S.A.
Attention:   Mr. S. Shahid Husain, Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Gentlemen,
Since 1988, Guyana has been implementing a medium-term Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) aimed at addressing serious domestic and external imbalances in the economy
and establishing the basis for renewed economic growth. Under the ERP, Guyana has
undertaken far-reaching adjustment measures and structural reforms, implying a fundamental
shift in economic policies towards a market-oriented economy. The overall fiscal deficit has
been reduced; the exchange and trade system has been liberalized and the exchange rate
unified; virtually all price controls have been removed and consumer subsidies eliminated;
the incentive framework for the private sector has improved and state intervention in
agricultural, industrial, and commercial activities has been curtailed; progress has been made
in restructuring and reducing the size of the public sector, including tax reform, strengthened
expenditure controls and privatization of public enterprises; a shift to market-based
instruments of monetary control has been initiated; arrears to multilateral and bilateral donors
have been cleared; and a social impact amelioration program has been introduced. In line
with the ERPs macroeconomic and development objectives, the Government's strategy calls
for substantially reducing the size and scope of the public sector and stimulating investment
and growth through private sector development. Under this approach, the private sector
development would constitute the engine of growth and a modernized and efficient public
sector would provide the enabling environment, including sound regulatory framework and
social and economic infrastructure. To carry out this role, the public sector requires
fundamental reform and capacity-building.
As a first step towards reform of the public sector, the Government expresses its
commitment to the objectives of the Public Administration Project which will improve the
capacity of the public sector to perform its core functions, through programs aimed at:
(a) facilitating adequate staffing of the public service and eliminating staffing redundancies;
(b) creating conditions for accountability in financial and personnel management, as well as
in fundamental operational programs; and (c) preparing a long-term strategy and program for
public sector reform consistent with the principles outlined above. The most urgent need
being addressed by the Public Administration Project is the reform of the public service



Attachment vm
-88 -                           Page 2 of 4
salary and employment structure. Given that available fiscal resources would only be
sufficient to compensate for inflation, financing through the proposed project would be
critical to the implementation of the salary upgrade. Accordingly, and in compliance with
the terms of the project, the Government commits to implement the new salary structure
under the Public Administration Project not later than one month after project effectiveness.
While initial steps toward public sector reform are to be taken under the project,
for the longer term, the reform is to be broadened and deepened. In the process, a more
complete delinleation of the role of the State will be needed to guide the Government's Public
Sector Reform Program (PSRP). The PSRP can be conceptualized in five interlocking
elements:
(a) Administrative Reform
(b) Public Sector Managemenit Reform
(c) Decentralization/Centralization
(d) Deregulation/Regulation
(e) Divestiture/Privatization
Administrative Reform cuts across all functions and levels of the public sector, and
requires the prioritization of functions of government, the reform of organizational
structures, and the rationalization of the use of resources in response. A more fundamental
functional review is necessary to eliminate out dated activities and permit resource utilization
to be more focused, particularly with respect to the Semi-Autonomous Agencies. In
addition, the PSRP should develop explicit linkages to the ERP, ensuring that Administrative
Reform reflects national priorities, particularly in relation to improvements in basic
infrastructure, in health, and in education. The Government is committed to continue the
ongoing rationalization of the Ministry's structure which now has to emphasize the review of
functions, organization, and resources of each Ministry. The Government also intends to
review the role and organization of each Semi-autonomous Agency. On the basis of these
reviews, which the Government plans to discuss and agree with IDA, the Government will
implement a time-bound action program of administrative reform measures.
Public Sector Management Reform is an effort to improve decision-making
capabilities, to improve the resource capacity, and to strengthen the operational environment
to carry out policies and programs. Thus, the reform to be undertaken in key public sector
management systems should involve measures at three different levels. At the normative
level, reform should focus on policy making authority and the legal framework for that
authority. At the institutional level, there is a need to assure that the institutional
framework corresponds to policy authority and the legal framework. There is also a
corresponding need to focus on the operational needs to plan, program, and execute policies
and programs, and to account for expenditures. This suggests the need to strengthen the
entire system of financial management with initial efforts aimed at ensuring adequate
accounting systems as the basis for public accountability. The Government is committed to
introduce fundamental reforms in this area with the support of the Public Administration



Attachment Vm
- 89 -                                  Page 3 of 4
Project. A second critical element of reforming public sector management focuses attention
on the demands of revenue collection through the strengthening of existing collection
instruments and the introduction of important changes in collections. The Government will
undertake also a major overhaul of the tax system, including better enforcement of the
existing system, and modifications in the structures to both eliminate disparities in incentives
and to generate additional revenue.
Public sector reform in Guyana also depends upon the optimal distribution of
functions among the central government, centrally controlled local administration, and locally
elected government. It is rarely a simple question of centralization versus decentralization.
Consistency requires central control, while the demands of diversity require local autonomy
and successful institutional development achieves balance between centralization and
decentralization. If a function is decentralized without local democratic control, then
planning, resource allocation, and review mechanisms must reflect central accountability. If
a function is subject to local democratic control, local accountability must be allowed to
operate, and variations in local standards of service delivery may well result. In Guyana,
there is a major conflict between effective local authority and the deconcentration of service
delivery subject to central authority in the Ministries. While theoretically subject to local
democratic control, the reality of institutional arrangements and resource transfers belies the
possibility of that control. The PSRP will have the benefit of an IDA-funded exercise which
will review the overall purposes of Regional Administrations (RAs) and develop coherent
operational procedures for activities which are administered by the RAs on behalf of the
Ministries and other activities for which the RAs will be solely responsible and accountable
to local electorates. It is the intention of the Government to adopt a program of measures by
which the RAs will align their activities to those for which they will be accountable and well-
suited to carry out. Toward this end and on the basis of the IDA-funded review, the
Government will prepare by October 1993 the basic design and implementation program for
an effective RAs system. Further, the Government intends to discuss and agree the content
of this program with IDA and, accordingly, effectuate the required legal and institutional
reforms and establish the needed new management systems.
Public sector reform must focus on improving the incentives for, and facilitate the
effective functioning of, the private sector. It is important that the past changes in the
incentive structure be maintained and extended. A review of the entire regulatory structure
affecting the private sector is being undertaken with the support of IDA to effectuate a sound
incentives framework. Based on this review the Government will further enhance the
incentives framework.
The Government is committed to the process of privatization of public sector
enterprises both to improve the efficiency of the public sector and at the same time to
generate resources which would permit the Government to address the social and
infrastructural needs of the economy. A systematic approach will be adopted for
implementation of a privatization program that will ensure transparency of operations, co-
ordination of efforts, and timely implementation. In this connection, the Government will
issue by March 1993 a policy document setting out (i) its privatization strategy; and (ii) a list
of entities to be privatized.



Attachment Vm1I
- 90 -                              Page 4 of 4
The Government will also examine the implications of divestiture initiatives for the
work and staffing levels of Ministries, RAs, and Semi-Autonomous Agencies. Total
privatization may not always be the appropriate avenue for action. Other alternatives, such
as contracting out for specific services, should also be explored. The end result will be a
new and more effective framework of public/private relationships.
In closing, the Government wishes to acknowledge the International Development
Associations's efforts in the development of the Public Administration Project which already
constitutes a first step of a long-term strategy for public sector reform. It is the intention of
the Government to further elaborate its program for public sector reform as the studies
planned under the Public Administration Project are carried on and their recommendations
are discussed and agreed with IDA.
Sincerely
Minister. inance



