Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20070
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 24800)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 8.65 MILLION (US$12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
FOR A PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
January 31, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 28, 2000)
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar (G$)
G$180.5= US$ 1
US$ I = G$.0055
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA UNCTAD's Automated System of Customs    MOF           Ministry of Finance
Data
CARICAD  Caribbean Centre for Development          MPT        Managerial, Professional and Technical
Administration                                     positions
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy             NDC        Neighborhood Democratic Councils
CDB        Caribean Development Bank               NDMA       National Data Management Agency
CED        Customs and Excise Departments          NGOs       Non-Government Organizations
CG         Central Government                      ODA        UK Official Development Assistance
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency  PAP     Public Administration Project
CPPR       Country Portfolio Performance Review    PCU        Project Coordinating Unit
DCA        Development Credit Agreement            PMT        Professional, Managerial, Technical Personnel
ERP        Economic Recovery Program               PRKS       Personnel Record Keeping System
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility  PSM       Public Service Management Ministry
FPID       Financial and Private Sector Institutional  PSMTC  IDB's Public Sector Management Technical
Development Project                                Cooperation Grant
FISBEC    Financial Sector/Business Environment    PSR        Project Status Review
(2746-GUA)
GIS        Geographic Information System           PSRSAC    Public Service Reform Adjustment Credit
GOG        Government of Guyana                    RA         Revenue Authority
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative  RDC    Regional Democratic Councils
HRMIS    Human Resource Management Information    REOs        Regional Executive Officers
System
ICB        International Competitive Bidding       SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
ICR        Implementation Completion Report        SDR        Special Drawing Rights
IDA        International Development Association   TA         Technical Assistance
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank         TAC        Technical Assistance Credit
IFM        Integrated Financial Management         TC         Technical Cooperation
IMF        International Monetary Fund             TIN        Taxpayer Identification Nurnber
IRD        Inland Revenue                          TOR        Terms of Reference
LIB        Limited International Bidding         UNDP         United Nations Development Program
MLG        Ministry of Local Government
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jit Gill



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cooperative Repubic of Guyana
Public Administration Project
CONTENTS
Page No
i. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                       9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-



Project ID: P007266                                       Project Name: Public Administration
Team Leader: Jit Bahadur S. Gill                          TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 31, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Public Administration                             L/C Number: 24800
Country/Department: GUYANA                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BA - Civil Service Reform; BY - Other Public Sector
Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/08/92                                Effective: 07/17/93            07/13/93
Appraisal:  06/22/92                                 AMTR: 06/30/95              08/12/96
Approval:  03/30/93                                Closing:  12/31/97            07/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agencv: GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA/OFFICE OF PRES./PUBLIC.SERVICE
MINISTRY (PSM)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                     Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Guillermo Perry                            Shahid Chaudhry
Team Leader at ICR:   Jit Gill                                  Antonio Martin del Campo
ICR Primary Author:   Rita Parrilli
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to provide urgently needed assistance to maintain and improve the
capacity of the public sector to perform its core functions. The thrust of the project was twofold: (a) to
facilitate adequate staffing of key public service positions and eliminate staffing redundancies; and (b) to
create conditions for accountability in financial and personnel management; as well as in fundamental
operational programs. The project supported the first phase of the Government's longer-term strategy for
public sector reform, and sought to assist in preparing the next phase of the program.
These objectives were clear and essential to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the
country's development priorities (see also section 7.1). The objectives were straightforward and took into
account the limited implementation capacity of the concerned agencies. The extent of salary enhancement
took into account GOG's fiscal and other constraints. The complexity of the project was kept in check by
addressing only the most pressing issues, limiting the number of project components, and keeping the lines
of responsibility with other donors clear and simple. The main risks were recognized from the outset: that
many incumbents would not qualify for significantly higher salaries; that increases available only for
managerial, professional, technical (MPT) positions might engender resentment among public servants at
lower pay grades; and that there may be political and union opposition to increasing MPT salaries. The
project attempted to minimize these risks through neutral application of a sound salary structure.
The project responded directly to borrower circumstances and development priorities. One of the direct
consequences of continuous negative real GDP growth of the 1970s and 1980s was the sharp decline in
living standards. This led to a large-scale emigration of qualified personnel from the public and private
sectors. The loss of skilled and experienced personnel was particularly acute in the Central Government.
Senior positions had to be filled by junior personnel or left vacant, affecting the national capacity to carry
out economic reform and even deliver basic public services. In 1988, the Government announced its
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which reversed the movement toward Cooperative Socialism. As part
of the ERP the public sector was reduced through a program of privatization. GOG, however, lacked the
fiscal resources to invest in skilled public employees and management systems. For Guyana to achieve
sustainable economic growth it was essential that it develop an efficient public service that could effectively
collect revenue and deliver basic services. The project, therefore, supported GOG's major macroeconomic
and sector policies by attempting to strengthen the public service and arrest its depletion. At the same time
it sought to build capacity in personnel management, financial management, revenue administration,
regional administration and general administration.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3.3 Original Components:
Cost
(US$ millions)
Component 1       Upgrading of Salary Structure                      10.0 (Gov't)
Component 2       Personnel Management                                0.5
Component 3       Recruitment Program                                 1.8
Component 4       Regional Administrations System                     1.0
Component 5       Integrated Financial Mgt./Revenue Adm.              4.0
Component 6       General Administration                              4.0
Coordinating Unit                                                     0.7
-2-



Assessment of the Design. Project components were well suited to the limited capacity of the
implementing agencies. The project design took into account relevant lessons from previous operations in
Guyana and the PSM sector, such as the need to: (i) keep the project simple; (ii) hold a mid-term review to
take stock and reassess the continued relevance of the projecfs objectives and activities; and (iii) include a
well-equipped Project Coordination Unit (PCU), to avoid overloading already stretched implementing
agencies and ensure effect project management. However, while the salary structure introduced during the
project was a significant improvement over the previous regime, salaries had fallen so low that the pay
increases were insufficient to retain staff in certain critical positions. Moreover, morale was adversely
affected by unfulfilled expectations and poor communications. This was due in part to GOG's continued
lack of fiscal resources and in part to difficulties in reaching agreement with the Public Service Unions on
the higher salaries needed for managerial, professional and technical staff (MPT). Similarly, the incentives
initially put in place to attract skilled expatriates under the Recruitment Program proved inadequate. This
component had a positive impact after considerable additional flexibility was added to the recruitment
process. In addition, while the expenditure management sub-component of the Integrated Financial
Management component received considerable attention at the design stage, the Revenue Administration
sub-component was not adequately developed since it was introduced into the project at GOG's request
after project appraisal. This sub-component was developed, therefore, during project implementation,
contributing to delays in its execution.
3.4 Revised Components:
The basic project design remained unchanged over the life of the project. Preparation of a Long-Term
Public Sector Reform Program, was to have been financed from the Credit, but was later financed through
the IDB at the Government's request. Similarly, GOG requested that the expenditure management
sub-component of the Integrated Financial Management (IFM) Component be delegated to other donors,
who provided grant funding. CIDA is introducing program budgeting as a first step and the IDB's
proposed $20.0 - 30.0 million Public Sector Reform Operation includes a major IFM reform component.
IDA retained the strengthening of revenue administration (US$2.0 million of the original US$4.0 million
allocation for the IFM component). The balance of US$2.0 million was reallocated to the General
Administration Component. These amendments were not of a substantial nature and, therefore, the Board's
approval was not required.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
N.A.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Most objectives were either achieved or important progress was made toward achieving them. The project'
s overall outcome was, therefore, satisfactory. The project helped GOG to streamline the public service
salary structure and raise salaries in real terms. Major salary improvements granted in August 1999 are
likely to have a further positive impact in attracting and retaining managerial, professional and technical
staff. It improved the availability of information relating to the staff establishment and, to that extent, it
strengthened the Government's personnel management capacity. The project helped GOG recruit 44 senior
and mid-level professionals to key and critical positions in the public service, most of whom remain in the
public service. It also procured a wide range of capital equipment for different government entities at the
central and regional levels, thus helping improve their operational efficiency. Groundwork has been laid
for strengthening the Regional and the Revenue Administrations, although considerable follow-up is
needed. The lack of operationalization of the Revenue Authority to date has had a negative impact on the
-3 -



effectiveness of the Revenue Administration sub-component [Note: the RA was brought into effect on
January 26, 2000].
4.2 Outputts by components:
1.    Upgrading of Salary Structure (original US$10.0 million/US$1 1.0 million -- G$38.0 billion). The
goal was to improve GOG's capacity to attract and retain skilled staff and eliminate staffing redundancies
by reforming the public service salary and employment structure. Considering the conditions prevailing at
the inception of the project and the difficulty of the working environment in Guvana, advances made are
substantial and the outputs were satisfactory. These include:
0      A new uniform 14-band salary structure covering all public service positions was introduced in
1994 replacing the 16 band structure which included a multiplicity of existing salary regimes;
*      The salary scale was decompressed raising the compression ratio from 6:1 to 9:1 for grades 1
through 16 and 16:1 for grades 1 through special. However, salaries of technical and professional staff
from grades 10-13 remain substantially compressed (3.5:1 and 6.6: 1 respectively);
The range width increased progressively from 25% for grades 1-3 to 60% for grade 14;
*      All existing posts were mapped to the new structure based on a iob evaluation exercise carried out
with assistance of ODA consultants;
*      Key and critical positions were identified for salary supplements based on criteria such as scarcity
of skills and difficulty in recruiting. GOG provided a total of G$60.0 million per year for 1996, 1997, and
1998 to supplement the pay of about 1,800 key and critical positions 15% and 20%;
Salaries increased 82%, while inflation totaled 53% over the period 1993 through 1998, resulting
in a real increase of about 29%. In August 1999, following a two-month strike by civil service employees,
an independent Arbitration Panel decided on an across-the-board wage award of 31.6% for 1999 and
almost 26.6% for 2000, with a possible effects on the economy as noted below. The original goal was to
increase salaries by 25% for grades 1-9 and 90% for the higher grades;
0      Eliminating Staffing Redundancies. It was originally intended that all vacancies in grades 1-5 be
canceled and recruitment be frozen. While vacancies in levels 1 to 5 were not canceled due to union
pressure, line ministries were required to obtain clearance of the Ministry of Public Service Management
(PSM) before recruiting at these levels. Between 1993 and 1999 there was a net reduction of about 2,850
employees (about 20%) in these grades.
2.      Personnel Management (original US$0.5 and actual). The objective was to develop a modern
personnel management system for the public service, create conditions of accountability, and improve
personnel management. Most major outputs were satisfactorily achieved.
*      A Personnel Records Keeping System (PRKS) was designed, hardware was procured, and the
PRKS is being utilized in the PSM and in 24 Departments and Regions. The system provides a
much-needed database on individual staff and their posts, salaries, and allowances. This information is
accessible to each agency with aggregate information being accessible to the PSM. This is an advance
from the situation existing before the project, when reliable establishment and wages information was not
available to Government.
*      The National Data Management Agency (NDMA) carried out a successful training for about 150
staff of user agencies who are now using the PRKS.
*      The Rules of Procedure of the Public Service Commission have been streamlined. The effect has
been to give managers more authority to hire and terminate employees and shorten disciplinary
proceedings. Implementation has not begun although the rules have been gazetted.
An annual performance appraisal system was introduced.
*      New rules regarding leave, pension, retirement age, and travel allowances were developed. These
have, however, not been brought into force pending agreement with the Public Service Unions.
- 4 -



3.     Recruitment Program (original US$1.8/actual US$665,000). The output was satisfactory in terms
of the component objective of facilitating adequate staffing of key and critical positions. Over 143
applications were received from overseas and locally. Seventy-eight persons were interviewed and
forty-four senior and mid-level professionals were recruited and paid incentives with IDA funds, thus
making scarce expertise available. Recruitment included areas such as an Assistant Commissioner of the
Inland Revenue Department; Vocational Training Specialist and Deputy Director of the National Center of
Education, in the Ministry of Education; Senior Physician and two anesthetists in the Ministry of Health;
and a Senior Agricultural Officer in the Ministry of Agriculture. Further recruitment was stopped in 1998
since the recruited persons were expected to serve for a period of three years, which would have brought
their service beyond the project's closing.
GOG indicated that many of the persons recruited made a singular contribution in their respective fields.
The Industrial Relations and Occupational Health and Safety Units of the Ministry of Health reported that
they were seriously depleted of qualified and experienced staff prior to the special recruitment under the
PAP. The seven specialists hired directly impacted on the work of the Unit and led to significant increases
in inspections by the Industrial Relations Officers, better health and safety practices, more speedy
settlement of disputes and an increase in the number of site visits. Similarly, the National Education
Research Council (NCRD) reported that two of six specialists hired had a strong impact on developing
programs for reading and science and technology, which resulted in tangible improvements in literacy and
curriculum. Various innovations were introduced, such as Reading Tests, Workshops with NGOs, and the
Get Reading Right Program.
4.   Regional Administrations System (original US$1.0/revised US$618,000/actual $480,000).
The outputs of this component were satisfactory in meeting the component's objective of initiating
improvements in the effectiveness of service delivery in Guyana's ten Regional Administrations (RAs).
Outputs include:
(a)    Improved Communications. The understanding of the role of the Chairman of the Regional
Democratic Councils (RDC) vis a vis the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) has been improved, as has
the linkage between the Chairman (who is elected) and the Regional Executive Officer (REO -- who is
appointed). In the past there had been tensions, particularly when the two did not come from the same
political party. There is now more and better inter-ministerial collaboration, which has been essential to the
achievement of the outputs listed below.
(b)    Improvements in service delivery. Following a review of the organizational and administrative
aspects of the service delivery functions of the RAs, a Local Government Operational Manual was
prepared and adopted. It clarifies roles, responsibilities and relationships between the Central Government
(CG), RDCs, Municipalities and Neighborhood Democratic Councils (NDCs). Impact includes: (i) work
programs by REOs are reviewed on a quarterly basis and reporting procedures have been streamlined; (ii)
payment time for contractors has been shortened; verification of relevant compliance certificates and
processing of documentation through line Ministries, such as Finance and Public Works, is more efficiently
attended to by a better division of labor among senior officers; (iii) about 200 functioning Community
Development Councils (CDCs) as well as revitalized programs of 65 NDCs and Amerindian Village
Councils, have enabled strong partnerships in small-scale community projects, such as public sanitation,
family life education, in conjunction with Regional Health Workers.
(c)    Increased tariffs for services. Payments for land rents at the level of the NDC have increased
somewhat. However, constraints on the part of the RDCs to levy taxes and the difficulties of the NDCs,
caused by delays by the CG authorities in fixing contemporary and equitable tax rates and effective
collection processes, continue to limit their possibilities for increased revenue collection, thus continuing
their dependency on CG budgetary allocations. Areas where tariffs can be charged (e.g. land and
- 5-



buildings; drainage and irrigation, electricity and water) and measures to improve equity in collection were
identified.
(d)    Improved Information Systems. The MLG implemented a Human Resource Management/Payroll
software "Smartstream", which is PRKS compatible, and which has made it possible to monitor Personnel
Administration records and budget allocations in the Regions.
(e)    Geographic Information System (GIS). The feasibility of a GIS was assessed and its usefulness
demonstrated to the MLG, the Forestry Department and the National Data Management. While interest
was stimulated, it has not yet been implemented due to the uncertainty of the power supply in remote parts
of the country.
(f)    Training. NDCs and Amerindian Village Councils have been trained in the use of Local
Government Operational Manual and the Manual on Improved Financial Management. The effect has
been better bookeeping/compliance with the requirements of the Auditor General. A series of workshops,
seminars and orientation programs for REOs and their staff and Amerindian Village Captains in all 10
Regions were organized. They are now more capable of operationalizing their plans and justifying
expenditures. The training has also given them a clearer understanding of the process of obtaining
transfers from the CG. General management training on the role and responsibilities of the Councilors and
how their committees should function has led to better prioritization of needs and strategic planning.
5.    Integrated Financial Mgt./Revenue Administration (original US$4.0/revised US$2.070/actual
US$1,962,000). This sub-component financed consultants and equipment to strengthen the Inland Revenue
(IRD) and the Customs and Excise (CED) Departments and carry out the detailed organizational design of
the proposed, autonomous, Revenue Authority that would supervise both the departments. The Mission
Statement, Vision and Values of the RA; strategic plan for the RA; strategic, tactical and operational
planning framework and performance monitoring guidelines; organizational structure of the RA and
detailed design and profile of its various functional divisions such as Internal Revenue, Customs, Internal
Audit, Legal Services, Management Services, Human Resource Management, Finance and Administration,
Information Technology, Collections, and Revenue Protection were prepared. Detailed policies, procedures
and guidelines were developed for human resource management, including an employee code of conduct,
conflict of interest and post-employment code, discipline of employees, job evaluation manual, pay scales
for RA staff, performance appraisal system, grievance procedures and HR (Staffing) Manual. For Internal
Audit, investigation procedures, internal audit policy and internal audit charter were developed, besides
internal audit manuals. Computer hardware and generator were acquired for the IRD and CED. In the
CED the consultants developed a Container Tracking System for tracking containers received and released
at different transit sheds, and an Importer Profiling System to assist in targeting enforcement actions. A
consumption tax computerized system was also developed. In the CED, workshops were held for
Departmental Management Committees to define operational reporting requirements and reporting forms.
In the IRD, a new Taxpayer Identification number (TIN) was designed and a Trade Licensing and
Miscellaneous Licensing System was developed. New income tax forms were designed. A Training Needs
Assessment for the RA was carried out, skill gaps were identified, and training programs were conducted
for managers of the IRD, CED, and Internal Audit. In addition, GOG prepared a draft of the proposed
salary structure and a list of current staff of the CED and IRD to be transferred to the new RA.
Finally, an action plan for full implementation of the RA was developed. Thus, preparatory work for the
creation of the RA was completed and critical inputs were provided to the CED and the IRD. While the
output of the sub-component is satisfactory, the outcome is unsatisfactory since the RA is yet to be
operationalized and the bulk of consultant recommendations and products are yet to be implemented.
6.     General Administration (original US$4.0/revised US$7.5/actual US$4.9). Since 1993 the CAS
has, inter alia, focused on developing basic infrastructure while strengthening institutional capacity and
regulatory frameworks for effective delivery of essential services. The provision of badly needed
- 6 -



equipment under this component is consistent with those objectives. The output was satisfactory in meeting
important physical resource needs of various government agencies and Regional Administrations. A wide
range of capital equipment was acquired for different Government entities at the central and regional levels.
This included an X-ray machine, Apron Security Lighting and Precision Approach Path Indicator for the
Georgetown airport; earth moving equipment, transport equipment and communications equipment. These
items contributed to significantly improving the operational efficiency and effectiveness of recipient public
entities.
The project's Performance Indicators (see also Annex I) were appropriate for achieving the project's
objectives, although many by their nature could not be quantified. The majority were fully or mostly
achieved, although only half of those targeted were hired under the Recruitment Program; tariffs under the
Regional Administration may be increased to reach the projected targets once further decentralization of
taxing power in achieved; and revenue collections may reach levels targeted in the SAR if the Revenue
Authority is operationalized [Note: the RA was brought into operation on January 26, 2000].
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The net present value/economic rate of return were not calculated in the SAR. The possibility of hiring and
retaining qualified/skilled staff when improvements are made in the salary structure was demonstrated by
GOG's current ability to hire accounting and certain other professions which were previously difficult to
attract. Similarly, the incentives provided under the Recruitment Program demonstrated that certain scarce
skills can be obtained in the fields mentioned in Section 4.2 (3). In addition the potential remains strong for
significant increases in revenue collections pending operationalization of the Revenue Authority [Note: the
RA was brought into operation on January 26, 2000].
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Each component contributed to the country's ability to make effective use of its human or financial
resources as indicated in Section 4.2. The ID impact of this project was substantial in some areas
(Regional Administration, Personnel Management) and modest in others (Revenue Administration, Salary
Structure) for reasons set forth in sections 5 and 6 below. In either case, the project laid a solid foundation
for institutional strengthening efforts in future projects. The proposed IDA Public Service Reform
Adjustment Credit (PSRSAC), and the proposed IDB Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance
Grant which will help prepare IDB's long-term Public Sector Operation, will build on the institutional
strengthening begun under this project. See also sections 6.2 and 6.3.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Salary Structure: A special remuneration structure for MPT remains to be developed with IDB assistance.
However, given the 31% across the board public service salary increase for 1999 and the nearly 27%
increase for 2000 (see transition arrangements below), GOG may now find it difficult to give higher wages
to MPT in the short term, both on fiscal grounds and due to lack of agreement from the public service
unions, whose emphasis has been on salary increases for the bottom and middle grades, which are already
competitive with the private sector. This has had a partial impact on the outcome of the component.
Personnel Management. The PRKS had been used less than expected, in part due to the departure of some
trained personnel and the need for additional training, and in part due to the lack of management initiative
at the agency level. This has had a partial impact on the outcome to date. However, the proposed IDA
- 7 -



Public Service Reform Structural Adjustment Credit (PSRSAC) and complementary long-term IDB public
sector operation are expected to develop the next version of the PRKS, combine it with other databases,
and transform it over time into a full-fledged Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS).
Recruitment Program: Since GOG salaries remained significantly lower than international comparators,
even after improvements under the project, the additional incentives expected by skilled expatriate
Guyanese were found to be generally higher than those offered by the Recruitment Program. Therefore,
considerable difficulty was experienced early in the project in attracting expatriates under the program.
Recruitment picked up after the Program was broadened to include qualified resident Guyanese, coverage
was extended to mid-level critical positions, and GOG was given additional flexibility in negotiating the
incentive package. The effect, therefore, was partial.
Regional Administration. The full benefits of the work of the consultants were inhibited by poor staffing in
the Regional Administrations, which is largely the result of poor pay and harsh living conditions. The
consultants worked well with the staff available and the recent salary increases for the public service may
ameliorate this problem. Also, in view of the impending Constitutional Reform, expected to be enacted in
2000, GOG decided not to pursue structural reforms in Regional Administration through the project. The
effect was partial.
Revenue Administration: Industrial relations problems in Guyana and bomb scares, particularly over the
last months of the project, limited the amount of coaching and mentoring the technical specialists could
provide to the staff. The effect was partial, since many qualified counterparts were not on board anyway,
due to lack of activation of the Revenue Authority.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to government control:
Salary Structure: In December 1995, GOG announced a policy that would aim to bring public service pay
levels to within 10% of the lower market quartile in the medium term (also a Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Initiatiye - HPIC - requirement). While this remains the GOG's intention, actualization was
complicated by negotiations with the public service unions and macro-economic constraints. The policy,
nevertheless, is likely to have a substantial positive impact in setting the direction for the future.
Regional Administration. The establishment of the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) in the mid-1990s
was a significant initiative and a clear indication of the intention of GOG to strengthen Regional
Administration. In addition, GOG support for local government and decentralization has been
demonstrated by the policy statement from the GOG that local elections will be held in 2000, after more
than two decades. Implementation, however, was partially affected due to significant delays in GOG's
decision-making, first relating to the engagement of the Consultants, and then on actions to be taken on
their recommendations. The delay was partly due to the need to build consensus within Government on the
politically sensitive issue of regional administration. Since the loan was extended for other reasons the
consultants were able to complete much of their work. However, only about half the amount allocated for
this activity was spent.
Revenue Administration (RA). The passing of the Revenue Authority Act in July 1996 was a significant
step forward, but the fact that it was not effective during the life of the project had an substantial negative
impact on the outcome of this sub-component. This has limited the benefits derived by the RA from the
inputs provided by the project.
IDA agreed to the third extension of the PAP's closing date from June 30, 1999 to July 31, 1999 in order to
- 8 -



complete procurement of the computer equipment for the IRD and CED. There had been delays in
evaluation of bids, approval by the Central Tenders Board and the Cabinet. This delay had a partial effect,
since the expertise of the consultants could not be used in operationalizing the equipment.
General Administration. GOG requested a third extension of the IDA Credit through December 31, 1999
[the first extension was from December 31, 1997 to December 31, 1998 and the second was from
December 31, 1998 to June 30, 1999] to use most of the undisbursed $3.1 million in IDA funds for
purchase of new Y2K compliant systems for: (a) payroll; (b) Air Traffic Services Instrument Landing
(ILS/VDR); (c) Billing for GUYWA; and (d) hardware and software for various departments to replace
non-Y2K compliant systems. The extension was made contingent upon bringing the Revenue Authority
into operation by June 15, 1999. As this was not done, the request could not be granted. GOG has made
alternative financing arrangements for these items. The effect was negligible since this component had
already used more than its original allocation.
5.3 Factors generally sul?Ject to implemienting agency control:
Recruitment Program. Delays were experienced initially in obtaining responses from line ministries on
CVs of candidates sent to them for final selection. Some managers were disinclined to pay incentives to
future subordinates when they themselves would continue to receive their low Government salary. There
may also have been professional insecurity created by the prospect of recruiting persons who were better
qualified than the managers. Once this reluctance was overcome, the skills of those recruited were used in
most cases to good effect. The effect, therefore, was negligible. Also, the Head of the Presidential
Secretariat quickened the pace of recruitment by recruiting some persons directly at the Office of President
and assigning them to the concerned ministry.
5.4 Costs and financing:
N.A.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Salary and Employment Structure: Reforms have been formally enacted and, therefore, are likely to be
sustained including through continued support from IDA's PSRSAC and the IDB's Public Sector
Modernization Program. The actions taken thus far have been important first steps in the establishment of
an adequate and transparent salary structure. Moreover, GOG's policy of bringing public service pay
levels to within 10% of the market lower quartile further enhances the likelihood of sustainability over the
long-term.
Personnel Management: GOG is considering upgrading the PRKS to a Human Resource Management
Information System (HRMNIS) with help from the IDB. Sustainability is, therefore, likely. See also
Transition Arrangements below.
Recruitment Program: Of the 44 professionals recruited 35 have remained in Government service to date
and budgetary provisions are being made for their continued employment. Sustainability is, therefore,
likely.
Regional Administration. Sustainability is likely since periodic monitoring and follow-up on CARICAD's
work will be undertaken through assistance from the following sources: (a) the CDB in their support for
strengthening local governments (already approved); (b) the IDB in their work on infrastructure for
municipalities; (c) UNDP's Development Cooperation Framework, which provides for strengthening
regional administrations, including local communities.
-9-



Revenue Administration. Sustainability is unlikely until and unless the Revenue Authority is brought into
effect quickly and funding is obtained to institutionalize the work done under the project . The longer the
time passes between the departure of the consultants, the more the momentum generated by their work will
be lost [Note: the RA was brought into effect on January 26, 2000].
General Administration. Sustainability is likely since GOG has included maintenance of the equipment
procured in its capital budget and ongoing and proposed Bank operations will continue to provide
supplementary equipment.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regutlar operations:
Salary Structure: The two month strike in mid- 1999 by public service employees led to an across the board
wage award in August 1999 of 31% for 1999 (retroactive to January 1999) and almost 27% for the year
2000. The increases did not occur in the context of an overall pay and employment policy. It is estimated
that they will increase the budget deficit to an estimated 5% of GDP by the end of 1999. GOG is
committed to turn this into an opportunity for public sector reforms through measures to be undertaken in
connection with the proposed IDA PSRSAC and IDB Public Sector Modernization operation. The
PSRSAC will provide short term support for the Government's adjustment program to reinstate fiscal
stability with public service downsizing, to begin to pave the way for longer term public sector reform
initiatives. Measures relevant to the PAP include: (i) a hiring freeze (staffing of the Revenue Authority will
not be constrained by the freeze), (ii) retirement of unqualified temporary and other redundant public
servants in levels 1-5, (iii) cancellation of vacancies, and (iv) down-sizing of the civil service, while
attracting skilled personnel.
Also, HPIC measures included: (i) the carrying out a survey of private sector remuneration and
establishment of mechanisms to carry out such surveys regularly; and (ii) developing and implementing a
remuneration structure for MPT positions in the civil service. The survey was completed in November
1999 with IDB assistance and work is in progress to develop mechanisms for regular surveys. In addition,
a portion of IDB's $1.5 million TC Grant will be used to review the entire public sector salary and job
classification structure, including for the MPT. Implementation is likely only in the longer term, given the
recent across-the-board wage increases mentioned above.
Personnel Administration. To assure that the process of selecting redundancies is technically sound and
transparent, the GOG has made a commitment to make full use of information already available in the
PRKS and the MOF's payroll system. Under the IDB operations, GOG is considering developing and
operationalizing an integrated HRMIS.
Revenue Administration. Transition arrangements are not currently in place. Previous experience indicates
that Customs and Excise and Inland Revenue reform is a long-term endeavor. If the Revenue Authority is
brought into effect, the IDB's proposed $50.0 million Public Sector Reform Operation may continue the
work begun under this project [Note: the RA was brought into effect on January 26, 2000].
The main future performance indicators for PAP components include: (i) operationalization of the Revenue
Authority; (ii) further elimination of redundancies at the still-bloated lower grades of the public service
(PSRSAC); (iii) development and implementation of a MPT salary structure sufficient to attract and retain
skilled staff (IDB); (iv) further development of the PRKS and other personnel initiatives (IDB's long-term
PSR), and (v) update of property tax rolls and enhanced tariff collections in the Regional Administrations
(CARICAD/CDB).
- 10-



Bank follow-up. The Bank will follow-up on several PAP components through the PSRSAC, which will
likely be reviewed by OED, and through continued monitoring of HPIC initiatives.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory,
with the caveats on design mentioned in Section 3.2. The PAP objectives and activities were consistent with
the CAS and the Government's development strategies. They continue to be consistent with the CAS as
IDA moves toward consolidating and enhancing advances to date through the proposed FPID and PSRSAC
operations and the proposed enhanced HIPC Debt Relief Initiative.
As indicated in Section 3.1, the skill mix of Bank staff (Annex 4(a) (b)) was appropriate to address GOG's
major public sector problems of the 1 990s. The design took into account the findings of a comprehensive
Bank Public Sector Review for Guyana completed in 1992. The Bank adequately appraised the
commitment of the Government, as reflected in GOG's public sector development policy letter of February
10, 1993. The risks and complexity of the project are covered in section 3.1 and strong coordination with
development partners can be seen throughout preceding sections. See Section 4.2 and Annex 1 for
adequacy of performance indicators. With the exception of the Revenue Administration component,
implementation plans were clear and well thought through.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions were effective and well documented.
Comprehensive 590s/PSRs and aide memoire were prepared, reviewed and agreed in detail with beneficiary
agencies, the Head of the Presidential Secretariat and Minister of Finance. Ratings were realistic.
Implementation problems, including recruitment and procurement delays and the development impact of not
operationalizing the RA, were identified early and called to the attention of the national authorities. The
quality of the advice given was appropriate and clearly set forth in aide memoirs. For example, the
mid-term review report outlined various options for funding MPT salary enhancements and, earlier, good
advice was given on steps toward moving to an integrated financial management system. As discussed
earlier, the Bank showed considerable flexibility in agreeing to: (i) the modification of the DCA to activate
the Recruitment Program; (ii) reallocation of project funds and project extensions; and (iii) implementation
of parts of the project through partner agencies as the situation changed. The quality, number, skill mix,
and continuity of staff supervising the project were appropriate for the nature of the project.
IDA has recently carried out a Country Procurement Assessment Review which took into account the
experience of all projects in the Bank's portfolio, including the PAP. Bank missions were often timed so
that supervising staff could participate in related Bank and donor missions. For example, members of the
mid-term review team of May/June 1996 also participated in the Country Portfolio Performance Review
(CPPR), and several PAP missions worked closely with the multi-donor HPIC missions. Bank managers
changed several times over the life of the project, but task managers changed only once in the eight years
elapsing from design to close. This provided continuity and consistency of approach.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory for the reasons stated above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Given the context of scarce administrative resources and shortage of skilled personnel, the GOG's
- 11 -



performance in design and preparation was satisfactory. Borrower commitment was evident from their
Public Sector Development Policy Letter of February 10, 1993, policy initiatives, and new legislation.
7.5 Government implemnentation peiformance:
The Government's performance in implementation was mostly satisfactory. The Borrower expressed strong
commitment to the project in several ways mentioned earlier, including setting the policies and passing the
laws needed to reform the public sector. GOG was effective and timely in meeting the loan covenants,
although the pace of implementation was sometimes slowed due to circumstances beyond GOG's control:
industrial actions, civil disturbances following elections, and, in the case of the Revenue Authority, a court
order enjoining Government from establishing the Authority, as well as by systemic issues affecting most
projects in Guyana: slowness of evaluation of bids and low procurement thresholds requiring frequent
ministerial decisions.
The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was adequately staffed and functioning throughout the life of the
project and carried out its responsibilities in accordance with the requirements of the DCA. These included
arranging for project audits, maintaining accounts of expenditures, facilitating hiring under the Recruitment
Program, and ensuring that TOR and procurement met IDA requirements.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation Agencies used the project funding to the best of their capabilities and adequately managed
the work of consultants and procurement, within the context of limitations of staffing and resources and
systemic constraints on timely procurement. Implementation follow-up has been adequate in most cases.
Their performance is, therefore, satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory especially in light of the difficult conditions in which
the project operated.
8. Lessons Learned
a.     General Lessons:
(i)    Important changes to the salary and employment structure require agreement from all stakeholders.
When there is solid justification for targeting MPT salaries rather than the lower grades, it is important to
seek the early support of staff unions and opposition political parties in an attempt to prevent the
undermining needed reforms.
(ii)    Accurate and transparent information needs to be provided on a regular basis to public servants
when salary reforms are being undertaken to avoid creating false expectations that may later lead to
frustrations and industrial actions.
(iii)   When designing new salary regimes, it is important to obtain the most reliable information before
embarking on the reform, even if this results in implementation delays, to ensure that the new structure will
be adequate to meet stated goals. Similarly, it is essential to carefully examine the effect of removing
market supplements, in order to protect key and critical posts.
(iv)   In exceptional circumstances, such as in Guyana, when Recruitment Programs are appropriate, it
is important to ensure that the receiving departments are consulted as well as the concerned ministry, in
order to maximize effectiveness and receptivity. Tapping the experience of skilled retired persons may also
be a relatively low cost way to obtain critical expertise.
- 12 -



(v)    When dealing with sensitive issues, such as decentralization, setting of tariffs, and the sorting out
of the respective roles of various levels of (sub-national) government, it is important to hire consultants
who are familiar with and sensitive to the issues. This is essential if they are to be successful in gaining the
confidence of all concerned parties and playing a catalytic role. In such cases, sub-regional groups and
NGOs may be more effective than international consultants.
b. Country-Specific Lessons:
(i)    The procurement system is cumbersome and was responsible for delays in project
implementation. For future projects it would be useful to agree on a special "fast-track" system. Future
CPPRs and Procurement Assessments should focus on the bottlenecks and agree with the borrower on how
to eliminate them.
(ii)    A fully functioning and well-equipped PCU with decision making authority and access to all levels
in the project's beneficiary agencies is essential in countries where implementation capacity is weak and
staffing is thin. Without such support, decisions are slow or not forthcoming and there is considerable
difficulty in complying with IDA's basic requirements for accounting, audit, and procurement.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction/Baclkiround
1.    This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is an evaluation of the Guyana Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) 2480 GUA. The SDR 8.65 million credit which was approved by IDA on April 08,
1993, provided from expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required to
maintain and improve the capacity of the public service to perform its core functions.
2.     The Government of Guyana (GOG) designed a medium term Economic Recovery Programme
(ERP) in June 1998 in order to reverse Guyana's economic decline and create the basis for sustained
economic growth and a viable external position. There was a fundamental change of economic policy and
shift towards a market-oriented economy. The key elements of the ERP were the unification of the
exchange rate system, liberalization of external trade, increase in the primary current account surplus of the
public sector, tightening of credit policy, pursuit of a flexible interest rate policy and major structural
reforms, including the divestment of a number of public enterprises. Also important in regard to restoring
growth was the improvement in power supply.
3.     Decades of long neglect of the economy and poor public sector wages, however, had resulted in
emigration of a large number of technical and professional staff to North America and the Caribbean in
search of better employment opportunities. Technical staff in the public service at the time of the ERP,
therefore, lacked experienced and relevant training to undertake analytical work; where technical skills were
available, staff was stretched very thinly. In addition, information and capacity for policy formulation and
analysis were almost non-existent, there was little capacity for development and implementation of the
public section investment program, and, by end 1990, the Statistic Bureau had stopped the publication of
- 13-



statistical reports and computer equipment and software were largely not available for key ministries and
agencies.
B. Proiect Obiective
4.     The main objective of the project was to provide urgently needed assistance to maintain and
improve the capacity of the public service to perform its core functions.
The focus of the project was two fold -
(i) to facilitate adequate staffing of key public service positions and to eliminate staffing
redundancies; and
(ii) to create conditions for accountability in financial and personnel management, as well as in
fundamental operational programmes.
C. Implementation
5.     The main parts of the project were:
a) Reforming the public service salary and employment structure;
b) public sector management strengthening which included the following components (i)
Integrated Financial Management; (ii) Regional Administrations Systems; (iii) Personnel
Management; (iv) General Administration and (v) a recruitment programme with defined
coverage and selection criteria, advertising campaign, an incentive package and a system for
management and monitoring of the programme.
D. Assessment of Credit
6.    (i) Reforming the Public Service Salary and Employment Structure
The key elements of this component were to:
a) improve capacity to attract and retain skilled staff
b) implement a new personnel grading system and salary structure for the public service.
Public Service salaries were found to be comparable with salaries in the private sector only for
unskilled jobs at the lower end of the salary scale.
Prior to 1998, although salaries increased significantly in real terms, the increases could be
considered as insufficient to attract and retain staff on a sustainable basis.
However, with a substantial increase of salaries in 1999 by 31.06%, although not yet
verifiable, it is anticipated that the attractiveness of the public service will improve.
The work to be financed by IDB on compensation and the proposed Public Sector
Modernization Project will address further issues of public service salaries which will go a
- 14 -



long way to increase the "pull" of persons to the public service.
The introduction of a new salary structure, graded positions in different ministries based on a
uniformed criteria, resulting in employees in "closed" ministries whose pay was higher than
their counterparts in "open" ministries to loose their privileged positions. While these
employees become "red circled" they were not penalized when salary increases were granted
since they received the same percentage increases as other employees.
The goal of upgrading of the salary structure was not totally achieved. The fourteen (14) Band
Salary Structure comprised only minimum, mid point and maximum salary at each band, but
this was not a design problem, but rather due to the fact that no merit pay scheme was in place
coupled with "ability to pay".
While vacancies in the grading levels 1 through 5 were not cancelled, the Management
Services Division of Public Service Management continued to assess needs on a case by case
basis.
Government has proposed a voluntary departure scheme which it is hoped will be effective in
the year 2000.
There is still need to obtain total agreement with the social partners.
An annual performance appraisal system was introduced but implementation problems arose.
This aspect will be revised in the IDB project.
(ii) Upgrading of the PRKS
The employment of a local information Systems specialist within the Data Processing Unit
(DPU) in 1998 brought great improvements to the Personnel Record Keeping System. The
PRKS database has gone through several iterations of re-modeling and is now referred to as
HRNIS database. The new database has already been created using the available information
from PRKS. The new structure includes as many aspects of public service data as necessary
for immediate improved information management. It accommodates position which includes
job descriptions, training information, employee training, as well as security features to allow
for controlled access to site information. All aspects of information are structured according to
modern relational database techniques, therefore the transition to an upgraded Human
Resources and Payroll package will be easily facilitated.
The facilities required at a site to provide access to the data base are standard for all offices
external to PSM. These include Widow 9X, a modem, the HR S1 application and a telephone
line that will be used to make a dial-up connection to the database at PSM. The statistics show
that 30 out of 53 offices require access to the database based on their employee volume. Of
those, 22 already have computers and 19 will have access as 15 modems were purchased by
PSM and 4 have purchased their now new PCS with modems. Of the 15 modems purchased
by PSM, 9 have been installed. The process of installation has been slow as the PCS are 486s
and several problems had to be resolved by PSM or in the case of replaced parts by the
agency. A DPU staff has been trained and monitored during the upgrade process. Internal to
PSM a local area Network of about 12 computers has been installed and configured with a
Windows NT server acting as a file server and the HRM ISI database server.
- 15 -



With respect to the installation of the application itself at the sites no site has been able to
connect remotely as the acquisition of a latest version of the development tool has brought
better techniques to solve certain remote access programming problems which had slowed
down development of application. Security features are also still in development. As a result
an even more scaled down application was developed to update Government Orders internal to
DPU. A new completion date of January 31 has been set to roll out the position management
and employee management module of the application internal to PSM and to external offices.
Other updates currently done centrally, relate to the provision of a link between HRM IS 1 and
the MOF payroll. Initial activity have commenced, but there is need for a structured approach
to this collaboration and further inputs in terms of agreed policy roles for major actors. The
PSC is still to be brought on board. It is envisaged that full harmonization will be achieved
under the IDB Public Sector Modernization Programme which is scheduled to commenced in
early 2000.
(iii) Public Sector Management Strengthening
(iii) a) Revenue Administration
Adequate preparatory work has been done to facilitate the creation of a Revenue Authority.
However recommendations in this area remained unimplemented for various reasons.
Central Government is none-the-less committed to the establishment of a Revenue Authority
when institutional strengthening issues contemplated can be adequately completed and
implemented.
It is anticipated with the establishment of the Authority, institutional strengthening initiatives
which could not have been addressed on account of the acute staff shortage at the Inland
Revenue Department will be treated with by the Revenue Authority.
(iii) b) Regional Administrations
No additional comments are proposed at this time. Suffice it to say that the views on the
Bank's section of the ICR are acceptable.
(iii) c) General Administration
Procurement under this component is considered satisfactory. However aspirations towards
securing a fisheries patrol vessel were not fulfilled on account of the value of the bids
submitted and the need for Central Government to find additional funds to progress this
procurement.
Even the alternative proposed utilisation of the non-committed funds to procure additional
equipment for the Ministry of Home Affairs including fire tenders and fire vehicles; a billing
system for GUYWA, equipment for the Ministry of Health and Regions as well as the Civil
Aviation Department could not be progressed in view of the fact delivery dates would have
been beyond the closing date of the project.
- 16 -



(iii) d) Recruitment Component
The recruitment component of the Project had envisaged the recruitment of fifty (50) persons
to various skill areas in the Public Service and while there was a great effort to recruit persons
from overseas, only 10 persons took up appointments.
As a result, it was agreed with the Bank that the component be opened to include local
professionals.
This action brought more success as thirty-four (34) persons took up offers of employment.
Of the total number of persons recruited; four terminated their contract prematurely, one (1)
contract was terminated by Central Government, and one (1) recruit died in service.
Three persons who tours of duty were completed did not opt to continue in the Public Service.
While the flexibility of the Recruitment Component in the later stages allowed for local
recruitment which provided much needed capacity in the Ministries concerned, in places where
there were staff at the same levels who were equally qualified a "morale" problem emerged
since the incentives of the programme created inequities among staff remuneration.
In any future programmes where this impact may be identified consideration may be given to
putting in place appropriate mitigating mechanisms.
(b) Cofinanciers.
N.A.
(c) Other partners (eNGOs/private sector):
N.A.
- 17 -



10: Additional Infornation
GUYANA PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT: IDA CREDIT 2480-GUA
Project Review/June 1999
This matrix was attached to the final mission aide memoire. It, therefore, does not take into
account the significant salary increases of August 1999, discussions related to the proposed IDA
PSRSAC, or the operationalization of the Revenue Authority on January 26, 2000.
Component 1. Reforming the Public Service Salary and Employment Structure
COMPONENT                      ACTtVIntES                 EXPECTED RESULTS  CURRENT SITUATION/                          PROBLEMS AND                    NEXT STEPS
OBJECTIVES                                                                            ACHItEVEMENTS                     CONSTRAINTS                     FUTURE OPERATIONS
ENCOUNTERED
Improve Govt's capacity to     1. Implement structural     Salary structure streamlined  New Salary Structure: A new     While public service salaries  Initiatives taken so far are
attract and retain skilled staff    changes in salary scale  so that all public servants   14-band salary structure was  have been found to be          important first steps in public
and eliminate staffing         through:                   ean be adequately, equitably introduced in May 1994 w.e.f      comparable with those in the   service reform, a process that,
redundancies by reforming the                              and transparendy           117/93. This replaced all existing    private sector for unskilled jobs   given the extremely poor initial
public service salary asd      (a) Incorporation within the  compensated within a     salary regimes, including special  at the lower end of the salary  conditon in the public service,
employment structure           salary scale of all positions   formal grading structure.    arrangements that existed in the "    scale, the difference at the  has to be viewed as a multi-step
presently filled through                               Closed" Ministries.               middle and senior levels remains process, linked to the overall
Performance Indicators From    special contracts, allowances Slowing down of attrition                                   substantial.                   macro-economic performance of
the Staff Appraisal Report of    and salary enhancements    rate in key and critical  A number of allowances were                                       the country.
March 9, 1993                                             positions and increased     grossed up into the regular salary.    Although salaries increased
Implementation of new          (b) Decompression of the    recruitment to these       The new structure had a mid-point   significantly in real terms, the    However, given the central
personnel grading system and    salary scale: raising      positions                  compression ratio of 12:1.         increasesto dateare insufficient  importance ofhavinga
agreed salary structure for the    comoression ratio from 6:1                                                           to attract and retain staff on a  well-staffed and skilled public
public service, including the  to 9:1 for grades I through                            The range width increased         sustainable basis. Resources    service to all other initiatives of
elimination of all employment   16 and 16:1 for grades I to                           progressively from 25% for grades   available for salary enhancement GOi, the need to take additional
and salary regimes outside the    Spedal                                              1-3 to 60 for grade 14. Based on a   are constrained by overall fiscal  measures to improve the
formal grading system                                                                job evaluation exercise carried out   capacity ofthe govemment, the   attractiveness ofthe public
(c) Designing an increasing                            with assistance of ODA consultants, amount of funds available from    service is evident.
Achievement of target          range-width across grades:                             all existing posts were mapped to    donors - ODA and WB - as well
compression rations, and grading 40% for grades 1-9; 60% for                          the new structure.                as IMP conditionalities. Also,   It is expected that work financed
system composition of the      grades 10-14; 80% for                                                                     due to pressure from the unions,  by the IDB on compensation and
public service [the compression  grades 15-Special                                    Salarv increases: in May 1994, a   GOG had to allocate a larger   the proposed DDB P2ublic Sector
ratio should be at least 9:1 for                                                      20% increase in salary and wages    share of available resources to    Modemization operation will
levels I through 16, and 16:1 for                                                     prevailing at 12131/92 was granted  the lower grades 1-5, reducing,   address further the issue of
levels I through Special].                                                            with effect from 711193. Following  therefore the increases that could public service salaries.
(d) Increasing salaries by                             a strike by Public Sector Unions,    be granted to key and critical
Cancellation of all existing   25% for grades 1-9 to 90%                              who demanded increasing the        positions.
vacancies in grading system    for grade 16.                                          minimum wage to G$6,600, from
levels I through 5 at the time of                                                    G05,040 proposed under the new     Transitional anomalies: In some
implementation of the new      (e) Shifting key and critical                          salary structure, GOG agreed to   cases salary differentials based
salary scale; and freezing, or  nositions to grades such that                        increase salaries and wages by 5%    on seniority were not maintained.
cancellation, of all sew       the corresponding salary is                            for Grades 1-5 w.e.f 1/1/94. Also    A Committee, including Union
vacancies in the same levels    sufficient to attract and                             from 7/1/94, the minimum wage was representatives, was constituted
throughout the life of the Project retain qualified people                           increased to G5,500. Since this     to review and address such
implied disturbing the agreed     anomalies. However, not much
compression ratio, the whole salary  progress was made and GOG is
structure was revised upwards to  dealing administratively with
maintain the mid-point compression  anomalies on a case by case
ratio. Salary scales were increased   basis.
byanotherl6%w.e.f 1/1/95, 16%
w.e.f 1/1/96, 15%w.e.f 1/1/96;
20% w.e.f 1/1/97; and 30% w.e.f
- 18 -



On thewhole, the minimum wage   Effect ofNew Salary Structure
has increased from G$ 3,451 on  on Morale: The introduction of
1/1/93 to G$11,445 on 1/7/98. The  the new salary structure raised
top band salary scale has increased   expectations of substantial
from G$19,344-G$28,255 (old     increases in saaries. These
GS 16) in January 1993 to G$91,753  expectations were not fulfilled.
- G$170,346 (new GS 14) in July   Further, since the new salary
1998.                           structure graded positions in
different ministries based on
Public Service Wage Policv: In  uniform criteria, employees in"
December 1995, GOG announced a  Closed ministries, who were
policy to bring public service pay    paid higher than their
levels to 10% of the market lower   counterparts in "Open"
quartile, in the medium-term and to  ministries lost their privileged
within the market median quartile in position. These employees
the long-term. The Gov't        became "red-circled", meaning
cornmitted to provide GS60.0    that while the pay of the
million per year for 1996,1997 and  incumbernts would be protected,
1998 as counterpart fimds to    they would not be entitled to pay
supplement the pay of about 1,800   increases until the corresponding
key and critical positions ranging    grade salary caught up with them
from 15% to 20%, and an additional through periodic increases.
G$10.0 million in 1998 for      These factors caused some
supplements payable in 1999.    demoralization. However, the
red circled employees did not
Posts eligible for supplements were  actually suffer, because GOG
identified inl 996 based on agreed   granted the same salary increases
criteria such as scarcity of skills and to them as to other employees.
difficulty in recruiting.
Supplements continue to be tax-free
and based on the minimum grade
base pay at 12/95.
Policy changes include the
introduction of an annual
performance evaluation system,
regular salary reviews, and an
improved job evaluation procedures.
IL. Fill Key and Critical                          231 persons were recruited for
positions on priority                              positions between grades 6 to 14,
from 1993 to 1995, and 165 persons
were recruited from 1995 to 1998.
However, from 1993 to 1995 747
persons in these grades left the
public service between 1003 and
1995 and from 1995 to 1998 141
persons left. GOG has been
successful in recruiting 42 mid-level
and senior persons to key and
critical positions using the
incentives of the Recruitment
Program.
Eliminate staffing redundancies  IIl. Cancel all existing                       Vacancies in levels 1-5 were not
vacancies and freeze                               canceled. However, Line Ministries
recruitment to grades 1-5                          are required to obtain clearance of
the Ministry of Public Service
Management (PSM) before
recruiting at these levels. This is
given only in deserving cases.
Between 1993 and 1996, there was a
net reduction of about 2,200
positions (17%) in these grades.
Betwecn 1996 and 1998 there was a
further reduction of about 639
positions.
IV. Assess employment                              The Management Services Division                               A comprehensive assessment
needs of each Executing                            of PSM assesses employment needs                               of agency employment needs
Agency                                             on a case to case basis and provides                          is likely to be included in the
assistance in reorganization, such as                         Public Sector Modernization
in the case of the Office of the                              operation under preparation
Auditor General                                               for IDB financing.
V. Implement transfers both                        Transfers have been implemented as
within and across Executing                        needed
Agencies
- 19-



VI. Design mechanismns to                           No Voluntary Departure scheme    Attrition: Continued low salary
reduce the size of the public                       prepared. Concern expressed by    levels and dissatisfaction caused
sector work force, including                        PSM over loosing most able public  by unfulfilled expectations
inter alia, incentive packages                      servants. However, attrition has  appear to have aggravated the
for voluntary departure                             helped reduce size of the public  problem of attrition in the Public
sector. The total number of filled    Service. The attrition level (net
positions decreased by 15% from  number of staff in a grade/filled
1993 to 1996 from 16,159 to 13,658  positions in the grade) in the
and to 9,339 in 1998             lower grades 1-5, increased from
1.15% in 1993 to 12% in 1995.
In 1994 there were 16,945
authorized positions in grades
1-5 ofwthich 12,575 were filled;
in 1998/9 12,575 positions at
grades 1-5 were authorized and
9,176 were filled.
In 1994, 4,266 positions at the
middle grade 6-10 were
authorized and 2,523 wee filled;
in 1998/9 3,599 positions were
authorized and 1,972 were filled.
In 1994 535 positions at hightr
grades 11-14 were authorized
and 319 were filled; in 1998/9
544 were authorized and 311
filled.
Complete private sector                             Surveys completed in Nov. 1998 by
salary surveys                                      Commonwealth Secretariat and
KPMG (T&T)l Results
consolidated by IDB consultants.
Design a new salary                                 Authorities are developing a      .                             Feedback is awaited on the
structure for Managerial,                           remuneration structure for MPT that                             Bannock work from GOG.
Professional, and Technical                         is expected to be implemented when                              Before implementing the new
(MPT) positions                                     the 1999 wage negotiations are                                  salary structure, a consensus will
completed.                                                     most likely need to be reached
with the "social partners' -
Norms and mechanisns for periodic                              opposition political parties and
adjustment of this remuneration                                public sector unions.
structure vis-a-vis the private sector
remains to be done. The iDB also
recently completed a computerized
compensation model (Bannock,
UK) which will provide the basis for
a remuneration structure; it draws on
the work completed by the
Commonwealth Secretariat and
__________ _ =_____                                         iC______ _______ ______ KPMG
-20-



Component 2: Personnel Management
COMPONENT                    ACTIVITIES                 EXPECTED RESULTS  CURRENT SlTUATIONI                       PROBLEMS AND                   NEXT STEPS AND FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                                                        ACEIEVEMENTS                     CONSTRAINTS                    OPERATIONS
ENCOUNTERED
Develop a modem personnel    Design and establish a     Information on individual   The PRKS has been designed,    The PRKS is essentially a data   The IDB has committed to GOG
management system for the    Personnel Records Keeping  staff accessible to each  hardware has been procured, and the base rather than a Human    in principle to work on a Public
public service and create    System (PRKS)              agency and aggregate      PRKS is being implemented in     Resource Management            Sector Modermization Project
conditions of accountability and                        information accessible to    PSM and 27 ministries and     Information System (HRMS).  (PSMP), originally requested for
improve Personnel Management                            ministries, PSM  and the    departments. The system provides  The system is being used less    FY00 but delayed due to
PSC.                      basic information about posts,   than expected. A system is    technical and political
employees and their salaries and  needed that will allow all   considerations, including related
allowances.                      personnel actions to be       to MIPT compensation. In the
conducted on the system. In that interim, an IDB Technical
way the database would be     Cooperation grant ts proposed to
The availability of information  automatcally updated ssth each  lay the groundwork for the
relating to the staff establishment    personnel action. There is a  PSMP. The IDB operaton may
has improved and, to that extent,   need to improve the functionality address this issue.
Gov't personnel management       of the PRKS to enhance the
capacity has been strengthened.  system's usefulness as a tool for  In the meanwhile, the updating
personnel management          of the PRKS is being considered
in conjunction with the MOF's
Training: the National Data                                    proposal to use project funds to
Management Agency (NDMA) has                                   finance a new payroll system to
carried out a successful training                              avoid Y2K problems (See the
program for the staff ofuser                                   project extension discussion
agencies.                                                      under the Revenue
Admninistration Component 5)
The project provided the MOF
with consulting support to
evaluate the current payroll
system and develop a strategy for
its upgrade. The Bank's May
1999 mimsion recommended that
the new package include
persornnel management
functions.
Revise and Streamline Rules Managers given more     Work completed by a committee of
of Procedure of the Public  authority to hire employees, private sector, gov't, and public
Service Commission        termination of service made sector union officials. Revised rules
easier, disciplinary      have been signed by the President
proceedings shortened, and  and are tn effect.
annual performance
appraisals reinstated
Develop new rules regarding                         Report of a committee (Gov't,    Public Service Unions have not
leave, pension, retirement                          private sector, Public Service   been in agreement with Report
age and travel allowances,                          Union) was submitted to Cabinet in  or the composition of the
etc.                                                December 1998 remains under      Committee, which included
constderation                    representatives of the private
sector. While salarims may be
more generous in the pnvate
sector, other conditions of
service such as those under
consideration, are typically less
generous
Fstablish a newjob        Transparent procedures for  Newjob classification system    Work on the job classification    Additional work may be
classification system for the recruitment, evaluation, and implemented. Needs to be refined.  system was funded by ODA  completed under the proposed
public sector             monitoring of personnel                                    between 1994 and 1996,         IDB Public Sector
including the introduction of the  Modemization Operation and its
new 14 band structure         parallel Technical Cooperation
Grant
Consolidation of modert                             To be done as part of the Public                                    -do-
personnel management                                Service Reform Strategy
system in the executive
agencies, including
employment and salary
administration, performance
evaluation, and incentives
system, and comprehensive
_   public sctor policy
- 21 -



Support effbrts to prepare a  Develop a Long Term    This was initially delegated by GOG                               Once approved by Cabinet, this
long-term strategy and     Public Sector Reform      to the IDB pending outcome of                                     policy statement will provide
program for public sector    Program                 Carter Center work on the National                                guidance on how the public
reform                                               Development Strategy which they                                   service will conduct business in
helped prepare. The Carter Center                                the future.
work is completed. The IDB, with
assistance from an ODA consultant,
has prepared a preliminary
document on a broad public sector
strategy based on consultations with
public sector officials, including
_____________________   ___________________                Permanent Secretaries.
- 22 -



Component 3: Recruitment Program
COMPONENT                ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              CURRENT SITUATION/  PROBLEMS AND                        NEXT STEPS AND
OBJECTIVES                                       RESULTS               ACHIEVEMENTS                 CONSTRAINTS                FUTURE OPERATIONS
ENCOUNTERED
Facilitate adequate staffing  Recruit qualified  Adequate staffing ofkey 42 senior and medium level    Initially GOG tried to recruit Prepare an impact analysis
of Key and Critical      Guyanese senior and     and critical positions to  professionals have been  for specific positions    to determine the effect of
Positions                mid-level professionals  strengthen managerial  recruited, thus making scarce   overseas. This did not  recruitment under the project
for about 50 positions    and technical capacity  technical expertise available.   produce encouraging results. on the overall effectiveness
Performance Indicators   from GS levels 15, 16                         Areas in which recruitment has The Credit Agreement was   of departments for which
From the StaffAppraisal    and the "special"                           been made include:           amended to allow greater    staff were hired
Report of march 9, 1993    category                                    - Technical Officer, Office of  flexibility. Recruitment of
Number of applications                                                 the President                local skilled persons was
received in response to                                                - Asst. Commissioner Inland   allowed as also of persons
promotion activity, number                                             Revenue Dept.                above the retirement age.
of candidates screened and                                             - Subject Specialist, Ministry   GOG was given greater
shortlisted                                                            of Education                 leeway in negotiating the
- Deputy Director National    quantum of incentives to be
Number of positions staffed;                                           Center of Education, Research  paid, keeping in view the
retention rate of the                                                  and Development, MOE         skills of the candidate and
program; attrition                                                     - Senior Physician, Ministry of the relative scarcity of
Health                       his/her skills. This strategy
- Two Anesthetists, Ministry  helped activate the program.
of Health                    However, the program might
- Senior Foreign Service    have been even more
Officer, Ministry of Foreign    successful if critical
Affairs                      mid-level positions had been
- Senior Agricultural officer,  targeted from the beginning.
Ministry of Agriculture
GOG has indicated that the
persons recruited through the
project are making a singular
contribution in their respective
areas of work.
-23 -



Component 4: Regional Administration
COMPONENT                ACTIVITIES            EXPECTED RESULTS CURRENT SITUATION/  PROBLEMS AND                               NEXT STEPS AND
OBJECTIVES                                                             ACHIEVEMENTS                 CONSTRAINTS                FUTURE OPERATIONS
ENCOUNTERED
Improve the effectiveness of Review of         Improved institutional    CARICAD draft final report   Significant delays were  The final report of
service delivery ofthe 10    - the present functions  capacity of the RAs to    and additional work has been   encountered in GOG  CARICAD will include an
Regional Administrations   of RAs;             deliver services        completed as follows:        decision-making, first    impact analysis.
(RAs)                    - operational systems                                                      relating to the engagement of
for the planning,                            -- Local Government          the Consultants, and then on  Periodic monitoring and
Performance Indicator From  execution and                              Operational Manual covering   actions to be taken on their  follow-up on the use ofthe
the StaffAppraisal Report  monitoring of RA                            roles, responsibilities and  recommendations. It is     manuals is needed. This
dated March 9, 1993:     programs and their                            relationships between the    understood that the delay in  support is likely to come
Timely and periodical     integration into the                         Central Gov't, Regional      the Cabinet decision on next from one or more of the
reports, with accuracy, of   central system;                           Democratic Councils,         steps was partly due to the   following sources:
qualitative and quantitative  - powers delegated to                    Municipalities, and          need to build consensus
measures of service delivery the RAs;                                  Neighborhood Democratic      within govemment on the    1. The CDB in their support
by each RA               - adequacy of                                 Councils                     politically sensitive issue of  for strengthening local
resources and lines of                                                    Regional Administration    governments
Increased collection of   accountability for                           -- Operational Manual for
tariffs for services provided  efficient and effective                 Amerindian Local Gov't                                  2. The IDB in their work on
by the RA's [collections    service delivery by the                                                                            infrastructure for
should represent at least    RAs                                       -- Financial Management                                 municipalities
50% ofthe costs of services                                            Manual
(samples) by the mid-term                                                                                                      3. UNDP's Development
evaluation, and at least 80                                            -  Procedures for                                       Cooperation Framework,
% by completion of the                                                 Neighborhood (District)                                 which provides for
project                                                                Councils                                                strengthening RAs, including
local communities, most
The CARICAD Report has                                 likely through NGOs and
been used by the Constitutional                        sharing experiences with
Reform Commission which is                             other countries. This
looking into issues of                                 assistance is pending
decentralization                                       resolution of constitutional
issues regarding
decentralization of
decision-making, which is
currently highly centralized.
Design and implement                         Extensive training and
required institutional                       institution building activities
reforms and new                              have been carried out relating
systems to support a                         to personnel management,
new role for RAs in                          financial management strategic
relation to ministries                       planning accountability, and
transparency in resource
allocation and roles and
responsibilities of different
Regional Administration
officials.
Develop a modern                             Feasibility analysis for
information system for                       developing a Geographical
RAs                                          Information System (GIS)
completed.
- 24 -



Component 5: Revenue Administration/Integrated Financial Management
COMPONENT                ACTIVITIES            EXPECTED RESULTS CURRENT SITUATION/  PROBLEMS AND                               NEXT STEPS AND
OBJECTIVES                                                             ACHIEVEMENTS                 CONSTARAINTS               FUTURE OPERATIONS
ENCOUNTERED
Improve effectiveness of    1. Set up the Revenue  Establishment of a fully   Preparatory actions to  RA Act passed in July 1996  The requested extension of
Tax and Customs           Authority (RA)       functioning Revenue     operationalize the RA have   but is not yet effective;  this project from June 30,
Administration and improve                     Authority with improved  been completed: the CIAT    Board of Governors has not  1999 to December 30. 1999
mobilization of resources   2. Appoint the     institutional capacity for  contract commenced with the   been created as the law is not is contingent upon the RA's
Commissioner Gencral the Inland Revenue and   purpose of defining and     in force and the CG has not  becoming operational.
Performance Indicators:    (CG) of the RA      Customs and Excise      planning for the             been appointed, special
Increased tax and customs                      Departments             implementation of the RA     salaries not implemented,    The CIAT team will prepare
collections [100% by the    3. Give adequate                           (organization, design,       vacancy rate is high (50% in an action plan to give the
mid-term evaluation; and    decision making                            mandates, roles,             customs), many staff are in   RA's management a bird's
200 percent by completion   powers to the RA                           responsibilities, Job        acting positions, morale is  eye view of the concrete
ofthe Project]            Steering Committee                           classification and pay       low. RA was to have been   steps needed for full
structure), the CG and Board  created by 3/31/99.      implementation from the
4. Develop a strategtc                       of Governors have been                                 time the RA is enabled.
plan for the RA                              identified, the draft ofthe  A court decision enjoined the
proposed salary structure has   Government from
5. Develop a Code of                         been completed; a list of    establishing the RA. The
Conduct and Conflict                         current staffof the CED and    Gov't has filed a motion to
of Interest and                              IRD to be transferred to the  have the injunction lifted.
Post-Employment Code                         new RA has been sent to the
for RA Staff                                 Public Service Commission;    If the RA is not
the Code of Conduct has been   operationalized quickly and
dralted, and a complete training the CIAT contract extended,
needs analysis has been      many staff yet to be
prepared                    recruited, who would occupy
responsible positions within
the RA, would not be trained
and many who are trained
may not be suitable for those
positions.
6 Strengthen the                             CIAT Consultants have
In-land Revenue Dept.,                       developed the organizational
including                                    and legal structure, job
descriptions and computer
Preparation of the                           systems.
organtzation structure                       Job evaluation survey
for the new IRD                              completed
Complete a preliminary
job evaluation survey                         Taxpayer Survey nearing
completion
Design and implement
field surveys                                I In addition:
throughout the country                       New Taxpayer Identification
to register potential                        No. (TIN) has been designed
unregistered taxpayers
Trade Licensing and
Miscellaneous Licensing
System designed
New income tax return form
has been designed
Preliminary review completed
for re-engineering business
processes.                   _
- 25 -



7. Strengthen the                           Training: A training needs
Customs and Excise                          assessment was completed for
Dept. (CED):                               the full implementation phase
and training began in selected
Prepare organizational                      areas: a 7 day Management
structure for the new                       Orientation Program, 2 day
CED                                         managing change course and 2
Complete a preliminary                      day communication workshop
job evaluation survey                       was held for CED and IRD
staff
Develop an Importer
Profiling System to
assist in targeting
enforcement actions
Develop a Container
Tracking System to
track movement of
containers received and
released at different
transit sheds
Advance on
introduction of
ASYCUDA
Complete study on the
Guyanese Tariffand
Harmonized System
Complete Study on
Customs Valuation
Integrated Financial   The core of the new  CIDA agreed to finance these                         Under CIDA's GEM I
Management System:  arrangement was to have  activities originally envisaged                     Program, the budgeting
Design and implement been an integrated,    under the PAP through a grant                        system has been put in place
norms, procedures, and decentralized budgeting  financed under the GEM                           and the concept of Program
systems for effective    and accounting system    program                                        Budgeting has been
and efficient budgeting, coordinated by the MOF.                                                 introduced. Under the
accounting, cash     Consultant services,                                                        currently proposed GEM 2
management, debt     software, computer                                                          and 3 programs additional
management, intemal  equipment and training                                                      work will be completed in
control by the Treasury were to have been                                                        the other functional areas,
Secretary, Office of the provided to the key                                                     including multi-year
Budget, Account      financial entities, as well                                                 planning.
General Department   as accounting centers in
and the Auditor      the 11 ministries, 10 RAs,                                                  GOG has recentdy requested
General Department.  the Guyana Defense                                                          that the implementation of a
Force and the Guyana                                                        Y2K compliant payroll
National Service                                                            system be financed through
the project. This is being
considered subject to
extension of the project
- 26 -



Component 6: General Administration
COMPONENT                 ACTMTIES             EXPECTED                CURRENT SITUATION/  PROBLEMS AND                        NEXT STEPS AND
OBJECTIVES                                     RESULTS                 ACHIEVEMENTS                 CONSTRAINTS                FUTURE OPERATIONS
ENCOUNTERED
Improve public sector     Provision of         Meet important physical  A wide range of capital
operations                administrative,      resource needs of various equipment has been acquired
computing,           central gov't agencies and for different govemment
Performance Indicator:    communications, and   RAs and, by taking on the entities at the central and
Increased provision of    transportation       financing of part of the   regional levels, thus helping
services in selected      equipment for        capital budget of the Gov' improve their operational
operational programs      managing operations  t, indirectly enable GOG   efficiency. This equipment
covering the principal    of Executive Agencies to finance increases in    includes: (examples to be
beneficiaries of the                           salaries of public servants added)
component (e.g.
maintenance services in
drainage and irrigation,
availability of educational
materials, and textbooks)
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indc0trIMtri                              Projecte In last P$R                   ActtaaIILNg  est  st mat
NOT INCLUDED IN SAP
See Sections 4 and 10
Output Indicators:
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FROM
SAR - SEE ALSO SECTION 10
Integrated Financial Management:
- Timely provision of accurate accounting                                    In progress with assistance from CIDA and
information to assure compliance with                                         USAID
preparation of official accountstReduction in
non-budgeted and unaccounted for
expenditures within the Ministries,
Departments, and Regional Administrations
[50% reduction by mid-term evaluation; and
100% by project completion]
- Increased tax and customs collections  2-4 years from time of operationalization of  Same
[100% by mid-term evaluation; 200% by  Revenue Authorty
completion of project]
Regional Administrations' System
- Timely and penodical reports, with   Done                                   Done
accuracy, of qualitative and quantitative
measures of service delivery by each R.A.
- Increased collection of tariffs for services   Amounts of tariff increases unavailable from
provided by RAs [collections should    GOG                                    Same
represent at least 50% of the costs of
services by mid-term evaluation, and at least
80% by completion of the Project].
Personnel Management
- Implementation of new personnel grading   Done                              Done
system and agreed salary structure for the
public service, induding the elimination of all
employment and salary regimes outside the
formal grading system
- Achievement of target compression ratios,
and grading system composition of the public Partially done                   Partially done
service [the compression ratio should be at
least 9:1 for levels 1 through 16, and 16:1 for
levels 1 through Special)
- Cancellation of all existing vacances in
grading system levels 1 - 5 at the time of    To be done                      Done
implementation of the new salary scale; and
freezing, or cancellation, of all new vacancies
in the same levels throughout the life of the
project.
General Administration
- Increased provision of services in   Done                                   Done
selected operational programs covering the
principal beneficiaries of the component
- 28 -



Recruitment Program
- Number of applications received in   Targets almost met                      Targets almost met
response to promotion activity; number of
candidates screened and shortlisted
- Number of positions staffed          44 of the revised target of 50 staffed  Same
- Retention/attrition rate of the program  35 retained                         Same
End of project
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ millioln equivalent)
Appraisal   1 Actual/Latest  Percentage
Estimate       Estimate    of Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
Upgrading Staff Salaries                                10.00           11.00          110
Personnel Management                                     0.50            0.54          108
Recruitment Program                                      1.80            0.65          36
Regional Administration Systems                          1.00            0.48           48
Integrated Financial Management/Revenue Admin.           4.00            1.96          49
General Administration                                   4.00            4.89          122
Project Coordinating Unit                                0.70            0.30          43
Total Baseline Cost                                     22.00           19.82
Total Project Costs                22.00           19.82
Total Financing Required                22.00           19.82
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NC8          Other        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      3.60          0.00         2.50          0.00          6.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         4.20          0.00          4.20
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Recruitment(travel and     0.00          0.00         1.70          0.00          1.70
shipping expenses and        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
salary allowances)
6. Incremental Costs of       0.00          0.00         10.00    1    0.00         10.00
the Salary Structure         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      3.60          0.00         18.40         0.00          22.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         [CCBr                        thod            N.B.F.       Total Cost
Category                ~~~~~NCB       Other2
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                         3.80            0.00           1.60           0.00           5.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                      2.10            0.00           0.70           0.00           2.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Recruitment(travel and        0.00            0.00           0.70           0.00           0.70
shipping expenses and           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
salary allowances)
6. Incremental Costs of          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
the Salary Structure            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         5.90            0.00           3.00           0.00           8.90
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Ap raisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate     Pcaop i
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Upgrading Salary          0.00      10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
Structure
Personnel Management      0.50      0.00       0.00      0.54       0.00      0.00     108.0   0.0    0.0
Recruitment Program       1.80      0.00       0.00      0.65       0.00      0.00     36.1    0.0    0.0
Regional Administration   1.00      0.00       0.00      0.48       0.00      0.00     48.0   0.0    0.0
Int. Fin.Mgt./Revenue     4.00      0.00       0.00      1.96       0.00      0.00     49.0   0.0    0.0
Administration
General Administration    4.00      0.00       0.00      4.89       0.00      0.00     122.2   0.0    0.0
Project Coordinating Unit    0.70    0.00      0.00      0.30       0.00      0.00     42.9    0.0    0.0
- 31 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Pre
paration                 6    1 Task Manager (Public
5/92                          Administration Specialist), 1
Financial Management
Specialist, 3 Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/92                     7    1 Task Manager (Public
Administration Specialist), 1
lawyer, I Operations
Analyst, 1 Financial
Management Specialist, 3
Consultants
Supervision
I - 10/93                 4   1 Task Manager (Public                HS                HS
Administration - PSM-
Specialist), I Sr. Public
Administration Specialist, I
Tax Administration
Specialist, I Operations
Analyst
II - 7/94                 3   1 Task Manager (PSM                   S                 HS
Specialist), I Operations
Analyst, I Consultant
111-1 1/94                1   1 Task Manager (PSM                   S                  S
Specialist)
IV-6/95                   I   I Task Manager (PSM                   S                  S
Specialist)
V - 2/96                  2   1 Task Manager (PSM                   S                  S
Specialist), I Sr. Public
Administration Specialist
VI-8/96                   3   1 Task Manager (PSM                   S                  S
Specialist) , 1 Sr. Public
Administration
VII - 6197                1   1 Task Manager (PSM                    S                 S
Specialist)
VIII - 10/97              1   1 Task Manager (PSM                    S                 S
Specialist), I Consultant
IX - 6/98                 2   1 Task Manager (PSM                    S                 S
Specialist), I Sr. Public
Administration Specialist
X - 1/99                  1   1 Task Manager (PSM                    S                  S
Specialist)
- 33 -



ICR
5/99                         2    1 Task Manager, I Sr.                       S                    S
Public Administration
Specialist
(b) Staff:
|     Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate: ::
.______:______ ____________  No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                       13.1                             32.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                           48.4                              87.1
Supervision                                    111.5                            242.1
ICR _                                              4                              12.3
Total                                           173.0                            373.7
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
* Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
* Institutional Development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
N Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
* Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
[B Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                             C HS @ S   C  U  C HU
Z Supervision                                         O HS *S   C  U  OHU
[ Overall                                             O.HS OS   C U   3 HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
I Preparation                                         O HS      S   C U   CHU
i Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S   0  U  C HU
2 Implementation agency performance                   C HS 0 S   0  U         HU
N Overall                                             OHS OS       U CHU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report for the Public Administration Project (PAP) to Guyana, Report No. 11258-GUA
of March 9, 1993
2. Memorandum of the President for the Public Administration Project to Guyana, Report No.
P5901 -GUA of March 9, 1993
3. Development Credit Agreement for the Public Administration Project between the Republic of Guyana
and Guyana, Credit No. 2480-GUA of April 8, 1993
4. Guyana PAP Supervision and Back-to-Office Reports, 590/PSRs, Aide Memoire, 1993-1999
5. Guyana PAP Credit Amendments/Extensions, 1994-1999
6. CARICAD's Final Report on Regional Administrations, 1999
7. CIAT's Final Report on the Revenue Authority, 1999
8. PAD for the El Nino Emergency Assistance Project to Guyana, Report No. 18018-GUA, September
29, 1998
9. Draft President's Report for the proposed IDA Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development
Credit (FPID) to Guyana, October 1999
10. Draft President's Report for the Proposed IDA Public Service Reform Adjustment Credit (PSRSAC)
to Guyana, November 1999
11. Memorandum of the President on Assistance to Guyana under the HIPC Initiative, May 3, 1999
12. Implementation Completion Report for the Guyana Technical Assistance Credit, Report No.
16199-GUA of December 30, 1996
13. Implementation Completion Report for the Guyana Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit,
Report No. 17999 of June 11, 1999
14. Final HIPC Document, Report No. P7206 GUA, December 6, 1997
15. IDA's Country Procurement Assessment Review for Guyana, 1999
16. Caribbean Countries Public Sector Modernization in the Caribbean, Report No. 15185-CRG, April
1996
17. Guyana: Public Sector Review, A World Bank Country Study, 1993
18. IDB's Draft Design of the Public Sector Modernization Program, TC#99-0400-2, October 1999
19. ODA's Mid-Term Output to Purpose Review of the Guyana Public Service Reform Programme, May
1996
- 37 -






IBRD 25723
GUYANA
Av                                          K-k
+    G!   Matlhewi7 REGIONN oEJIA
4                 9              TTOWAKAIMA      .           PlCkerSg I,     ANNA REGINA
ADVENTURE      'e*
b C?A,  UPNAM   -   .9 GEORGETOWN
~~~~~~~~~REGION  7                                 A ,,  REGIO4
|  NEWAMSTERDAM
//    KLRUPUNG  >._                                       e'      REGION 5               Roee    - l 
<- KcmorrzrigX   tA   / ,1     /   iT+ShK \   Aq,s,          RA       CORR VER-ION
C ~>  CKENZ E    FRRINDSH6  ,      Skeld-o
-   PRIMARY ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARD
\   /              _ I ;-ti~~~~~~~~POTARO '- NUA2       ITUN 3    AAI  
PAN  UYANA                  _ A_r    LAND NA     y N rCr  |AD
\< _             <        ' ~~~~~~~/MAHDIA                   0 KWAKW
Od MH I,                                             R    I \  '
)      { HO/p >,REGION 8  4RGfN1                                      J
S         S2<v    / r              ~~~~~~~~~~KURUUKRI   J   8 
B yAR    J   of  -U    R  I N    A    M                                                        E
t    )MThe  boundaries, colors,
~~~~~-s~~~~~e . -int eoiao,,s  and any
t \   3  /       '  |     5            o~~~~ther information sh-w
          PRIMARY ROADS                      tX/ 9                                                 n  this map  do  not
SECONDARY ROADS                      /'        _         ,\                  >The World  Bank  Group,
TRACKS                                         I                                         ,  status of any te'r-ifory,
RAILROADS  / g /                      ..      .  )        t      ~~~~~~~or cmy  endorsement
i)NATIONAL CAPITAL                                    1                                      drnJb -CXbourdories
O TOWNS                          [/                  
a ~~~~~~~~LETH EM:': 
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT         j1-1                                                        _
RIVERS                     s(,j
REGION BOUNDARIES              \       ,                             .       \- 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    ADCE                         
WIHABAI  [                 R EG I ON  9       {v
MILES                  D | \   \I\
0   10  20  30  40  I"s)   AISHALTON  
0 20   40     60    8                            
KILOMETERS     
ES37>   Areaof MapV "                  
,    S K     ~~~~~B R A Z I L                                               B RA Z IL 
MARCH 1 994



