Page  1
June 2, 1997
Honorable Bharat Jagdeo
Senior Minister of Finance
Main and Urquhart Streets
Georgetown, Guyana
      Re: GUYANA (Public Administration Project)
   Credit No. 2480-GUA
   Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the DCA) dated
April 8, 1993 between the Republic of Guyana (the Borrower) and the
International Development Association (the Association), as amended.
In response to the Borrower’s request to, inter alia, expand the
Recruitment Program under Part F of the Project to enable the Borrower to
finance incentive packages to attract local guyanese to work on Key and
Critical Positions (as such term is defined in Section 1.02(g) of the DCA),
we are pleased to inform you that the Association has agreed to amend the
DCA as follows:
I. DCA:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended by replacing the term “DIEC” and its
definition in paragraph “(d)” with the term “Service Agreement” which
shall read as follows:
       “(d)
‘Service Agreement’ means any of the agreements referred to
       in Section 3.09(b) of this Agreement;”.
2.
The definition of the term “Executing Agency” in paragraph “(e)” of
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“(e)
‘Executing Agency’ means any of the following agencies of the
       Borrower, which is identified in the Action Plan as being responsible
       for the execution of a part of the Project: the Supreme Court of
       Judicature, the Ministries (as hereinafter defined) and affiliated
       Departments, the Constitutional Agencies, the RAs (as hereinafter
       defined) and the Semi-Autonomous Agencies (as hereinafter defined);
       and the term ‘Executing Agencies’ means two or more of these agencies
       referred to collectively;”.
3.
Section 3.09 is hereby amended to read as follows:
       “Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections
       3.06, 3.07 and 3.08 of this Agreement and with regard to Part F of
       the Project, the Borrower:
       (a)
through the Project Coordinating Unit and in consultation with
             PSM, the Ministry of Finance and the corresponding Executing
             Agency, and with the Association’s approval, shall not later
             than September 30,1997: (i) complete the recruitment of the
             candidates referred to in Part F.1 of the Project; (ii)
             determine the functions and responsibilities of the candidates
             referred to (i) herein in the corresponding Executing Agency;
             and (iii) determine the amount and conditions of the incentives
             as referred to in Parts F.2 (c) and F.3 of the Project;
       (b)
through the Project Coordinating Unit, shall enter into an
             agreement (the Service Agreement) with each of the selected
             candidates referred to in paragraph (a)(i) above under terms
             and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
       (c)
through the Project Coordination Unit, shall beginning
             December 31, 1993, prepare quarterly progress reports on key
             issues, targets and recommendations for the implementation of
Page  2
             Part F of the Project;
       (d)
by no later than one month after the Effective Date, through
             PSC, shall issue recruitment guidelines, satisfactory to the
             Association, including, inter alia, procedures and criteria
             for the evaluation of candidates to fill the selected positions;
       (e)
through PSM, under the supervision of PSC, shall manage the
             incentive package provided under Parts F.2 and F.3 of the
             Project; and 
       (f)
through PSM and the National Project Director, shall
             periodically review the progress of Part F of the Project and
             the targets reached by the Project Coordination Unit with
             respect to the performance indicators established in the
             respective Action Plan, based upon the reports referred to
             in paragraph (c) above.”.
4.
The words “Part F.2” in paragraph (a) of Section 3.10 are replaced by
the words “Parts F.2 and F.3”.
5.
A new Section 3.14 is added which shall read as follows:
      “Section 3.14. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
      Borrower shall not amend, assign, terminate, waive or fail to enforce
      any Service Agreement or any provision thereof.”.
6.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set
forth in the annex to this Amendment Letter.
7.
The words “Part F.2” in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 1 are replaced
with the words “Parts F.2 and F.3”.
8.
A new paragraph 3 is added in Schedule 1 which shall read as follows:
       “3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
       drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
       under Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule to
       finance recruitment costs of a professional under Part F of the
       Project unless the Borrower has signed the Service Agreement with
       such professional.”.
9.
Part F of Schedule 2 is hereby modified to read as follows:
Part F: Recruitment Program
1.
Strengthening of the managerial and technical capacity of the
Executing Agencies through a recruitment strategy focused on attracting
qualified applications of: (a) Guyanese professionals residing abroad
and, exceptionally, other foreign professionals; and (b) about ninety
Guyanese professionals residing locally.
2.
Provision of incentive packages to the Guyanese effectively
recruited under Part F.1(a) above, including: (a) one-way airline tickets
for the expatriate or other professionals and his/her immediate family;
(b) cost of shipment of household and personal effects up to a maximum
of 6,000 kilograms for expatriates with children and 5,000 kilograms for
expatriates with no children; and (c) a lump sum incentive to be determined
in the manner provided in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement.
3.
Provision of incentive packages to the Guyanese effectively recruited
under Part F.1(b) above to be determined in the manner provided in Section
3.09 (a) of this Agreement.”.
II. Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of
which shall be an original, and shall become effective on the date of this
Amendment Letter once the Association has received evidence, satisfactory
to the Association that the Borrower has modified the recruitment guidelines
referred to in Section 3.09 of the DCA to reflect the modifications intro-
duced to the DCA through this Amendment Letter. Please confirm your agreement
Page  3
to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the two counterparts of this
Amendment Letter. Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed
original to us.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Krishna Challa
       Krishna Challa
       Acting Director
       Country Department III
       Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
By /s/ Bharat Jagdeo
Authorized Representative
Date:
June 4, 1997
ANNEX
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated               % of
                              (Expressed in              Expenditures
"Category                     SDR Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1)
Goods, except for         4,145,000
   100% of foreign
       Part A of the Project
   expenditures and 
          85% of local
                                                        expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services,    2,630,000
   100%
       except for Part A of
       the Project
(3)
Recruitment costs         1,225,000
   100%
       under Part F of the
       Project
(4)
Refunding of Project        650,000
   Amount due
       Preparation Advance
   pursuant to
          Section 2.02
                                                        (c) of this
                                                        Agreement
       TOTAL                    8,650,000"
