Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7313-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Agricultural Transition Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 15, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7313-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
(B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated 
September 1, 1999 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications 
set forth below (the General Conditions),  constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or 
services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the 
use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any 
time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
Page  3
-
2
–
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Administration Agreement” means the Agreement referred to in Section 
3.09 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Administrator” means the financial administrator referred to in Section 
3.09 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Annual Operational Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(d)  
“Beneficiary” means a public or private entity with legal personality, 
including farmers, agro-entrepreneurs, trader associations, universities, research centers 
and technological development centers, which has met the eligibility criteria specified in 
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), and, as a result, has been granted or is 
eligible to be granted a Subproject Cofinancing (as hereinafter defined)  for activities 
under the Project; 
 
(e) 
“Board of Directors” means a board to be appointed by MADR (as 
hereinafter defined) comprising representatives of the private and public sector, with 
structure, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank including the 
responsibility of ensuring consistency between Project activities and the Borrower’s 
public policies and approving each Annual Operational Plan; 
 
(f) 
“Competitive Fund” means the fund to be established to finance 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.2 of the Project;  
 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
services, and co-financings referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3
–
(i) 
“Environmental Action Plan” or “EAP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental framework for the Project, dated May 6, 2005, that contains specific 
environmental rules and procedures for the Project, as said plan may be updated from 
time to time; 
 
(j) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(l) “MADR” 
means 
Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development; 
 
(m) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement, dated May 6, 2005, said manual may be amended from time to time with 
the Bank’s prior approval; 
 
(n)  
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Pest Management Framework” means the Borrower’s plan dated May 6, 
2005, outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring 
guidelines in relation to activities under the Project involving the use of pest control 
products, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval; 
 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
29, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
(q) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“SPS” means the Borrower’s National Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures System; 
 
Page  5
-
4
–
(t)  
“Subproject” means a set of activities carried out in support of the 
purposes specified in Part A.2 of the Project, which set is selected, approved and 
implemented in accordance with the requirements of the Operational Manual;  
 
(u) 
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower 
(through MADR) and a Beneficiary for the financing of a Subproject; and 
 
(v) 
“Subproject Co-financing” means a monetary transfer made, or proposed 
to be made, by the Borrower through the MADR out of the proceeds of the Loan to a 
Beneficiary for the partial financing of a Subproject in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan. 
 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  Such fee shall be 
payable not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Page  6
-
5
–
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MADR with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, social, financial, public 
utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
–
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower (through MADR) shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower  
(through MADR) shall carry out the Project in accordance with:  (a) the Operational 
Manual; (b) the Annual Operational Plans; (c) the EAP; (d) the Pest Management 
Framework; and (e) the Key Performance Indicators.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of these documents without 
the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04.  At all times during Project implementation the Borrower (through 
MADR) shall maintain: 
 
(a) 
a Project coordination unit within MADR, responsible for overall Project 
planning, coordination, implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and with 
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, staffed with at least an 
executive Project coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement 
specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank; and  
 
(b) 
an expert panel comprising independent scientists, and with structure, 
responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
reviewing 
and evaluating Subproject proposals for the Competitive Fund and recommending 
(through MADR) selected proposals for financing to the Board of Directors;  
 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through the PCU, shall issue an operational manual 
satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed 
arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  
 
(a) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements 
thereof;  
 
Page  8
-
7
–
(b) 
the criteria and methods for the selection, approval, implementation and 
monitoring of the Subprojects and their Beneficiaries (which methods shall include 
selection on a competitive basis following a peer review process); 
 
(c) 
a model Subproject Agreement; 
 
(d) 
a model to be used in the preparation of FMRs; 
 
(e) 
a model to be used in the preparation of the Annual Operational Plans; 
 
(f) 
the Key Performance Indicators;  
 
(g) 
the environmental criteria for screening and selecting Subprojects, and 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for any such Subprojects, which could 
possibly have negative environmental effects; and 
 
(h) 
the procedures related to the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, 
handling, storing, and safe disposal of any pesticides used in the carrying out of 
Subprojects. 
 
Section 3.06 
The Borrower (through MADR) shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Key Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and  
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth Project review (the mid-term review), jointly with 
the Bank, of such scope as set forth in the Operational Manual, on the progress achieved 
in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower (through MADR) shall:  
Page  9
-
8
–
(i) 
not later than November 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in November 30, 2005, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review, a Project operational plan for the following 
calendar year, such plan to specify: (A) the activities to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the respective 
calendar year; (B) the implementation schedule; and (C) the 
required financial and human resources; and  
 
(ii) 
upon
the Bank’s approval, carry out the Annual Operational Plan 
in accordance with its terms.  
 
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any Annual Operational Plan if 
the Bank has determined that the Borrower is not carrying out the Project as provided in 
this Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
taken therefor. 
 
Section 3.08.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower (through MADR) shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.09. (a) For the purposes of providing assistance to MADR in the 
administration of Project funds with respect to the carrying out the Project, the Borrower, 
through MADR, shall enter into an agreement with a financial administrator (the 
Administrator) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Administration 
Agreement), which agreement shall include, 
inter alia
,
the Administrator’s obligation to 
maintain, on behalf of MADR, records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures of the Project, in order to enable the Borrower to comply with 
its obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower, through MADR, shall exercise its rights and carry 
out its obligations under the Administration Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce the Administration Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  10
-
9
–
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Administrator (pursuant to the 
Administration Agreement) to establish and maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the Administrator (pursuant to the 
Administration Agreement) to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  11
-
10 
–
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) 
Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the 
Administrator (pursuant to the Administration Agreement) to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Administrator shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Administration Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01 The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Page  12
-
11 
–
Conditions, namely that the Administration Agreement has been duly executed by the 
parties thereto. 
 
Section 6.02. The date October 13, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  13
-
12 
–
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 8 
 
Bogotá, República de Colombia
 
Facsimile:  (57-1) 350-9344 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13 
–
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By  /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Pamela Cox 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  15
-
14 
–
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:   
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) Goods, 
consultan
t’s 2,800,000 
100% 
 
services, training and operating 
 
costs under Part A.1 of 
 the 
Project 
 
(2) 
Works, goods, consultant’s 
7,300,000 
100% 
 
services, training and operating 
 
costs under Part B of 
 the 
Project 
 
(3) Goods, 
consultant’s 
2,000,000 
100% 
 
services, training and operating 
 
costs under Part C of 
 the 
Project 
 
(4) 
Subprojects  
16,150,000 
100% of goods, 
 
works and services 
 
of
the portion 
 
financed by 
 
the Borrower 
 
through a 
 
Subproject 
 
Co-financing 
 
(5) Unallocated 
1,750,000 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
30,000,000
Page  16
-
15 
–
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms: 
 
(a) 
“training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable costs of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of 
training facilities and equipment and training materials; and  
 
(b) 
“operating costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on 
the account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including insurance, 
vehicle and equipment operation, communication expenses, small refurbishing (as 
necessary), transport, travel, per diem, and supervision costs and local non-consultant 
contractual staff salaries but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service 
at the national and at the local levels. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 
25, 2005. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for which no prior 
review is contemplated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In case the first such 
request submitted to the Bank occurs before any withdrawal has been made from the 
Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
Page  17
-
16 
–
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
Page  18
-
17 
–
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  19
-
18 
–
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of three million Dollars ($3,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19 
–
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  21
-
20 
–
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to 
strengthen the Borrower’s agricultural national 
science and technology system and SPS by supporting joint participation of both public 
and private sectors through the mechanism of production chains and thereby increase the 
competitiveness of the Borrower’s agriculture sector and improve the accessibility of 
export-potential products to international markets.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Knowledge Generation and Innovation
Support the provision of technology and innovation to strengthen the 
agricultural chain actors in the definition, co-financing and implementation of research 
and development through: 
 
1. 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) 
to develop research and development agendas for selected production chains; and  
 
2. 
operation of a competitive fund to foster increased demand and harness 
scientific and technological capacity through the co-financing of productive chains 
research and development subprojects. 
 
Part B
:
National Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures System
Strengthen the SPS to enable it to respond to the sanitary standards of 
international markets and to enhance admissibility of the Borrower’s agricultural 
products into these markets through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment (as necessary), including:  
 
1. 
provision of training to professionals working within SPS; 
 
2. 
carrying out of capacity building activities to mitigate chains-specific 
sanitary barriers to commercialization of beef products and fruits and vegetables; 
 
3. 
design and implementation of the first phase of a national SPS 
information network; 
 
Page  22
-
21 
–
4. 
design and implementation of an authorization process to allow for 
delegation of audit and/or test and diagnosis laboratory activities to private laboratories; 
and 
 
5. 
technology transfers of best practices on the improvement of sanitary and 
phytosanitary conditions of agricultural production. 
 
Part C
:
Project Management Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) to assist 
the PCU achieve effective and efficient Project implementation through the carrying out 
of standard Project management, monitoring and evaluation activities. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22 
–
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
December 15, 2013 
10% 
 
June 15, 2014 
8% 
 
December 15, 2014 
8% 
 
June 15, 2015 
8% 
 
December 15, 2015 
8% 
 
June 15, 2016 
8% 
 
December 15, 2016 
8% 
 
June 15, 2017` 
8% 
 
December 15, 2017 
8% 
 
June 15, 2018 
8% 
 
December 15, 2018 
8% 
 
June 15, 2019 
10% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
Page  24
-
23 
–
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  25
-
24 
–
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost between $5,000,000 and 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model 
bidding documents. Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be 
used, said model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any 
change or departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval.  
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
Page  26
-
25 
–
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract. 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
 
(d)  
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner in which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract  and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Commercial 
Practices
.
Items for Subprojects under Part A.2 of the 
Project, may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank 
and reflected in the Operational Manual. 
 
Page  27
-
26 
–
4.  
Direct Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines  may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Commercial 
Practices
.
Services for Subprojects under Part A.2 of the 
Project may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank 
and reflected in the Operational Manual. 
 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
Page  28
-
27 
–
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to the Prior 
Approval of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
