                     INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                                   APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 05/25/2005                                     Report No.: 32457

1. Project Statistics
Country: Colombia                               Project ID: P082167
Project Name: Agricultural Transition
Task Team Leader: Matthew A. McMahon
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 25, 2005        Estimated Board Date: June 28, 2005
Managing Unit: LCSER                            Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                                Loan
Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);Rural non-farm income generation
(S);Rural policies and institutions (S)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             30.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):               0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):               0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):               0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
        BORROWER                                                           0.00
        LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                                 2.00
                                                                           2.00
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                           Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)         Yes [ ]      No [X]

2. Project Objectives
The project aims to strengthen the National Agricultural Science and Technology and
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Systems by supporting the joint participation of both the
public and private sectors, through the mechanism of production chains, thereby
contributing to the competitiveness of Colombian agriculture and improving the
accessibility of export-potential products to international markets.
 This Project will have national coverage and benefit those agents linked to the
production chains on which public policy will focus the instruments financed through this
operation. Specific provisions will be adopted to make sure that small producers
involved in those chains will not be excluded from the benefits derived from the project,
particularly by putting in place dissemination mechanisms that assure their proper
participation in the relevant activities proposed.

 The main project indicators are:
 Component 1: Results will be evaluated using the following key performance indicators
(see Annex 3 and the Operational Manual): (i) no. of R&D agendas developed and
financed in a participatory and decentralized manner; (ii) increase in the percentage of
co-financing of the R&D agenda by the production chain participants; and (iii) no. of

introduced innovations which have satisfactorily reached their economic, institutional,
social and environmental goals; and (iv) improved capacity within the Ministry of
Agriculture responsible for the continued implementation of a public R&D agenda for
the agriculture sector, co-financed with the private sector.
 Component 2: Strengthening of the National Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
System, will be measured by: (i) the number of staff trained in animal and plant health
and food safety, in handling of SPS information systems, and in handling of the
authorization method; (ii) a first phase of a SPS information system under operation; (iii)
authorization system in operation; (iv) fulfilment of conditions required for international
recognition of beef products and uchuva admissibility; and (v) no. of officials and
extensionists trained in Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) and Good Manufacturing
Practices (GMPs) knowledge.

3. Project Description
Component 1: Knowledge Generation and Innovation (US $ 22.1 million)
 The aim of this Component is to support the provision of technology and innovation
through the strengthening of agricultural production chain actors in the definition, co-
financing and implementation of R&D, as well as the preparation of participatory and
demand driven R&D agendas around certain production chains and the implementation
and co-financing of these agendas through a Competitive Fund.
 To achieve this objective the component will finance: (i) the development of R&D
agendas for twenty production chains, which will entail the carrying out of the
prospective studies for these agendas as well as the evaluation and strengthening of the
capacity of chains to develop, co-finance and implement these agendas; (ii) the operation
of a Competitive Fund that will co-finance production chains? R&D subprojects which
are consistent with the prospective agendas; (iii) capacity building within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MADR) to manage the allocation of public resources to the agendas already
defined and to the development and implementation of new production chains? R&D
agendas.
 The activities to be financed in each of the chains will reflect its expressed demand and
capacity to implement and co-finance its own prospective R&D agenda.The result will be
to optimize the allocation of resources for technology and innovation, and through co-
financing mechanisms to foster increased private sector investment as well as increased
participation of para-fiscal funds and territorial governments to support scientific and
technological innovation in the agricultural sector.
 Chain research agendas will be complemented with an agenda that, at the national level
will deal with cross-sectoral issues, to be jointly defined with the Agricultural Sector-
related National Science and Technology System actors, under the leadership of the
MADR and the National Agricultural Science and Technology Program Council
(CPNCTA) attached to COLCIENCIAS, which will provide financial support.
 The resulting agendas will be the basis for the implementation of the Competitive Fund
which will be focused on those production chains prioritized by the GOC. Among the
criteria used for allocating resources to the various subprojects in the Competitive Fund
will be projected economic and social benefits, environmental sustainability,
complementarity with other ongoing initiatives, and the impact in terms of scientific and

technological capacity building. The Operational Manual for the project will specify in
detail the implementation of the Fund.
 Since research subprojects to be financed through this component will take up to three
years to be carried out, financing of subprojects chosen through years 3 and 4 calls should
be extended to years 5 and 6; that is, they will go beyond the deadline set for
implementation of this operation with World Bank loan resources. Additionally, once the
project finishes an evaluation study will be carried out and on this basis the GOC will
decide on the financing paradigm to be adopted in the allocation of public resources to
agricultural R&D in the future.

 Component 2: Strengthening of the National Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
System (US $ 7.8 million)
 The aim of Component 2 is to strengthen the Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
System, enabling it to respond to the sanitary standards of international markets and
thereby enhance the admissibility of agricultural products to these markets.
 To achieve this objective the component will finance the following activities:(i) training
professionals and technicians attached to the SPS systems; (ii) capacity strengthening (i.e.
training, development of procedures, equipment, infrastructure) to mitigate the chains-
specific sanitary barriers to beef products; (iii) capacity strengthening (i.e. training,
development of procedures, equipment, infrastructure) to mitigate the chains-specific
sanitary barriers to fruits and vegetables; (iv) designing and implementing a national SPS
information network; (v) designing and implementing an authorization system allowing
for Audit and/or Test and Diagnosis Laboratory activities to be delegated to a third party;
(vi) technology transfer on best practices to improve the sanitary and phytosanitary
conditions of agricultural production.

 To improve the impact of this project, needs identified in the SPS system were
prioritized vis-?-vis requirements of two production chains (beef, and uchuva-Physalis)
showing a competitive potential particularly in the US market and which would have a
spill-over effect to other chains. The beef chain was chosen within the livestock sector
because its products are highly complex in sanitary terms, not only because they face
zoo-sanitary barriers but also other food safety-related barriers. Although the investment
plan may have been designed on the basis of overcoming barriers for a particular fruit
(uchuva) [Physalis peruviana or Andean berry], its range covers the needs being faced by
a large share of the fruit and vegetables chain to successfully access international
markets.

 This component will have the following products: (i) staff of institutions attached to the
SPS duly trained in the different subcomponent areas; (ii) first phase of the SPS national
information network in operation; (iii) authorization system in operation; (iv)
achievement of conditions required for international recognition of beef product
admissibility; (v) fulfilment of conditions required for international recognition of fruit
and vegetable specific product chain admissibility (uchuva);and (vi) officials and
extensionists trained in Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) and Good Manufacturing
Practices (GMPs) techniques.

 The implementation of this component will take advantage of the achievements
provided by other initiatives. Such is the case for the Support to Productive Partnership
project, currently under operation, whose producer organizations will be targeted as
potential beneficiaries of technology transfer on Good Agricultural Practices.
 Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US $ 2.1 million)
 The aim of this component is to ensure proper project management and execution and
will finance a Project Coordination Unit which will be attached to the MADR?s
Technology Development and Sanitary Protection Directorate (DDTPS) and be
responsible of the general management of the project. A Project Coordinator will be
appointed who would be reporting to the DDTPS Director on matters related to Project
implementation. The PCU will be composed of a Project Coordinator, a Financial
Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, an M&E Specialist, two Knowledge and Innovation
Specialists (one responsible for coordinating Subcomponent 1 activities and other
responsible for coordinating Subcomponent 2 activities of Component 1 of the Project), a
SPS Specialist and a Secretary. In addition, MADR will assign at least two counterpart
officers to work in close relationship with PCU?s M&E and Financial Specialists, as a
mean to strengthen MADR?s institutional fiduciary capacity.
 The PCU will be responsible of the general coordination of the Project?s
implementation. To carry out this task, the PCU will have the following responsibilities
among others: (i) implementation and monitoring of the Project at the national level; (ii)
to be the principal contact with the World Bank in Project supervision; (iii) to coordinate
the monitoring and evaluation system and Project audit; (iv) maintain the Project?s
Operational Manual up-to-date; (v) supervision of the Funds Administrator that will be
contracted for Project resource management; (vi) to consolidate and update the Project
annual operative plans; (vii) to periodically update the Procurement Plan; (viii) to
consolidate physical and financial progress reports to the Bank and other institutions; and
(ix) to prepare credit disbursement requirements and ensure on the time flow of funds.
 The MADR, through a public bidding, will hire a Funds Administrator for the Project
funds administration. The main responsibilities of this entity will be: (i) to sign contracts
and requests to acquire goods and services, based on the terms of reference (ToR),
technical specifications and requirements made by MADR through the PCU; (ii) to make
the payments of each one of the contracts and acquisitions according to MADR request;
(iii) to carry out Project accountancy; (iv) to update Project income and expenditures and
(v) to prepare and submit on the time and format-based reports as requested by PCU.
 The Minister of Agriculture will appoint a Project Board of Directors to provide
strategic guidance on Project implementation, and to ensure it conforms to national
policies. The Board will be chaired by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Rural
Development. It will be composed of the Deputy Director of the National Department of
Planning or its delegate; the Director of the Colombian Institute for the Development of
Science and Technology (COLCIENCIAS); the Director of the ICA; the Chairman of the
National Council of Agriculture Secretaries on behalf of the regions (CONSA); and four
private sector representatives. For details see Annex 6.
 Expert Panel (Peer Reviewers). The Expert Panel will review and evaluate subproject
proposals for the Competitive Fund, and recommend through the MADR selected
proposals for financing to the Board of Directors.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project will have national coverage and may potentially trigger OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Policy and the OP 4.09 Pest Management Policy.

5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team
Ms Indira Janaki Ekanayake (LCSER)
Mr Abdelaziz Lagnaoui (ESDQC)
Ms Elena Correa (LCSEO)


6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes          No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                          X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                              X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                               X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                           X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X


II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management

A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues

1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
Section D.4 on Social, Section D.5 on Environment, and Section D.6 on Safeguard
policies of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Annex 10 gives the summary of
the Environmental Assessment (EA) and the Social Assessment conducted during the
project preparation phase and the proposed Action Plans to mitigate potential triggers of
this project on: OP/BP 4.01 Environmental policy and OP 4.09 on Pest management. In
addition the annex 10 also addresses the social aspects (Small producers Development
Framework) within which the project would target rural small producers.

 No potential large scale or irreversible impacts on either the environment or through the
use of pesticides and negative social impacts are expected from this project.

 During the mid-term review and according to the proposed plans appropriate monitoring
will be done with the help of specialists to ensure due diligence of safeguards and any
necessary modifications of the implementation plans.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
By following good practices on safe environmental management practices as described in
the (i) Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and (ii) Pest management Framework (PMF),
minimal negative impact is anticipated due to the Project and its activities/subprojects.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
Not Applicable.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
1.      The borrower in collaboration with the project preparation team (including
consultants) has prepared the appropriate Action plan/safeguard framework documents,
which were revised and finalized during the project appraisal period. The recommended
and agreed follow-up activities as stated in the Project Operational Manual would be
implemented during the project life. At each supervision mission stage and mid-term
review stage the process would be reevaluated and necessary adjustments will also be
made as appropriate to the prevalent conditions.

 The safeguard documents include:
 a.     Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
 b.     Pest Management Framework (PMF)
 c.     Small producers Development Framework (SDF)

 2. The project management unit has drafted the Operational Manual that describes in
detail the approach to implementation of the above mentioned plans. The project
implementation team and the Expert Panel is expected to have the capacity to screen
subprojects at the calls for proposal stage, mid-term, and and post implementation stage
in line with the safeguard policies of the Bank. In addition the safeguards budget make
provisions to use the services of safeguard specialists/thematic specialists as consultants
to the project. The project component 3 is set up for the monitoring and evaluation of
compliance and coordinate training activities related to safeguards when needed. The
project would actively support integrated pest management strategies in both the overall
Project and subprojects implementation using appropriate good practices. When needed
the project would draw on additional local and international expertise for each of the
technical components.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The information sharing among the project beneficiaries is being done as part of the
Dissemination strategy of the environmental assessment. In order to ensure that this
information reaches the main stakeholders involved, the following dissemination
guidelines have been drawn up:
 a).    The Plan publicly made available through the Ministry of Agriculture?s website
(www.minagricultura.gov.co) and in the Info shop of the Bank;

 b).    Environmental criteria will be publicised within each of the Calls for Proposals to
build awareness on the environmental dimension; and
 c).    The SPS information system network will be used to disseminate specific
environmental issues related to the activities on beef and uchuva production chains and
its specialized clientele.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date

Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     03/22/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 04/22/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  04/21/2005
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Pest Management Process:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     03/22/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 04/22/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  04/21/2005
* If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
The Environmental action plan and the Pest management framework are being disclosed
in the country through the web site and Notice Boards of the Ministry of Agriculture.



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA         Yes
report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the            Yes
credit/loan?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                       Yes
Is a separate PMP required?                                                      Yes
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by the regional safeguards        Yes
team? Are PMP requirements included in project design?If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's         Yes
Infoshop?

  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a      Yes
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities   Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project  Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the          Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the            Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?



  D. Approvals


Signed and submitted by:                              Name                        Date
Task Team Leader:                  Mr Matthew A. McMahon                        04/21/2005
Environmental Specialist:          Ms Indira Janaki Ekanayake                   04/21/2005
Social Development Specialist      Ms Elena Correa                              04/21/2005
Additional Environmental and/or    Mr Abdelaziz Lagnaoui                        04/21/2005
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:   Mr Jean-Roger Mercier                        04/21/2005
 Comments:
Sector Manager:                    Mr Mark E. Cackler                           04/21/2005
 Comments:

