R-300-TLP               sRETURN TO
REPORTS
XA2tL~X     RES RICTED
CIRCULATIING C'PY     ONE    WL       Rep,ort No. PP-8a
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
. *1
This report is for official use only I  the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be publisheu, quoted or cited without Bank Group authocization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANTK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A                     A JOINT IDA-UNFPA POPULATION PROJECT
INDONESIA
44
February 29, 1972
Population Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
U.S.$ 1.00  =   Rp 41.
Rp 1        =   U.S.$ 0.0024
Rp 1 million=   U.S.$ 2,400
Indonesia Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31
GLO I S S A R Y
Abbreviations
ABRI        = Armed Forces
A.KRI       = Police
ANK         = Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
BAPPENAS    = National Economic Planning Agency
BPP         = Office of Educational Development
DIP         = Authority for Expenditure of Government Budget Funds
DKD         = Voluntary Village Worker
FP          = Faxnily Planning
GDP         = Gross Domestic Product
IPH         = Institu1le of Public Health
IPPA        = Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association
IPPF        = International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD         = Intra Uterine Device
KAP         = Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice
LEKNAS      = Indonesian Institute of Sciences
LKBN        = National Family Planning Institute
MCH         = Maternal and Child Health
NFPCB       = National Family Planning Coordinating Board
NTB         = National Training Board
NTC            Nat:ional Training Center
PCC         = Project Coordinating Committee
PIU         = Project Implementation Unit
PKC         = Assistanau Nurse
PKE         = Assistant l9iidwife
PSC         = PopnuJation Study Center
PTC         = Provincial Training Center
RSU         = General Hospital Ad1ministered by the Ministry of Health
STC         = Subtraining Center
SURURI      = Survey & Business Research Indonesia
TCPS        = Yaws Examiner
UN             United Nations
UNESCO      = United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA       = United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      = United Nations Childrexn's Fund
USAID       = Unit,ed States Agency for International Developmen-t
WHO            World Health Organization
Indonesian 'erms
DUKUN       = Indigenous Mid-wife
KABUP,ATEN  = Regency
KAWEDANAN   = District
KETJAMATAN  = Subdistrict
MANTRI      = Male Nurse
BUPATI      = Regent



INDONESIA: BASIC DATA
1970 (Except where indicated)
Area ........................................     .    ....... 1,904,345 km2
Population ............................        ........... 121 million
Density:
Indonesia ..................................... r64/1km2
Java and Madura .................................... 590/km2
Birth Rate ................ .............................       8/1i0,O
Death Rate ....................... .................... ..      2/1,000
Rate of' Population Growth  ................................ 2.6% per annum
General Fertility Rate .................................. 207/1,000
Population By Age Groups (1961 Census):
UnderrsS..e.r.....................................2.%
TUA er 15 74ea-sveev*ves***000***v"esc*"o@@@@Xs**@        42.1%
15 - 64 Years   ......................................S5.1%
65 Years and Over    ................................ 2.5%
Population by Religion:
Muslim .............................. 90%
Christian .................................. . ..-.......... . %
Hindu ............................................ ...... 3%
Buddhist .................................. ..     * ..   3%
Literacy (1961) - 10 Years of Age and Over ................ 43%
Labor Force (1961) - 10 Years of Age and Over ............... 34.5 million
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)            ........... U.S.$75 per capita



INDONESIA : A JOINT IDA-UNFPA POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                       Paae No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ....................                   - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION    o... o s.......  *ee@*se*es* ....... o...........  ..e .o....  .o...  1
II.   IEMOGRAPHICJ SOCIAL, AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND    ................     1
III.  FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES AND PROGRAM .e . ....e........              2
A.   Background  ............ ..................  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
B.   Famdly Planning Organization and Administration ...........     3
C.   Attitudes Toward F,aily Planning Acceptance ..............     4
D.   Family Plannimg Services..      .......................... . . ...  4
E.   Family Planning Program Performance .....................       7
F.   Training       ...............................................DO o  7
G.   Infoin ation and Conmu.nications  e.............................  8
H.   Service Statistics, Eviluation, and Research .............      9
I.   ForeigL Aid ,...................... .. .......DD...DDD. DD ..DDe .DDDD  9
J.   NFPCB Budget ................................................... ......  10
IV.   THE PROJECT      ..............................**......................  10
A.   Paramedical Education ........  .............................  12
B.   Renewal of MCH/FP Centers e............. e ....                14
A                  C.   Family Planming Training .................................D    15
D.   Nonmedical Field Workers Program .........................     16
-E.   Evaluation and Research Do- ..............     .............  16
F.   Family Planming Administration Centers       .... . ........   17
G.   Other Transport Fequirenments .............................    18
H.   Hospital Postpartum Program .................. *..... ...*..O.  18
I.   Information and Comnunications .....*.....................     19
T.   Popul.ation Education .............   .. .  ..   ..........    19
K.   Advisory Team ..............................e.g.   O           19
L.   Project Implementation Unit ............................. D , 20
V.     OSTS, F   ING      AND CGROXJCT IMPLEXENTATION .........................  20
A.Costs          ................ Dow                            20
B.   Proposed Financing    ..........................................  22
C.   Implementation .................. *.. *                        23
VI.   SOCIO-ECONONIC ANALYSIS . .   ........................... .... ..   26
VII. RECO*MENDATIONS ..... eo g... ... . . . .......*  * **g*      *      27
ANNEXES
MAPS
This report is based on the findings of a mission in June 1971 to Indonesia
comprising Mr. G. Zaidan (Chief of Mission), Messrs. H. M. Jones, J. R.
Burfield, and K. V. Ranganathan from the Bank, as well as Miss C. Walsh
(Nursing) and Messrs. R. Trengove (Architecture) and J. Ratcliffe (Evaluation)
as consultants. The mission was joined by Mr. H. Gille, Associate Director
of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and Mr. C. R. de
Silva of the BankIs East Asia & P&cific Department. This report was prepared
by Mr. H. M. Jones, with the cooperation of Miss I. Z. Husain and Mr. J. R.
Burfield in particular sections.



TABE OF CONTNTS
-2-
ANNEX
NO.
Ii    Demographic Backgr-ound
2     Selected Economic T^rends
3     CentraL Organization of the National Family Planning Coordinating Board
14    Provincial Structure of the National Family Planning Coordinatiing Board
5     Central Organization of the Ministry of Health
6     Provincial Health Stracture
7     Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association Organization Chart
8     Reorganization of the NFPCB
9     Family Planning Field Worker Program
10     Present Staffing Pattern of Typical Health Center at District Level
In East Java
11     Health Services and Facilities in East Java, Bali, and Djakarta
12     Data on Midwifery Schools, 1970
13     Family Planning Sorvices and Performance
14     Total Number Trained in Family Planning Up to June 1971
15     Estimated Traini-ng Load for In-Service Training in Family Planning for
All Training Institutions in Java and Bali, 1971-76
16     Standing Committee on Family Planning Training
17     Foreign Assistance to Indonesia in Family Planning, 1968-71
18     Foreign Assistance to Indonesia in Family Plannir.'g, 1969-70
19     Paramedical Education
20     Training Requirements for the Auxiliary Nurse-Nidwife
21     Recommended Integrated NCH/FP Staffing Patterm for East Java, Bali,
and Djakarta at Regency Level and Below
22     Sites for MCH/FP Center Construction
23     Requirements for In-Service Training Centers
24     Family Planning Functions of Personnel at Regency Level and Below
25     Recommended Curricula for In-Service Training' of Family Planning Workers
26     Evaluation and PRsearch
27     Project Vehicle Requirmenta
28     Hospital Postpartu Family Planning Program
29     Information and Conunications
30     Development of Population Education
31     Summary of Project Costs
32     Summary of Civil Works Cost Estimates
33     Schedule of Accommodation
34     Project Imlementation Unit
35     Outline of Agreements on Assistance with Implementation by Other Agencies
36     Schedule of Impleaentation for Civil Works
37     Schedule of Diibursements
38     Demographic Impact of the Project
39     Economic Impact of the Project
MAPS
1     Java and Bali
2     East Java and Bali Provinces
.,  ,  ..       4..;



INDONESIA: A JOINT IDA-UNFPA POPULATION PROJECT
SUMARY AND CONCILUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a popluat"Jon project in Indonesia for which
an IDA credit of U.S.$13.2 million is proposed. The project has been deve-
loped jointly with representatives of the Unf`ied Nations Fund for Popul.ation
Activities (UNFPA) from which will be provided foreign exchange for the
project in the same amount as the IDA credit. IDA will act as Executing
Agent for the UNFPA Thnrds, with responJi.bilityy for project supervision and
for disbursement of the UNFPA grant.
ii.       Indonesia is a country of 121 million people with a low per capita
income and with a high population growth rate (2.6%). Nearly two-thirds of
this population live on the islands of' Jaava and Bali, two of the most heavily
populated regions in the world. This combination of facts makes it unlikely
that living standards can be significantly raised unless the rate of population
growth can eventually be slowed. The Government is aware of this problem. and
has given strong policy support to a national family planning program. In
1970 it established a National Famn-ly Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB) to
take over and expand a program which had been initiated by a voluntary orga-
nization. Progress to date has been encouraging, but much higher numbers of
continuing acceptors are necessary before any significant effect on the birth
rate can be expected.
iii.      The project consists of a widely dispersed construction program,
involving over 300 separate structures, plus an integrated set of noncon-
struction activities necessary to increase the effectiveness of the national
program. The construction activities will be mainly in East Java, Bali, and
the city of Djakarta (in West Java). The project, costing U.S.$33.0 million,
over a 5-year period, will account for substantially, all of the national
program's physical expansion in East Java, Bali and Djak:arta, and"for the
major part of program expansion, in such fields as motivation, training and
evaluation, throughout the country. The institution building and technical
assistance components of the project will benefit the entire national program.
iv.       In functional terms, the project will:
a.       oe motivation services by
1.   providing sWport for a ten-fold increase in the number of
nonmedical field workers, who are the only full-time field
workers in family planning;
2.   providing training schools for all categories of staff in
the national family planning program;
3.   strengthening the capability of the NFPCB to coordinate and
direct an effective information program;
4.   providing mobile infomation units to take family planning
information to village level; and
5.   introducing population education into in-school and out-of-
school education.



b.   ipove family plarning Services by
1    renewing present:Ly inadequate buildings which are the foci of
the delivery syrstem
2.   building trainng fac-ilities to increase the number of para-
medical tlaff -ho are responsible for providing the intra-
uteri'ne device (IUTD) and coon   aceptive pill used by 90% of
new acceptors; and
3.   supporting the improvement and expansion of the hospital
postpartum program.
c.   strengthen NFPCB'a capacity to coordinate the national program by
1.   providing an advisory team covering overall program management,
training and comminications;
2.   providing technical advisers and foreign fellowships to improve
specific program functions and skills;
3.   expanding the evaluation and research capability of the NFPCB
at central and provincial levels, and enhancing Indonesian
institutional research capability to provide es,-3ntial contract
research;
4.   supporting a&n organizational restructuring to provide the
strong managerial capability which the prograr. requires; and
5.   building administrative centers needed to house staff, foreign
ad.visers, and equipment.
v.        Total project costs are estimated at U.S.$33.0 million (Rp 13,695
million). The Association, UNFPA, and the Goverment will share these costs
on a 40-40-20 basis. The Government's contribution of U.S.$6.6 million will
go entirely to its share of the additional operating costs required by the
project (IDA and UNFPA will also finance a portion of these costs, on a
declining share basis). The total foreign exchange cost is estimated at
U.S.$12.8 million. Total government expenditures for family planning are
estimated to be about UJ.S.$58 million equivalent between 1972 and 1977.
vi        The NFPCB would be responsible for the administration and coordina-
tion of project activities, and would establish a-Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) for this purpose as part of its control organization. The PIU would have
twe sections -- one responsible for construction and the other for nonconstruct-
ion compoxients. A consulting firm would be retained to advise and assist the
PIU on all matters concerning project realization. During negotiations,
assurances will be sought from the Government that it will associate other
agencies with the implementation of specific project components. These agencies
and components are: WHO - hospital postpartum program; UNESCO - communications
and population education; UNICEF - vehicle procurement; UN Population Division -
two of the evaluation and research components covering the Institute of Demo-
graphy and the Populationi Study Center; and the' Population Council of New York -
demonstration field postpartum program. Should the Government fail to reach
agreement with these agencies, other agencies of similar competence acceptable
to IDA willl be associated with these project components.



vii.     With the exception of the central NFPCB headquarters buildings in
Djakarta, the buildings to be constructed are small and scattered and a-re not
suitable for international tendering, and will be built by prequalified local
contractors on a competitive basis. A contract for the NFPCB headquarters
will be awarded on the basis of international tenders. Nonconstruction equip-
ment will also be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
except for the hospital equipment (valued at less than U.S.$25,o0o) to be
procured by UNICEF to standardize with existing equipment. Vehicles will be
procured by UNICEF on the basis of international competitive bidding except
when the use of UNICEF's existing long-tenm negotiated fleet contracts is
indicated in the interests of fleet standardization and economy.
viii.     As a result of the project, it is estimated that the number of new
acceptors of family planning would increase to a level more than three times
higher than would be reached without the project.  In 1970-71, about 180,000
new acceptors were reached. Without the project, this might rise to around
5XO,000 per year by 1975; with the project, a figure of 1.6 million is pro-
bable. The figures needed to measure with confidence the economic impact of
the project do not exist. The use of arbitrary, but conservative assumptions,
however, indicates that, in the long run, the project will contribute to an
increase in per capita income and a reduction in unemployment. Project costs
will be very low compared iith project benefits.



INDONESIA: A JOINT IDA-UNFPA POPULATION PRJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
101      Since 1966, the Indonesian Government has become increasingly
aware of the acute problems which a rapidly growing population pose for
its efforts at economic development. With over 120 million people, the
fifth largest population in the world,, Indonesia has a current growth
rate of 2. , giving an annual increm3nt of some 3 million persons. In
his 1971 National Day address, President Suharto said that "the success
or failure of /the7 planned parenthood drive is a challenge to the future
of the Indonesian nation."
1.02     On assuming responsibility for family planning work, the
Indonesian Government invited the Bank Group and the UNDP in JuLly 1969
to help in developing a comprehensive program. A mission, jointly spon-
sored by the UN, WHO, and IBRD, visited Indonesia from September to Novem-
ber 1969. Its report, outlining a 5-year program to reach 6 million new
acceptors in Java and Bali in that period, was presented to the President
of Indonesia in July 1970, and formed the basis for the 5-year program
subsequently adopted by the Goverment.
1.03      In response to a request from the Government to develop a project
within the framework of this program, a preapprai5al mis3ion visited Indanesia
in November and December 1970.
1.0L      The Government also approached the United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA) independently in 1970 to fund specific projects within the
5-year program. To coordinate assistance to the Indonesian program, the Bank
Group invited the UNFPA to join an appraisal mission which would aim to deve-
lop a joint project. The appraisal mission visited Indonesia in June 1971.
As a result of this mission, and of subsequent discussions at headquarters,
a joint IBRD-UNFPA project was developed.
II. DEMOGRAPHIC, SOCIAL, AND ECONCOIC BACKGROUND
2.01      In 1970,, Indonesia had a population estimated at 121.2 million
living on five large and some 3,000 smaller islands. Two-thirds of the
population are concentrated on the islands of Java and Bali (Fnly 7% of
the land area) where population densities approach 550 per km , considerably
greater than those of industrialized countries of western, Europe, such as
Belgium and The Netherlands. This contrasts with other islands, such as
West Irian which accounts for almost 25% of the land area but has a density
of only 2 per km2. The population comprises a variety of ethnic groups, but
the majority are of Malay origin. Diverse languages and dialects, culture,
and social organizations distinguish the groups, the most important being the
Javanese. Muslims comprise 90% of the population, the remainder being
Christians (L%), Hindus (3%), and Buddhists (3%). Those who can read and
write constituted 42% of the population of 10 years and over in 1961. Details



-2-
of the population are given in Annex 1.
2.02      Between the censuses of 1930 and 1960, the population of Indonesia
grew from 60.7 million to 97.1 million.  The rate of growth of the population
ave. aged 1% per annum between 1931 and 1961, but fluctuated markedly. Vital
rates underwent abrupt changes as a result of the World War, and subsequent
War of Independence. Mortality dropped in the thirties, rose during the
wars, and subsequently declined to an estimated level of 22 per 1,000 persons
by 1970 in association with the control of malaria, yaws, smallpox, and other
diseases. The birth rate appears to have remained almost constant and was
estimated to be 48 per 1,000 persons in 1970. The result has been a rapid
acceleration in the rate of growth of the population from 2% per annum in the
fifties to an estimated 2.6% per annum in 1970.
2.03      According to the 1961 census data, 42.1% of the population was under
15 years and 2.5% was over 65 years. They indicated a high dependency burdera/
of 88, which must hare increased during the sixties due to constant high fer-
tility levels and a decline in infant mortality.
2.04      The rapid growth of the Indonesian population has serious economic
and social implications (see Annex 2), the obvious effects of -which are rising
unemployment and underemployment, and the severely restricted growth of per
capita income. Estimates are unreliable, but there is clearly serious
unemployment awd underemployment throughout the country.
2.05      Unless population growth can be curbed, there is a serious question
as to whether Indonesia can sustain even a moderate increase in the living
standards of its population. The rate of growth of per capita income during
the early sixties was scarcely perceptible in spite of an average growth rate
of the GDP of 2.6% during the period.
III. FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES AND PROGRAM
A. Background
3.01      Family planning work in Indonesia was initiated by a voluntary
organization, the Indonesian Plamned Parenthood Association (IPPA), in 1957.
Its woric was restricted at first by an unfavorable political climate to an
information program, directed mainly at women' s organizations. Increasing
awareness by the Govermnent of the country's population problem and the
need for family planning became evident in 1967, and a modest ser-vice pro-
gramr using facilities provided by the Ministry of Health was developed by
IP,PA. Its activities then expanded considerably from 8 branches and 52
clinics to 92 branches and 396 clinics by December 1969.
3.02      Govermnent involvement in family planning started with the creation
of the National Family Plarming Institute (LKBN) in October 1968. The first
5-year plan (1969-74) included a family planning program designed to reach
3 million acceptors in Java and Bali by the end of the plan period. In spite
of this activity, however, there was no effective national program. In July
1/ The dependency burden is calculated as the number of peo le in the age
groups 14s and under, and 65 and over per 100 persons in The age group
15-64 years.



-3-
1069, the Government asked IBRD and UNDP to help develop a comprehensive
government program. At the same time, it assumed responsibility for the
IPPA clinical facilities in Java and Bali. A UN-WHO-IBRD mission visited
Indonesia in October and November 1969. Following the submission of its
report, the President of Indonesia directed that an operational plan be
prepared to implement acceptable recommendations. For this purpose, a
task force was appointed which produced a 5-year plan; it was based main-
ly on the recommendations of the UN-WHO-IBRD Report and d4optad a target
of 6 mill-ion new acceptors to be achieved by I976.
B. Family Planning Organization and Administration
3.03      The organizational structure of the family planning program derives
from Presidential Decision No. 8 of 1970. rne President is responsible for the
national family planning program with the Minister of State for Peoples'
Welfare responsible for its immediate implementation. The National Council
for Guidance of Family Planning was established at ministerial level to
advise the President on the "guidance and contrfl of all operations in the
field of family planning."  To achieve the "coordination, integration, and
synchronization of efforts in realizing the national program of family plan-
ning carried out by the implementing units,," the semi-autonomous LKBN was
replaced by the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB). In
addition to its main coordinating function, the NFPCB is responsible for
generating policy, drawing up implementation guidelines, and coordinating
foreign aid. The structural pattern of the NFPCB, which started work in
July 1970, is shown in Annexes 3 and 4.
3.04      NFPCB staff are seconded, and draw their basic salary, from other
government departments, primarily the Ministry of Health, retaining such
rights as those of promotion and transfer. Many senior NFPCB posts, parti-
cularly at the central level, are filled on a full-time basis. Most, however,
are part-time appointments, adcditional to other official posts. All posts
a tract salary supplementsi, and related financial payments include compen-
sation to Ministry of Health staff for family planning work, and inducements
to those who refer new acceptors.
3.05      Responsibility for translating policies and plans into action lies
with the implementing units. The main burden of providing family planning
services in Java and Bali falls on the Ministry of Health. Within the
Ministry, a directorate is responsible for maternal and child health (MCH)
and family planning work. In common with other directorates, its functions
are mainly consultative, coordinative, supervisory, and legislative. Execu-
tion of the Ministry's plan is primarily the responsibility of the provincial
health departments which, because they fund most of their1lctivities, have
considerable autonomy. Administration of health services including MCH and
family planning, progresses from the Ministry of Health in Djakarta, through
the health department in each province down to regency, district, sub-district,
and village levels. Its structure at central level is shown in Anex 5, and
at provincial level and regency level in Annex 6. Supplementary support is
provided by those medical facilities (hospitals and clinics) of the Armed
Forces (ABRI) and Police (AKRI) which are open to the general public. The
(Christian) Council of Churches and the Muslim Mohammedijah also have faci-
lities providing family planning services.
1/ The structure of the national health services is based on a long-term
development program prepared by the Government with the assistance of
WHO and UNICEF, and described in the Master Plan of Operatiois dated
Januar 1969.



-4-
3.06      The IPPA is the most important voluntary organization and, since
the Government took over the national program, its activities cover training,
information, and services outside Java and Bali. The changing role of the
IPPA foreshadowed organizational changes in 1970. A staff of full-time,
salaried workers has replaced the group of experienced volunteers, with a
clear separation of policymakers from executive officials. The organization
is indicated in Annex 7. Although no final decisions have been made, thiere
is general, informal agreement between the IPPA and the Government that, in
Java and Bali, IPPA will play an important part in developing training,
research, and information work. In the outer islands, the IPPA will still
be responsible for almost every aspect of family planning activities.
3.07      The main orgarnzational problem is the ineffective relationship
between the NFPCB and the implementing units, in spite of the recent creation
of an ad hoc working committee designed to improve coordination. This is due
to the weak administrative component of the NFPCB's organization. To imprve
those functions essential to the development of its coordinating role, a
modification of the organizational structure is proposed to secure a more
effective focus on planning, budgeting, and supervision. This will be a
condition of effectiveness. The proposed reorganization is outlined in
Annex 8.
C. Attitudes Toward Family Planning Acceptance
3.08      The only Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) study of consequence
to measure knowledge of attitudes toward and acceptance of family planning
methods was sponsored by IPPA and the Ford Foundation in 1968 and limited to
a sample population in Djakarta. The principal impressions were that knowledge
of family planning methods is limited, that contraception is practiced by a
small fraction of the population and the methods used are generally ineffective,
and that despite the paucity of knowledge, there is a high level of interest in
learning about family planning. Religious support for the program is increasing
and is helped by the Minister of State for Peoples' Welfare, who is a respected
Moslem leader.  There is little overt opposition to the government family plan-
ning program.
D.
3.09      In the national family planning program, the facilities and staff of
the Ministry of Health's MCH program are used to deliver 80% of the services.
Services are also delivered through MCH centers run by the Armed Forces,
voluntary organizations, agricultural and industrial3 estates, and doctors and
midwives in private practice. Because the program is still in ani early stage
of development, most women first hear about family planning through the M.CH
staff. Of a sample of new acceptors in the first quarter of 1971, 58% were
referred by health workers, 10% by friends who were using contraceptive
methods, and 17% by field workers. Of the government health workers, the
midwife is an important figure and presently the principal contact with
potential acceptors. In 1969, there were about 1,900 midwives working in
government MCH services. Midwives and nurses are trained in separate courses
for 3 years, after 9 years of general education. In some schools, the sepa"ate
courses are being replaced by a 4-year course training nurse-midwives. The
first 3 years cover general nursing and the fourth year provides specialist
training, one of the options being midwifery. Midwives assist in deliveries,



run baby clinics, provide family planning services, and also have associated
administrative responsibilities. At lower levels, the two most important
categories are the assistant nurse (PKC) and the assistant midwife (PKE);
each has 2 years of training following 6 years of general education. In
East Java, there are no PKE training facilities; their functions are carried
out mostly by untrained assistants to midwives.
3.10      Other important motivators in the field include traditional midwives
(dukuns) who are responsible for about 80% of deliveries in rural areas. They
are gradually being trained, with UNICEF assistance, in delivery procedures by
government midwives. Successful trainees are provided with free de3ivery kits
which are renewed each time a delivery is reported to the nearest government
midwife. Their training includes a fmuily planning element, and indigenous
midwives are playing an increasingly important role in family planning motiva-
tion. In East Java, 6,700 of the 14,000 dukuns practicing in the province had
been trained by August 1970. In addition to other health workers, and staff
from other ministries with extension field staff who also try to recruit
acceptors, the full-time nonmedical field workers are being recruited on an
increasing scale and beginning to play an important part in the motivation
of potential acceptors. to- date, however, only 400 nonmedical field workers
have been recruited in Java and Bali, and there are still important questions
of organization, training and supervision to be resolved. Annex 9 describes the
present state of the field worker program.
3.11      Potential acceptors are referred to family planning clinics, i.e.,
those MCH centers at which contraceptive methods are offered, either at
special sessions or as a routine part of the MCH program. The program is
female-oriented, with about 90% of new acceptors using either the IUD or
contraceptive pill.  In East Java, nearly 90% of the MCH centers are the
responsibility of the provinces' health services and of these, 92% are in
rural areas. Facilities at village level are rudimentary; for an average
village of 2,800 people, there is usually a simple MCH center built by the
community and visited perhaps twice a month by a midwife and more rarely
by a doctor. At the sub-district (ketjamatan) level, with a typical popu-
lation of 44,000 people, there is a permanently manned MCH center with a
trained government midwife in charge; some have more than one MCH center.
The district (kawedanan), a grouping of five sub-districts, is the main
provincial sub-unit for health purposes, headed by a medical officer, with
primarily administrative functions, and supporting 3taff as shown in Annex 10.
3.12      In the large cities, the ratio of government MCH centers to the
population is lower than in rural areas, but they are supported by a much
larger number of private facilities. In the city of Surabaja, for example,
the ratio is 1:85,000 for government centers,but 1:35,000 when private
centers are taken into account. In the smaller provincial towns, which also
act as the headquarters of adjacent sub-districts, the ratio is still better --
in East Java, it is 1 b25,000. Hospital and maternity services are centered in
urban areas. In Djakarta, in 1969, 50% of the 160,000 deliveries were reported
from maternity instit-utions.
3.13      The provision of MCH facilities and staff in East Java, Bali, and
Djakarta, as examples of tha services provided by provincial health authori-
ties, is detailed in Annex 11. Because acceptors now use mainly those con-
traceptive methods which require the attention of trained medical and para-
medical staff in health facilities, an improvement in the basic services



-6-
provided through the MCH progran is of critical importance to the success
of the family planning program. There are three serious constraints to
development:
a.   Shortage of Staff
The number of midwifery schools in Java anld Bali is variably
reported but best estimates are 6 in Djakarta, 15 in East Java,
1 in Bali, and 22 in the rest of Java, giving a total of 44 for
the two islands. Details of the main midwifery schools in the
provinces of East Java, Bali and Djakarta are in Annex 12.
Provincial medical officers have roughly estimated that for
existing MCH, maternity hospital, and administrative purposes,
there is, for example, a shortage of 500 midwives in East Java
and 700 in I)jakarta. In East Java, the number of midwives gives
a ratio of 1:33,000 people (compared with a ratio of 1:4,750
people in West Malaysia). In Bali., the ratio is one midwife for
12, 00 people. The ratio of goverment midwives worxking in MCH
centers and, therefore, available for the delivery of family
planning services, is about 1:45,000 people. This is extremely
low and indicates a need for at least twice as many midwives as
presently employed and the improvement and expansion of training
facilities.
b.   Inadequate Buildings
There is a shortage of centers and many use inadequate buildings.
In East Java, each rural center serves at average of 25,600 persons.
In addition to the fact that not all are staffed, their irregular
distribution means that wide areas of the country are inadequately
serviced. Many of the existing centers are locally built of poor
materials and others occupy rented accommodation. The village
MCH center is often a room in a house rsnted for two afternoons a
month and used as a dwelling for the rest of the time. In a survey
made by the Bank in May 1971 of family planning clinics using MCH
centers in East Java, nearly 90% needed new buildings or extensive
renovations to bring them to standard in terms of space and facili-
ties.
c.   Inadequate Maternity Facilities
Maternity facilities in the larger cities such as Djakarta and
Surabaja provide for only 50% of deliveries in urban areas. Al-
though at the end of 1970 the average number of deliveries per
bed in Djakarta in all facilities was 38, the rate of over 80 per
bed for public maternity f acilities is well above an acceptable
rate of 60 deliveries per bed annually. The decentralization of
maternity facilities to smaller 20-bed units in tfhe suburbs of
Djakarta and Surabaja is proceeding, but in Surabaja, for example,
only 3 out of 16 MCH centers have been provided with such units.
They have, however, proved successful in providing better coverage
of maternity services and greatlY expanded opportunities for f-mily
planning motivation by providing information and services to the
recently-delivered mothers. For mall urban, and rural areas, only some
20 beds are provided for maternity cases in each district (kawedanan).



-7-
E. Family Planing Program Performance
3.14      Of the 1,686 centers which reported family planing activity in
September 1971, 86% are operated by government agencies and the remainder
by private agencies (5%) and others, including the military forces (9%).
Table 2 of Annex 13 shows the distribution of family planning clinics by
agency and province. The target of family planning acceptors per clinic!/
month set by the Ministry of Health is 8..0 for the 1971-72 plan year. The
actual rate has risen for all clinics fi   8.7 for, 1970 to 15.7 in the first
quarter of 1971 and 25.6 in the second quarter of FY1972. Table 3 of Annex 13
shows the rates of acceptors per clinic/month by province. It illustrates
an increase in the number of acceptors which is not entirely due to the
opening of additional facilities. Data indicate that the centers are now
devoting more time to providing family plarming services.
3.15      From 1967 to 1970, the number of acceptors increased over 11 times
from 11,363 to 132,307. In FY1970-71, the number of new acceptors totalled
183,442, exceeding the target by 58,442 acceptors. This increase continued
in the first half of FY1972, when the full target for this year was exceeded
by 35%. Whilst this is encouraging, the total number of women practicing
family planning represents only 1.3% oL the women in the fertile 15-44 years
age group (compared, for example, with 24% in Taiwan). Details of new
acceptors for Java and Bali are shown in Annex 13, which indicate that
family planning acceptance is strongest in urban Djakarta and Bali. Female
acceptors are generally young (over half are between 20 and 29 years) and
have already had four children. The trend has been towards the contraceptive
pill as the most frequently accepted method, but, as Annex 13 shows, there are
interprovincial variations in contraceptive use. Throughout Indonesia, a
vasectomy is not acceptable for cultural reasons; there is, however, a growing
awareness among government planners of its potential importance to a family plan-
ning program. Abortion is illegal; no information is available on its prevalence
in Indonesian society.
F. Training
3.16      To date, most family planning training has been done through the
IPPA. Between 1963 and 1968, 44 doctors, 20 midwives and nurses, and 23
others were trained at the International Planned Parenthood Federation
Regional Training Institute in Singapore. In September 1968, a national
training center (NTC) was established by IPPA in Djakarta. It is designed
to train and upgrade family planning workers and provincial training center
(PTC) teachers, technically supervise PTC work, as well as guide and assist
other family planning training programs. The faculty is employed part-time
only. With the assistance of the Netherlands Government, a permanent center
is being built. Six provincial training centers (PTC) were established by
IPPA in mid-1969. They have no permanent buildings, and equipment and books
are inadequate. Each PTO is a major unit for training field workars, and is
able to train between 275 and 400 annually. The total IPPA training capacity
is rated at 2,000 workers per armnum. Details of personnel trained to June
1971 are shown i:< Annex 14. Some family planning training, but only as part
of routine refresher courses, has also been undertaken in provincial health
training centers.
3.17      The NFPCB has calculated training loads for the current fiscal year
and broad estimates for the next 4 years (see Annex 15). There is, however,
no clearly defined national training policy and plans to achieves the training



-8-
of more than 4,000 personnel annually are inadequate. Training responsibi-
lities are confused and the present organization and utilization of availa-
ble training centers are, therefore, unsatisfactory. None has eitier an
adequate number of trained faculty of the correct type needed as trainers
or sufficient equipment or accommodation for effective functioning. Their
management lacks uniformity and purpose and, in consequence, the relevance
of their training function to the national family plarnning program is often
marginal. In the PTCs established by the IPPA, the training program has not
been fully utilized. Trainees are drawn primarily from among employees of
provincial health departments and selection for training is thus the res-
ponsibility of health officials. Many PTC facilities and staff are in fact
made available to the IPPA by the Ministry of Health. With the lack of
central direction, there is considerable overlapping of authority. Curri-
culum development lacks the necessary coordination. There is no uniform:ity
of salary scales. Standards of training vary considerably, in the absence
of firm decisions as to the training load, irn both type and number of trainees,
for each center. There is a need for the establishment of a national training
committee, an immediate review of training piiroblems and requirements, a clear
statement of responsibility and policy, and detailed plans 'for its implemen-
tation (see Annex 16). The Government has given assurances that it will
establish a standing comnittee on family planning training to be responsible
.for recommending to the Chairman of the NFPCB training policies and priorities,
the appointment of training responsibilities, and the use for training purposes
of the facilities for wbich the project provides.
G. Information and Communications
3.18      The NFPCB has information bureaus at central, provincial and regency
levels. The information component of the budget was substantially increased
from Rp 63 million in FY1971 to Rp 357 million in FY1972. It covers mass
communications items such as radio programs, bill board, posters, films, and
press releases. The IPPA has accepted an increasingly important role in the
dissemination of family planring information by preparing posters and leaflets,
and organizing seminars for opinion leaders. It will continue to use mass
media such as radi.o and the national press. With the assistance of USAID,
the Ministry of Health is developing a program to develop personal-contact
motivation to practice family plamning.
3,19      Thius far, the most intensive information program is being carried
out in Djakarta. Here, mass media can be used to reach a dense urban popula-
tion, the field worker program is more developed than elsewhere in ,Java and
a variety of information materials is used in motivation work . The national
program's main problems in this field are the successful development of mass
media techniques to cover the whole of Java and Bali, the development of
information materials suitable for use by field workers, and the means to
spread information on family planning to the mass of the rural population.
Successful solutions to these problems are essential in maintaining increases
in the number of newi acceptors using the daveloping and expanding delivery
system. Strengthenirng the Information and Motivation Bureau of the NFPCB
to enable greater coordination of' the two main implementing units (Ministry
of Information and IPPA), and stimulat,ion of research into improved motivation
techniques is needed. Thm provision of mobile units for information work at
village level is required and, with more and better trained field workers,
will lead to improved knowledge of family planning methods and services.



-9-
H. Service Statistics, Valuation, and Research
3.20      The NFPCB has established two bureaus in this field, one for report-
ing aad recording, and the other for research and evaluation. The links
betwee3n research, evaluation, and program operations, however, are unclear
and ill-defined,, a problem compounded by the fact that the two bureaus are
under separate direction. The NFPCB hlas assumed the responsibility, as if
it, wag; an implementing unit for reporting and recording. Until now the seve-
ril implementing units have evolved various systems which generally produce
i;ucomplete data. To mid-1969, the IPPA collected reports from its clinics,
but often achieved only 70% coverage with most reports being submitted up to
) monthls late. An improved and simplified reporting and recording system has
been ci'troduced recently. As a result of a better working relationship with
the im?lmnting units, and with the assistance of USAID, current performance
data htve improved considerably, being more comprehensive and up-to-date than
data provided hitherto.
3.21      Because the Bureau of Evaluation and Research has been established
for one year only, little evaluation has been accomplished. Some research
activities have been initiated by the implementing agencies, such as IPPA
and the Ministry of Health, but the lack of sound research techniques and
methodology has inhibited progress. Assisted by the Ford Foundation, the
IPPA carr-ied out a KAP study in 1968. The Institute of Public Health in
Surabaja has carried out useful operational studies of MCH services. Re-
search attention should be focused on studies wich have the maximum opera-
tional significance. As reliable data are produced, subsequent studies
should include contraceptive oontinuanco surveys and KAP studies to provide
baseline data against which performance can be matched. They require effi-
cient coordination by the NFPCB.
I. Foreign Aid
3.22      Financial and comodity foreign assistance, detailed in Annex 17
and Annex 18,has grown from U.S.$2.0 million in FY1969 to U.S.$3.32 million
in FYi1971. In the past, asaistance has been channeled through the Ministry
of Health and IPPA. The NFPCB is now charged with coordinating all foreign
aid for family planning activities. USAID has been the most important donor,
directly through the Ministry of Health or indirectly through support to the
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) which is the source of 80%
of IPPA finance. Its aid has included oral contraceptives, vehicles, audio-
visual and teaching aida as well as medical equipment. USAID will provide
assistance for an expansion of health education. Sweden and Japan have also
provided contraceptives. UNICEF has committed U.S.$6.0 million between
1971 and 1974 to help the Ministry of Health to upgrade its service structure
and provide essential commodities. With UNFPA funds, UNICEF is financing the
construction and equipment of one and the upgrading of two more midwifery
teachers' schools in addition to providing transport for family planning
services. WHO has provided consultancy services and sponsored studies in
the fields of training and education; with projected UNFPA support amounting
to almost U.S.$1.5 million in 1971-73, WHO will also support medical training
in family planning, the extension of cytology services, and other health-
related activities. IPPF support is provided through the IPPA. With the
assistance qf U.S.$0.2 million from the Netherlands Government, IPIA is
building a national training center.



- 10 -
The Population Council has supplied IUDs and supported postpartum work in
26 hospitals in Java and Bali. The Ford Foundation has provided two con-
sultants to work with IPPA, one in overall planning and the other in com-
munications, as well as grants for surveys and studies. Aid is currently
adequate to meet the needs for contraceptives and existing commitments will
be increased to meet the demands of an expaoding program. Should present
sources fail or be unable to meet demands, tU,.e Governent would provide
contraceptives as required by the program.
J. NFPCB Budget
3.23      Budget allocations for the government family planning program
have risen substantially from U.S.$75,000 in FY1969 to U.S.$300,000 in
FY1970, to U.S.$1,323,000 in FY1971, and in FY1972 to U.S.$3,968,250.
Because of the late establishment of the NFPCB in FY1971, only 30% of the
budgetary allocation was disbursed. According to the final revised DIP
(authority for budget xpeniditure), the carry-over into FY1972 totalled U.S.
$837,000, mainly under the items for infrastructure and administration.
3.24      In the NFPIB's budget for FY1972, provision for information and
motivation services is nearly 25% of the total, representing twice the
previous year's allocation. A further 25% of the budget is provided for
the rehabilitation of offices, training schools, MCH/AP centers and equip-
ment. Salary supplements, incentives and financial compensation to staff
of health services account for 13% of the budget allocation.  Administrative
overheads are estimated at 17% of the total budget.
IV. THE PROJECT
Introduction
4.01      As the preceding account makes clear, population activities in
Indonesia are going through a critical transition stage. Having accepted
the necessity of making population control a major goal of government policyy,
and having established an organization and a program to provide the neces-
sary services, the Government must now strengthen, broaden and greatly
expand the scale of its efforts. This "scaling up" will require a sizeable
program of construction, an expansion of health service personnel, a major
training effort, the building up of demographic research, the further improve-
ment of the statistical reporting system., and, to these ends, large increases
in budgetary allocations, and considerable help from abroad in the fonms of
both capital and technical assistance. No country has unlimited absorptive
capacity, and it would be unwise for Indonesia to attempt to do, through-
out the country, everything that now needs to be done. Consequently, the
construction and service elements of the project have been limited to three
high-prio.rity areas, the provinces of Djakarta, East Java and Bali. The
technical assistance provided to the NFPCB and the research institutions
will of course affect the development of the total system, not merely deve-
lopments within the project areas.  However, program expansion outside the
project areas during the next 4-5 year period will be at a much slower
rate than inside those areas.



4.02      The project has boen developed with the UNFPA which has agreed
to IDA acting as Etxecuting Agent, thus being responsible for supervision
and disbursement for the joint funds of the IDA credit and UNFPA grant.
4.03       toe comnponents inclutde assistance./for:
a.   Paramedical Education   S.$4.51 million),,
constructing 10 new schools to graduate
490 auxiliary nurse-midwives annually, together with vehicles2/
and equipment;
b.    CHF?P Centers (U.S.$3.77 million),
rebuilding 277 MCHtTP centers    226 in East Java, 34 in Bali,
and 17 in Djakarta;
c.   Famil  Plannin  Trainin  U.S.   .07 million),
constructing 6 new provincial training centers and 10 new sub-
training centers for the training of medical and nonmedicae.
staff of the national family planning program, together with
vehicles, equipment, and training fellowships;
d.   Nomedical Field Workers Frogrkm (U.S.$4.04 million),
covering salary support8tfor 7,000 nonmedical field workers,
1,533 supervisory staff, 129 drivers, and vehicles;
e.   Evaluation and Research (m.S.$1.7 million),
/ providing 7 foreign advisers for a total of 20 man-years, 30 man-
months for foreign short-tem consultants, fellowships totalling
34 man-years, salary support for additional staff funds for
esserntial operational research studies and seminars, and the
establishment of a demonstration field postpartum program;
f.   Family Planning Administration Centers (U.s$0.89 million)-,
providing 1 new center in Djakarta for NFPCB headquarters, and
6 new provincial centers at Surabaja, Semarang, Djogjakarta,
Derpasar, Djakarta, and Bandung, as well as vehicles and
equipment;
g.   Other TransporttReQuirements (U.S.11.24 million),
providing vehicles for health services staff involved in MCLI and
family planning activities, 2 foreign advisers for a total of
6 man-years, spares and freight for all project vehicles, and
support for a study of the utilization of health service vehicles;
-/ Whiere appropriate, provision is made for maintenance and operating costs
on a declining basis for the first 4 years of the project -- 80% in the
first year, 60% in the second year, 40% in the third year, and 20% in the
fourth year.
2/ A sumuary of project vehicle requirements is in Table 1 of Annex 27.
/All salary support is provided on a declining basis for the first 4 years
of the project -- 80% in the first year, 60% in the second year, 40% in
the third year, and 20% in the fourth year.



- 12 -
h.   Hospital Post artum Progran (U.S.$1.87 miLlioi ,
providing 1 foreign adviser for 2 years, salary support and
equipment;
i.   Information and Counications (U.S. $2.07 million),
providing 115 mobile information units, salary support for 237
additional staff, equipment, 36 man-months of short-term foreign
consultant services, fellowahipo for 9! man-years, and studies
and seminars;
d .  Population Education   S0    8   llion ,
providing 1 foreign     r   or 5 years, funds for seminars and
research studies, fellowships for 24 man-years, teaching materials
and equipment, and vehicles;
k.   Advisory Team (U.S.$0.45 million),
providing 3 foreign advisers for 2 years in management., training,
and communications, in addition to the technical expertise provided
in othe,r components, vehicles and office equipment; and
1.   Projecst  Iplementation Unit (U.S.$0.54 million),
providing salary suport for additional staff, fellowships for
4 man-years, and assistance from a firm of consultants in project
management.
A. Paramedical Education
4.04      This component provides facilities for graduating 50 nurse-midwives
and 490 auxiliary nurse-midwives arzually. This training flow takes into
account existing shortages and the capacity of the provincial governments to
absorb new staff; in East Java, for example, it will only reduce the ratio of
midwives to the population to 1:31,000. The Government has given assurances
that it will establish and maintain the additional new posts needed to employ
staff trained in the schools provided in the project.
4.05      The shortage of paramedical staff for use in the delivery of para-
medical services has been indicated above in para 3.13 (a). With the adoption
of a 4-year course for nurse-midwivess the demand for additional staff cannot
be met until 1979 at the earlient, taking into account the time required to
build schools and enlarge classes. A cadre of professional staff requiring
on.ry 2 years training has to be developed to meet the shortage as soon as
possible. They are auxiliary nurse-midwives (ANiMs) -- multipurpose health
workers remponsible for community health care with emphasis on MCH and
family planing. An outline of their proposed functions is in Annex 19,
and of their training requirements 4n A1nex 20. To reduce economic hard-
ship, one of the major causes of student midwife attrition, and to provide
for direction of trained staff to essential positions, the project provides
for training stipends (see Annex 19) which should be linked to service
agreements. The Goverment has given assurances that it will train students
to graduate as auxiliary nurse-midwives after a 2-year course under service
contracts providing for stipends.



13 -
East Java
4.06      The staffing and service pattern outlined in Annex 21 has been
accepted as suitable and realistic by the halth authorities of East Java.
On this basis, the family planing program would require an additional 176
nurse-midwives -- 139 for supervisory duties at district level and 37 for
duty in the maternity sections of regency hospitals. For this purpose, the
proJect would graduate 50 nurse-midwives annually, which entails providing
claarsoom and hostel accommodation for 240 students in a new school to be
attached to the Dr. Soetomo Hospital in Surabaja. Teaching facilities for
general nursing and midwifery are adequate at this hospital. The Government
has given assurances that it will restrict the new school at Surabaja to
the training of nurse-midwives.
4.07      To start ANM training in East Java, the project provides for two
new sc.ools, each to graduate 100 ANMs, attached to the hospitals at Malaang
and Blitar respectively, and two new schools, each to graduate 50 ANMs,
attached to the hospitals at Tuban and Magetan respectively. The former
will have accommodation for 2140 pupils each and the latter for 115 pupils
each. To provide the necessary rural health experience for student ANMs,
provision is made for the renewal of the MCH/FP facilities in 16 district
centers, with small dormitory accommodation for students on field visits.
These centers are listed in Annex 22.
Bali
4.08      The project provides classroom and hostel accommodation for train-
ing 70 ANM students at the existing midwifery school in Denpasar. Bali will
require 72 supervisory midwives, 151 nurse-midwives, and 186 ANKs according
to the model staffing pattern. The island now has 115 midwives working in
MCH/FP centers, leaving 32 centers without adequate staff. To meet the current
deficit of staff and promote the training of ANMs, the project will provide
30 graduates annually. Adequate MCH/FP centers for rural practice are
located close to the hospital.
Djakarta
14.09     The capacity of the city to satisfy the shortf'all of some 750 mid-
wives is limited because it is impossible to expand existing inadequate
training schools. To promote ANM training and provide ANMs as essential
supplementary staff to the existing midwives, the project provides for 100
AM graduates annually, trained in two new schools attached to the Sumber
Waras and Husada hospitals respectively. To this end, classroom and hostel
accommodation for 1 5 students will be built at each location. Adequate
facilities for field practice are readily available.
West and Central Java
4.10      To initiate ANM training as a pilot school for the subsequent expan-
sion of the service components of the project to the rest of Java, it is pro-
posed to provide one ANM school each in West and Central Java, each graduating
30 ANlMs annually. The West Java school will be situated at Rangkasbitung, and
the Central Java school will be at Kebumen. Both locations provide adequate
training facilities.



14 -
Supplementary Training
4.11      To upgrade the qualJ.ty of existing staff, the project provides
stipends required to attract staff for retraining for which existing
faci.lities will be used. The Government has given assurances that sup-
plemental training will be provided to upgrade the existing qualifications
of existing nurees and midwives, and assistant nurses and assistant mid-
wives, to nurse-midwives and auxiliary nurse-midwives respectively.
B. Building of MCH/FP Centers
Rural
4.12      The project provides for the building of 199 rural, govermnent
MCH/FP centers in East Java to replace existing centers. Of these centers,
15 are at district level, with provision for a doctor and supporting staff,,
and 188 at sub-district level with a resident midwife and staff. Anl
additional 16 district centers will be built with new dormitory accommoda-
tion for four trainees in each to facilitate the rural training practice
of ANMs. In Bali, 34 sub.-district centers, the focal supervisory centers
in the island's health structure, will be built. The total number of exist-
ing MCH/FP centers will not be increased by this project component. New
facilities are needed to replace existing centers, already inadequate for
MCH purposes and unable to meet the demands of an expanding family planning
program.
4.13      The program centers on the sub-district MCH/FP center, which is
the headquarters of the midwife. This is the lowest level at which a
full range of family planning services is regularly delivered; it accom-
modates staff essential for the support and supervision of workers engaged
in the motivation and information aspects of the program. The sub-district
level center is the key local facility for IUD insertions and for ensuring
the proper euxamination of women both for precontraceptive assessment and
postcontraceptive follow-up care. The centers selected for renewal are
now located in dilapidated buildings, many in rented village houses without
proper sanitation, privacy, or adequate space. Adequate buildings for the
delivery of MCH/FP services are essential to ensure proper asepsis during
examinations. The new ouildings (35% of existing centers at district
level and 38% of existing centers at sub-district level) will provide the
adequate. h-se from which staff can operate family planning services and
give pa:rticular attention to women recently delivered at home. Sites are
listed in Annex 22.
Urban
4.14      The project provides for the building of 11 MCH/FP centers in Sura-
baja and 17 in Djakarta, the two largest cities in Java. Of the 16 sub-
district supervisory MCH/FP centers in Surabaja, 3 have adequate buildings
and local budgetary provision has been made for 2 more, leaving 11 without
adequate accommodation. The project ensures that all the city's sub-districts
will have adequate MCH/FP facilities with a 10-bed maternity ward. At present,
12 of the 16 centers have resident doctors, in addition to supervisory mid-
wives, midwives, and supporting staff. The projecti will facilitate the



- 15 -
expansion of the urban family planning program by providing adequate accom-
modation and allowing for an expansion of the family planning maternity-
centered approach, which is working well in three of the city's centers. Of
the 15 MCH/FP centers to be built in Djakarta, 9 will be centrally located
and have 20-bed maternity wards, while 8 will cover peripheral areas and have
10-bed maternity wards. There are aboiu.t 160,000 deliveries in Djakarta each
year, of which about half are in maternrity hospitals and clinics. Assuming
a bed utilization rate of 60 per annum, the additional maternity facilities
will provide for 15,600 deliveries annually, reducing the current capacity
deficit for institutional deliveries by about 20%. The provi3ion of mlall
neighborhood maternity units instead of large hospital facilities is designed
to achieve wider geographic coverage, thie promotion of local interest and
prestige to overcome the latent suspicion of institutional facilities, and
the promotion of interest in family planning work among staff where doctors
would be otherwise confined to outpatient work. Sites are listed in Annex 22.
C. Family Planning Training
4.15      This component covers the construction and equipping of 6 provincial
training centers (PTCs) and 10 subtraining centers (STCs). Details of the
necessary staff and equipment are described in Annex 23 and details of accom-
modation are in Annex 33. The PTCs will be used for the in-service training
of medical officers, supervisory midwives, MCH/FP midwives, and ANMs. They
will also deal with the training of mass communication personnel, statistical
staff, and administrators. PTC staff will also carry out training evaluation,
provide supervisory support to lower-level training activities, provide re-
training, and prepare teachers for population education work. Each PTC should
train 300-500 persons annually and facilities will be provided for instructional
and dormitory accommodation for 50 trainees and staff. To improve the teaching
standards of the training staff, the project provides for 20 man-years of
fellowships for overseas training.
4.16      To provide for the training of supportive workers at village level
(nonmedical field workers, group leaders, information officers, and social
workers, etc.), 10 subtraining centers (STCs) will be established. They will
have accommodation for 30 trainees and staff. The STCs must be accessible
to village-level workers and their locations have been selected at regency
headquarters. Decentralization will provide training as close to field
conditions as possible and help to ensure closer support after training.
4.17      The training bureau of the NFPCB must assist the standing com-
mittee (see para 3..7) in detennining priorities and in contracting train-
ing centers to implement training programs based on standard curricula. The
several centers must concentrate on the training of specific types of per-
sonnel; to establish schools catering to all categories will involve wastage
of resources and urnnecessary dilution of training potential. Training levels
.and loads are shown in Annex 15. A clear definition of the job functions of
each type of potential trainee is needed; an outline is provided in Annex 24
but a detailed study of the job functions of primary and supportive workers
must be undertaken as soon as possible. Recommendations for training curri-
cula are described in Annex 25.



16 -
4.18      To be fully effective, the ongoing training of dukuns and extensive
family planning orientation for community leaders must be given by people
well known to the conmiunity and must be provided at village level. These are
continuing functions of midwives and field workers; they require transport
and communications equipment, for which the project provides.
D. Nonmedical Field Workers Program
4.19      The project provides salary support, on a declining basis, for
7,000 nomedical field workers and 1,400 additional group leaders, as well
as a new supervisory structure of the fielc'  rkers program. The latter
comprises i15 supervisory staff at sub-dis.,_t level, 12 at provincial level,
and 6 at central level. Provision is also made for vehicles to ensure mobi-
lity necessary for effective guidance and supervision.
4.20      Nonmedical field workers are the only field staff involved full time
in family planning. Government efforts to train more nonmedical field workers
will be helped by the fMily planning training component of this project. The
contin-aous recruitment of increasingly large numbers of new acceptors can
be ensured only by the effective use of nonmedical field workers in face-to-
face education and information work. Supervision is essential to control and
direct the planmed expansion of the number of field workers. Even with only
some 400 field workers, the program is facing serious difficulties caused by
lack of interdepartmental communication at field level, varied interpretations
of the role of the field worker, and lack of adequate administrative direction
from the center. A sound supervisory structure is required to introduce and
maintain cohesion and direction. Anmex 9 outlines the background to the
family planning nonmedical field worker program as initially conceived, con-
siders its problems, and makes recommendations on decisions urgently required
to ensure the effectiveness of its contribution to the national family plan-
ning program. The Government has given assurances that, the effectiveness
of the noimedical field workers program will be ensured by the implementa-
tion of financial and administrative measures to be agreed to by the
Association.
E. Evaluation and Research
4.21      This project component is designed to:
a.   strengthen the evaluation and research capability of the NFPCB
at central and provincial levels;
b.   enhance Indonesian institutional research capability in providing
essential contract research as required and coordinated by the
NFPCB; and
c.   develop a specific research program based on a maternity-centered
approach to family planning to provide inforxmtion essential to
the development of the national program.
4.22      In its present form, the NFPCB's evaluation and management inform-
ation system will be unable to realize its potential importance to program
success. To be fully effective, the bureau of reporting and recording and
the bureau of evaluation and research must come under one technical director.
The Government has given assurances that the bureau of reporting and
recording and the bureau of evaluation and research will be brought under



- 17 -
the direction of one technically competent director. Their capabilities will
bJe enhanced by providing a foreign adviser for 2 years with additional short-
term consultation, fellowships for overseas training, as well as salary support
for additional staff including a demographer, social scientist, arid economist,
funding for short-term studies, and for in-country seminars, equipment, and
vehicles. This assurance will enable the NFPCB to take a positive lead in
directing family planning research and provide an essential forum through
which positive, fully documented aspects of the national family planning pro-
gram can be publicized.
4.23      The NFPCB's provincial offices have neither the staff nor the
equipment needed to carry out primary processing of provincial data. Colla-
tion, checking, and basic analysis must be done at this level where referral
is easy and checked data are immediately available for operational staff.
Salary support for the additional posts of one health controller/statistician
and one clerical assistant, and a anall provision for essential equipment is
included for each of the six NFPCB provincial offices. The Government has
given assurances that it will establish and maintain the additional posts
required for the NFPCB's evaluation functions.
4.24      In order to take the leadership in guiding family planning research,
the NFPCB should be able to use the best resources available in Indonesia for
contract research. The project provides technLical assistance, training sup-
port, and equipment inputs for institutions to carry out essential research
projects wich are operationally oriented. These institutions are the
Institute of Demography and the Population Study Center of the Institute for
Social and Economic Research. Annex 26 includes an outline of the studies
which require urgent consideration, the techn-ical assistance required, and
details of the institutions which would be involved in contract research.
4.25      The project also makes provision for a specific research project
based on the Taylor-Berelson proposals for an intermational study of the
feasibility of providing comprehensive family planning services based on
MCH services. The proposals consider that the use of staff and facilities
for service delivery can be maximized by using a maternity-centered approach
to farily planning motivation. The project provides for a demonstration of
this approach in one regency in East Java with one control regency in West
Java. It will be developed in association with the Population Council as
part of the international study. Beyond the purpose of testing the effect-
iveness of the approach in producing a steady increment in the numbers of
family planning acceptors, the demonstration field postpartum program will
detennine quantitatively the optimum level of maternity care needed to pro-
duce the desired effects with regard to family planning as well as health.
Annex 26 details the requirements of the demonstration field postpartum
program which include two foreign advisers for 3 years, salary support on
a declining basis over 4 years for additional staff, the construction of
additional MCH/FP centers, vehicles, equipment and provision for surveys
and studies to evaluate the demonstration field postpartum program. The
Government has given assurances that it will establish and maintain the
additional posts required for the demonstration field postpartum program.
F. Family Planning Administration Centers
4.26      lhe project provides for a central family planning administration
center in Djakarta and for provincial offices in Surabaja, Semarang,



- 18 -
Djogjakarta, Djakarta, Denpasar and Bandung. The central NFPCB headquarters
in Djakarta provide insufficient working accommodation and staff are unable
to function efficiently. There are no offices available in the building for
the advisory team, technical advisers, or planned staff expansion in the
fields of evaluation and communications. The proposed building includes
office space for the NFPCB and advisers, as well as space for evaluation
equipment; it will constitute an effective center from which the national
family planning program will be administered. Details of the office accom-
modation and warehouse space are described in Annex 33. The provincial
NFPCB offices are similarly inadequately accommodated and provision is
made for new family planning centers now accommodated in buildings owned
by provincial health departments. The proiect also provides vehicles and
office equipment for the NFPCB's central and provincial administrative
services.
G. Other Transport Requirements
4.27      This component provides for 115 cars, 1,L400 motorcyclesn, 2 foreign
advisers, and survey funds, as well as spares and freight costs for all pro-
ject transport requirements. Provision for vehicles has been included under
each component. This component provides for 115 cars and 1,400 motorcycles
which cannot be appropriately linked elsewhere. The cars and motorcycles
are urgently needed for use by regency doctors and midwives respectively.
The regency doctor is also the head of the NFPCB regency organization and
is required to make regular visits to family planning and health units.
Without reliable transport, this is impossible; many of the vehicles pro-
vided by UNICEF are obsolete or nearing the end of their economic life.
The component provides for one vehicle for each regency. With the
addition of family planning, the workload of midwives has increased con-
siderably. To increase the.rate of home visits, light motorized vehicle is
required. UNICEF is providing 1 ,600 motorized bicycles for this purpose,
but an additional 1 ,400 will be needed to cope with the expanding family
planning program.
4.28      The organization established in cooperation with UNICEF by the
Ministry of Health for the management, servicing, and repair of the health
service fleet is in need of considerable strengthening. The project provides
for two foreign aLdvisers for 3 years -- one a fleet manager, and the other a
maintenance organization manager to assist in the direction and maintenance
of a fleet expanded by the demands of the family planning program. To im-
prove fleet management and utilization, it also provides for a survey of
current transport utilization. A summary of the project vehicle requirements
is shown in Table 1 of Annex 27.
H. Hospital Postpartum Program
4.29      The Population Council established the International Postpartumi
Family Planning Program in 1966 as a demonstration of the value of such an
approach in presenting family planning information, education, and services
to women during pregnancy and after delivery. Indonesia was among the
countries represented in the successful demonstration. This component pro-
vides for a foreign adviser for 2 years, salary support on a declining basis



-19 -
over 4 years for additional staff, equipment and vehicles, in order to allow
the Goverent to take over and expand the current program. To the 26 hos-
pitals supported up to now by the Population Council, 30 hospitals will be
added in the first year of the project and 30 in the next year. Details of
the current and expanded programs and inputs needed for the latter are
shown in Annex 28.
I. Information and Comnunications
4.30      To help with the development of a local capability in this new
field, provision is made for essential audiovisual and office equipment,
and the necessary transporta-tion., as well as 36 man-months of foreign con-
sultancy services, for fellowships and study tours, and for training semi-
nars and workshops. In addition, salary support is provided on a declining
basis over 4 years for essential, additional staff to strengthen the NFPCB'S
Information and Motivation Bureau. The project also provides for the test-
ing and trial production al' experimental documents and materials using mass
communications media. Detailo are in Annex 29.
4.31      There is also an urgent need to develop the provision of fanily
planning information at the peripheral service level. The project makes
provision for 115 suitably equipped mobile family planning information units,
details of which are at Annex 29. They would form part of the Ministry of
Infoxmation's information unit in each regency. Each unit, in.addition to
using various media such as tapes, films, etc., would be able to reproduce,
on a limited scale, material with local color for distribution down to vil-
lage level. The Govermnent has given assurances that it will establish and
maintain the additional posts required to strengthen the information and
communications program.
J. Population Education
4.32      This component is designed to lhelp the Goverrment in introducing
the subject of population education into school curri.cula at the most
suitable points and into out-of-school education. It provides for one
foreign adviser for 5 years, short-term consultants, fellowships for train-
ing, equipment needed to develop texts and teaching aids, and support for
seminars and workshops to train those who will be involved in furthering
the subject of population education as well as community leaders whose
influence on its introduction will be critical. Details are in Annex 30.
Commui-nication needs in the field of population education are presently both
urgent and sensitive. Plarns are needed for the design of curricula and
materials, for children and youth, as well as adult community groups of
differing ethnic and religious background. The direct, primarily clinical
approach to family planning education will not be sufficient to change
customs and attitudes wihich must be influenced by long-range education
plans conceived quite differently from the strategy employed in urgent-
ly communicating information about the national family planning program.
K. Advisory Team
4.33      Besides the technical assistance provided where necessary for each
component (a total of 11 advisers for 31 man-years), the project also pro-
vides for three foreign advisers Lor 2 years to stirengthen the senior manage-
ment capability of the NFPCB. The UNFPA has already made available U. S.



- 20
$400,000 as preproject financing and the advisers are in the process of
recruitment by the Association. The advisers will be seconded to the
Government of Indonesia and will be directly responsible to the Chairman
of the NFPCB. One adviser will be responsible for program management,
a second for family planning training, and a third for family planning
communications. Thei4r advice would be directed at the overall national
program and not restricted to the scope of this project. The Goverrment
has given assurances that it will employ such advisers to the Association's
satisfaction.
L. Project Implementation Unit
4L3       The project will be implemented by the NFPCB. This demands the
effective development of those functions essential to the effective dis-
charge of its coordinating role. It will be achieved by a modification of
its organizational structure to secure mra effective planming, budgeting,
and supervision. A spund managerial element is needed to comaplement the
present emphasis on the technical aspects of program development. To this
end, the project provides salary support on a declining basis over 4 years
to cover the essential additional posts of Deputy Chairman (Program Manage-
ment) and two executive assistants. Four fellowship years are aso pro-
vided for foreign training in administration and logistics. The proposed
restructuring of the NFPCB is in Annex 8 and provides the basis for
attaching an effecttve project implementation unit (PIU) (para 5.09 and
Annex 34) to the NFPB. To asBist the PIU in the management of the project,
provision is made for a firm of consultants to be retained, the functions
of which would include the preparation of procedural and design guidelines,
assistance with tendering procedures, and the establishment of an effective
accounting system. The restructuring of the NFPCB and the appointment of
a Deputy Chairman (Program Management) on a full time basis, after views
on the qualifications and experience of candidates have been exchanged
with the Asscciation, are conditions of credit effectiveness.
V. COSTS 3 FINANCING2 AND PROJECT IMPLMENTLTION
A. Costs
5.01      The total project cost is estimated at Rp 13,695 million. Of
this, Rp 4,524 million (33%) would bet for civil works, Rp 1,079 million
(8%) for vehicles, Rp 1,992 million (14%) for technical assistance,
Rp 498 million (4%) for equipment not related to civil works, and
Rp 3,112 million (23%) for operating costs. Project costs are shown in
Annex 31 and summarized in the following table:



- 21 -
Breakdown by Disbursement Cateagor
Foreign
Exchange
RP (In millions)        U.S.$ (In millions)    Per
Item                     Local   Foreign   Total   Local Foreign Total centage
Civil Works:
Construction           2,241    1,535    3,776    5.4     3.7     9.1    40
Furniture and
Equipment               83      374      457    0.2     0.9     1.1    80
Professional Fees        249       42      291    o.6     0.1     0.7    10
Vehicles (including
Spares aLid Freight)     208      871    1,079    0.5     2.1     2.6    80
Technical Assistance:
Advisory Services        208      705      913    0.5     1.7     2.2    75
Fellowships               83      208      291    0.2     0.5     0.7    65
Research/Survey Funds    705       83      788    1.7     0.2     1.9    10
Equipment (Audio-
visual, etc.)             42      456      498    0.1     1.1     1.2    90
Operating Costs:
Personnel              2,614       -     2,614    6.3      -      6.3     -
Maintenance              457       41      498    1 .1    0.1     1 .2   10
Contingencies            1 s494     996    2,490    3.6     2li     6.o    40
TOTAL                    8,384    5,311   13,695   20.2    12.8    33.0
5.02      The distribution of expenditures according to the functional com-
ponents presented in the project description is as follows:
Breakdown by Functional Category
U. S. $ (In millions)
Tech-
nical           Opera-
Civil   Vehi- Assist- Equip-   ting             Per-
Item                    'Works   cles   ance    ment    costs   Total  centage
Paramedical Education     3.90   0.06    -      0.02    0.53     4.51   16.7
MCH/FP Centers            3.77    -      -       -       -       3.77   14.0
Family Planning Training 2.12    0.15   0.20    0.07    0.53     3.07   11.4
Nonmedical Field Workers   -     0.74    -       -      3.30     4.04   15.0
Evaluation/Research       0.28   0.04   2.46    0.15    0.64     3.57   13.2
Family Planning Adminis-
tration Centers         0.81   0.03    -      0.04    0.01     0.89    3.3
Other Transport Require-
ments                    -     0.97   0.21    0.05    0.01     1.24    4.6
Hospital Postpartum
Program                  -     0.02   0.10    0.04    1.71     1.87    6.9
Infonmation and
Communications           -     0.59   0.23    0.72    0.53     2.07    7.7
Population Education       -     0.01   0.73    o.o8    0.16     0.98    3.6
Advisory Team              -     0.01   0.34    0.05    0.05     0.45    1.6
Project Inplementation
Unit                     -      -     0.46    0.01    0.07     0.54    2.0
TOTAL                    10.88   2.62   4.73    1.23    7.54    27.00  100.0
Contingencies                                                    6.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                              33.00



- 22
503      The budgeted costs for civil works, detailed in Annex 32, were
based on current costs obtained from the Ministry of Public Works and Power,
the provincial Directorates of Planning and Construction, the Building
Information Center. and the National Building Research Instit-ute. In addi-
tion, two of the five largest semi-nationalized building corporati ns were
consulted. The unit cost rates employed vary from Rp 25,000 per m for
simple small unit construction, to Rp 40,000 per m2 for multi-storey con-
struction. Furniture and equipment costs are based on current market prices.
Fees to cover the cost of architectural design and documentation, and adju-
dication of bids have been taken as between 5% and 8% of the cost of the
works, depending on the degree of repetition. Costs of imported items are
net of any duties, from which the project will be exempted. The costs of
site surveys and of building permit taxes have been excluded. Schedules
of accommodation for facilities for which the budgeted costs have been
estimated are in Annex 33.
5.04      The estimates include provisiorn of 10% for contingencies for
unforeseen works and quantity changes. In addition, an allowance of .5%
per annum is included for price escalation on all items. Inflation in
Indonesia has recently been brought under control and an escalation rate
of about 5% per annum is considered reasonable. Physical and escalation
contingencies are the same for local and foreign expendi-tures.
B. Proposed Financing
5.05      The projecb would be financed jointly by a proposed IDA credit and
a UNFPA grant. The UNFPA has agreed to make an unconditional pledge of its
full contribution towards the esti.mated expenditure of the first 2 years of
the project (about U.S.$8.0 million) and 25% of the final 3 years (about U.S.
$1.3 million) from existing resources. The balance of U.S.$3.9 million has
been pledged subject to the availability of funds. As usual under an IDA
credit agreement, the Government would have residual responsibility for pro-
viding funds needed to complete the project. The financing plan prepared
for the project is shown below:
Rp           U.S.$    Percentage of
(In millions) (In Millions) Project Costs
IDA Credit                             5,478          13.2          40
UNFPA Grant                            5,478           13.2          40
Government of Indonesia Contribution   2,739           6.6          20
TOTAL                                 13,695          33.0          100



- -:k -
5.o6      IDA and UNFPA would be jointly responsible for the total costs
net of taxes of civil works, transport, technical assistance and equipment.
Operating costs, which are incremental and additional to the present costs
of the national program, would be funded on a declining basis with IDA and
UNFPA sharing 80% of these costs in the first year, 60% in the second year,
40% in the third year, and 20% in the fourth year. The Government would con-
tribute the balance and be responsible for all operating costs in the fifth
year of the project. Prcovision is made for such assistance because of the
burden created by the Governnent's proposal to spend about U.S.$58 million
(excluding the IDA-UNFPA contribution to the project) in the period 1972-77,
about 60% of which covers operating costs to maintain the momentum of the
national program.
5.07      The proposed credit would contribute U.S.$13.2 million equivalent
or about 40% of the total project costs. The credit and grant would together
cover the whole of the foreign exchange component and about 70% of local cur-
rency expenditures as well. The Government would contribute 20% of total
project costs. The prior effectiveness of the UNFPA grant is a condition
of credit effectiveness.
C. Implementation
5.C8      To ensure the proper execution of the project, efficient coordination
within the Government of Indonesia, and liaison with the Association, the NFPCB
would be responsible for the administration and coordination of the project.
In addition to its established mechanidss for coordination and cooperation,
the NFPCB would establish a project implementation unit (PIU) as part of its
central organisation. The PIU would be headed by the Deputy Chairman
(Program Management) of the NFPCB and would consist of two major wings --
one dealing with the project's physical planning and construction, headed
by a Construction Coordinator, the other dealing with project teclnical
assistance, transportation and equipment, headed by a Program Input
Coordinator. The functions of these two administrators and the structure
of the PIU are described in Annex 34. The PIU would have appropriate
supporting staff, including an accountant, procuremeInt officer, draftsmen
and clerical staff. The Deputy Chairman (Program Management) would be
assisted by a project implementation comnnittee (PIC) comprising represen-
tatives of the Ministries of Health, Public Works, Information, Finance
and Interior, and representatives of the international agencies and
private foreign foundations involved in the implementation of the project.
5.09      The need to coordinate and establish overall building and
operations procedures for the project and generally supervise all aspects
of physical implementation, as well as the coordination of procurement of
materials, vehicles, equipment and administration of fellowships and study
tours, requires the employment of professional advisory manpower beyond the
existing resources within t.he Government. It is proposed, therefore, to
retain a firm of management consultants, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association, to advise and support the PIU on all matters concerning
the realization of the project. The establishment and staffing of the PIU,
and the conclusion of contracts with the consulting firm are conditions of
credit effectiveness.



5.10      Pruper environmental and constructional standards for the physical
components of the project, as well as general supervision of the implementa-
tion of construction, will be the responsibility of an architectural team.
It is proposed that these functions should be performed by the Hospital
Design Workshop of the School of Architecture of the Institute of Technology
at Bandung, heacded by the Deputy Head of the school. This team, augmented
as required, and referred to as the Appointed Architect, will be retained by
the Government of Indonesia, by a form of agreement on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association. The signing of this agreemen t is a condition
of credit effectiveness. The Appointed Architect will work in close coopera-
tion with the Construction Coordinator in the PIU, the Ministry of Health,
the Minis-try of Works, and its provincial directorates, as well as the
Regional Housing Center of the Ministry of Works in Bandung. The Ministry
of Works will be responsible for complete surveys and description of all
sites, as well as detailed supervision of the execution of the works. The
duties and functions to be performed by the Appointed Arcehitect and the
Ministry of Works are detailed in Appendix C of Annex 34&. The Government
has given assurances that it will acquire not later than 15 months from the
signing of the Credit Agreement all land and rights in land required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the project, and
that it will provide to the boundary of each site, as necessary, connecting
roads, sewerage, power, water and other supporting facilities. Fees for
the professional services of the Appointed Architect will be determined on
a fixed fee basis. Projects will be packaged for tendering according to
recommendations agreed between the Appointed Architect and the Construction
Coordinator and submitted to the NFPCB. A schedule showing the timing of
the implementation of the construction components is in Annex 36.
Implementation of Nonconstruction Components
5.11      Nonconstruction components would be implemented through the appro-
priate bureaus of the NFPCB and the implementing units of the national family
planning program. In order to ensure adequate support for the NFPCB in its
implementation of specific components in which Indonesian technical expertise
is presently inadequate, the Goverment has given ass-urances that it will make
appropriate and effective arrangements satisfactory to the Association with
WHO, UNESCO, UNICEF, other United Nations bodies, the Population Council, or
other sources of expertise acceptable to the Association, for assistance in
carrying out, respectively, the hospital postpartum prograa, the information
and education activities, the vehicle and transportation components, the
assistance to the Institute of Demography and of Economic and Social Research,
and the demonstration field postpartum program.
Contracts and Procurement
5.12      Contracts for the construction of the family planning administration
center in Djakarta, estimated to cost U.S.$316,000 equivalent, would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. The rest of the civil works
contracts, will be packaged by the Appointed Architect with the cooperation of
the Construction Coordinator and the Ministry of Works. Since they comprise
small units scattered at 310 sites in Java and Bali, they would not be suita-
ble for international bidding and would be awarded on a competitive basis



after bidding by prequalified local contractors. Some furniture contracts
are likely to be awarded to local firms. Domestic manufacturers qf furniture
and equipment would be accorded a preferential margin equal to 15% of the
CIF costs of competing imorts or to the existing rate of duty, whichever is
the lower.
5.13      Small amounts of hospital equipment (estimated at less than U.S.
$25,000 equivalent) would be procured direct from UNICEF stocks to standardize
with equipment previously supplied by UNICEF; other equipment (such as office,
data processing and audiovisual equipment) would be either packaged for inter-
national bidding, or as is more likely, obtained by domestic tendering in
Indonesia where a large number of overseas suppliers are represented.
5.14     Vehicles and spares would be procured by UNICEF for the Government
on the basis of international competitive bidding except when the use of
UNICEF's existing long-term negotiated contracts and preferential freight
rates is indicated in the interests of (a) the standardization of vehicles
supplied by the project with the existing fleet of over 600 vehicles already
supplied by UNICEF for the health services; (b) economy in quality and
variety of spares required; and (c) economy in maintenance because vehicles
would be maintained together with the fleet under existing arrangements with
the Ministry of IHealth.
Disbursements
5-15      Disbursements will be administered by the Association on behalf
of UNFPA, who will deposit funds quarterly in advance in accordance with
estimates of disbursements. IDA and UN'PA funds will be used jointly in
equal proportions to finance the total cost of civil works, vehicles,
technical assistance and equipment (about U.S.$19.5 million); 80% of the
operating costs in the first year, 60% in the second year, 40% in the third
year, and 20% in the fourth year of the project, representing approximately
32% of the total operating costs (about U.S.$24 million); about U.S.$4.5
million remains for contingencies. Disbursement requests against civil
works, vehicles, technical assistance and equipment will be supported by
the Association's usual requirements of contracts, invoices, statements of
work performed and evidence of payment and shipment where applicable. For
the operation and maintenance costs, claims will be supported by a state-
ment of expenditures, certified by the Deputy Chairman (Program Management).
The Government has given assurances that the accounts and financial statements
of the NFPCB related to the project will be audited at least annua2llY by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The UNFPA has already
provided funds to finance the advisory team which is expected to be appointed
shortly; it is intended that IDA funds be used, after effectiveness, to finance
50% of all expenditures already incurred to that date. UNFPA has no objection
to guaranteeing 50% of all "agreements to reimburse" entered into by the Asso-
ciation; it will not, however, collect colrmaitment fees for 'cheir portion of
any irrevocable commitment.
5.16      In order to take into account the fact that the Bank Group and the
United Nations do not have identical memberships, and that the availability
of the additional final amount of the UNFPA grant remains subject to confirm-
ation by the UNFPA, the arrangements for disbursement described in para 5.15
would not be followed when:



- 26
a.   withdrawal of the proceeds of the credit in respect of the cost
of goods and services is precluded by the fact that they were
obtained from countries which are not members of the Bank
(other than Switzerland); and
b.   the UNFPA notified the Association that (i) any disbursement
from the UNFPA grant would be in violation of rules applicable
to the use of the UNFPA grant, or (ii) there were insufficient
grant funds available for which to disburse.
In the case of (a), the Association, upon instruction from UNFPA, would dis-
burse against such costs entirely out of the UNFPA grant as specified in such
instructions. Provided it involves a Bank member or Switzerland, in the case
cf (b), the Association would disburse such UNFPA funds as are available, if
any, and pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement, proceeds of its credit
only. In the event of any non-shared disbursement of this kind, the UNFPA,
and the Association would consult on the making of adjustments to future dis-
bursements which may be appropriate cr desirable in order that total disburse-
ments from the UNFPA grant and from the credit remain, as nearly as practicable,
equal.
5.17      Project expenditures are estimated to be approximately as follows:
U.S.$ (In millions)
1972-73   1973-74   1074-75   1        1976-77  Total
IDA Credit                2.5       5.5       3.2      1.5       0$5     13.2
UNFPA Grant               2.5       5.5       3.2      1.5       G.5     13.2
Goverrment of Indonesia
Contribution            0.3       0.8       1.3       1.8      2.4      6.6
TOTAL                     5.3      11.8       7.7      4.8       3.4     33.0
A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in Annex 37.
VI. SOCIO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.o0      The conflict between the high rate of population growth and the
objective of raising the living standards, and the elimination of unemploy-
ment for the large numbers has been clearly realized by the Indonesian
Government. The project will reinforce and expand the Government's efforts
to reduce fertility, thereby creating consideirable social and economic bene-
fits. It wilL contribute towards an increase i.n per capita income, an
improvenent in the balance of paments, ande a reduction in unemployment.
Improvement in matermal health through less frequent child bearing and the
provision of better MCH services wil1 reduce maternal mortality. Infant
mortality will also decline due to better nutrition and care resulting from
smaller families. In addition, it will also contribute in (a) reducing
tension and social problems associated with economic pressures and unemploy-
ment, and (b) promoting social justice through equalization of opportunities
by serving the poorer sections of the coommunity with usually larger families.



 27 -
6.02      The (quantitative benefits estimated to be obtained from an addi-
tional reduction in fertility with project inputs over that with ongoing
program are only illustrative. In the absence of data for Indonesia, in
some cases, assumptions are based on experience in other countries.
6.03      The number of acceptors of family planning is estimated to increase
from about 270C,000 at present to approximately 1.6 million in 1975 with the
project inputs instead of less than 500,000 without them. By 1980, it is
estimated tiat about one-fifth of the females in reproductive ages in Java
and Bali would accept family planning with the project inputs as against
less than 10% without them. This proportion is estimated to increase to
more than half by 20CO due to program improvement through the project, in-
stead of less than one-fourth without it.
6.04      As a result of the above measures, the gross reproduction rate in
Indonesia is estimated to decline from 3.2 at present to 1.7 (implying a birth
rate of 27.4) by 2000 with the project inputs instead of 2.6 (implying a birth
rate of 39) without them. This represents over twice as large a decline in
fertility as a result of project inputs than would otherwise be the case.
The population is estimated to be smaller by about 39% in 2000. With the
ongoing program, the rate of growth of the population would be about 3% per
annUm in 2000, but would be reduced to less than 2% per annum with the project
inputs. (An analysis of the demographic impact of the project is given in
Annex 38.)
6.05      The way in which the effect of reduced population growth is trans-
lated into economic benefits is illustrated in Annex 39. The economic
benefits of a reduction in population size, expressed in terms of an in-
creased per capita income, are clear. The per capita gross domestic product
(GDP) is estimated to be higher by 6% with the reduction in the populat,ion
growth rate. The total cost of the project is in the order of 1% of the
investment as necessary for an equivalent increase in per capita income.
6.06      A slowing of population growth would also have favorable balance-
of-payment effects in an economy such as Indonesia's, which has required
heavy food-grain imports in recent years. While these benefits would become
substantial by 1980 if present food shortages and balance-of-payment tight-
ness continued through the decade, expected developments in the agricultural
and petrole-u sectors are expected to make these benefits less important
than they now appear.
6.07      In the long run, the project will contribute to a slowdown in the
growth of the labor force (assuming no significant change in the participation
rate). In a country with serious problems of employment and underemployment,
and with uncertain prospects of solving these problems through high econoLic
growth rates above, any reduction in the growth of the labor force should be
beneficial. With the project, the labor force is estimated to be lower by
nearly 5 million in the year 2000, with consequent favorable effects on the
employment situation.



- 28 -
VII. AGRI3EMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of Iridonesia on the following points:
a.   A standing commuittee on family planning training will be esta-
blished to be responsible for recommending to the Chairman of
the NFPCB training policies and priorities, the appointment of
training responsibilities and the use for training facilities
for which the project provides (para 3.17);
b.   Sufficient additional posts will be established and maintained
to employ staff trained in the new paramedical schools provided
in the project (para 4.04);
c.   Stiidents will be trained to graduate as auxiliary nurse-midwives
after a 2-year course under service contracts providing for
stipends (para 4I.05);
d.   The new school in Surabaja will be restricted to the training of
nurse-midwives (para 4.06);
e.   Supplemental training will be provided to upgrade the existing
qualifications of existing nurses, midwives, assistant nurses
and assistant midwives to nurse-midwives and auxiliary nurse-
midwives respectively (para 4,11);
f.   The effectiveness of the nonmedical field workers program will
be ensured by the implementatiLon of such financial and adminis-
trative measures as agreed to by the Association (para 4.20);
g. The bureau of evaluation and research and the bureau of reporting
and recording will be brought under the direction of one technically
competent director (para 4.22);
h.   Additional posts required for the NFPCB's evaluation functions
(para 4.23), and for the demonstration field postpartum program
(para 4.29) will be established and maintained;
i.   Additional posts required to strengthen the information and
communications program will be established and maintained (para
4.31);
J.   Not later than 15 months from the signing of the Credit Agreement,
all land and rights in land required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the project will be acquired
by the Government, which will also provide, to the boundary of each
site, as necessary, connecting roads, sewerage, power, water, and
other supporting fa"ilities (para 5.10);



29 -
k.   Appropriate and effective arrangements satisfactory to the Association
will be made with WHO, UNESCO, UNICEF, other United Nations bodies,
the Population Council, or other sources of expertise acceptable to the
Association for assistance in carrying out, respectively,, the hospital
postpartum program, the information and education activities, the
vehicle and transportation comuponents, the assistance to the Institutes
of Damography and of Economic and Social Research, and the demonstra-
tion field postpartum program (para 5.11);
1.   The accounts and financial statements of the NFPCB related to the
project will be audited at least annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association (para 5.15);
7.02      As conditions of credit effectiveness:
a.   the NFPCB organization will have been restructured substantially
as set out in Annex 8 and an appointment on a full-time basis
made to the post of Deputy Chainman (Program Management) after
views on the qualifications and experience of candidates have
been exchanged with the Association (para 4.34);
b.   the PIU will have been established substantially as set out in
Annex 34 and staffed to the satisfaction of the Association, and
the management consultants employed (para 5.09);
C.   the UNlFPA's grant to the joint project will have become fully
effective under its agreements with the Goverment and the Asso-
eiation (para 5.07); and
d.   the agreement retaining the Appointed Architect will have been
made by the Government on terms and conditions satisfac tory to
the Association (para 5.10).
7.03      Subject to the assurances and fulfillment of conditions described
above, the project provides a satisfactory basis for a development credit,
of U.S.$13.2 million equivalent, to the Government of Indonesia, equal to
40% of total project costs.
February 29, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 10
DEMOGRAPHIC BACKGROUND
Population Growth
1.        According to the 1930 census, the population of Indonesia, covering
Java, Madura, and the outer islands, was 60.7 million. It reached 97.1 million
Ln the next census of 1961.   The census was undertaken in September 1971 follow-
ing an unsatisfactory preenumeration in 1970. The results of the census are
not yet available. The population estimates are, therefore, tentative and may
change on the basis of census data. Various estimates of population for 1970
indicate that the size of the population would be around 121 million. The rate
of growth of population fluctuated during 1931-61. It was around 1.5% per
annum in the thirties, with a birth rate of about 48 and a death rate of more
than 33. The death rate declined later to 27.8. In the decade of the forties,
vital rates underwent abrupt changes as a result of the Japanese occupation
during World War II. While fertility might have declined during this period,
mortality increased sharply to 35.1, resulting in lower rate of growth of
population of 0.9%. During the fifties, the decline in mortality and probable
increase in fertility, due to the reunion of couples separated during the war,
contributed to a growth rate of around 2% per annum.    In the 1960's, the rate
of growth of population was estimated at 2.5% per annum (see Table 1). In
recent years, it is estimated to have accelerated to 2.9% due to the fall in
death rates to 19 and a constant birth rate of about 48.
Regional Estimates
2.        In 1961, about 65% of the population lived in Java and Madura,
16% in Sumatra, and 1.8% in Bali (see Table 2). East Java is the biggest
province in Indonesia in terms of area and population.    More than one-third
of the population lives in East Java and Bali.
3.        In area and population, East Java is the largest of Java's six
provinces (see Table 3). With the island of Madura, it covers an area of
48,000 km2, and at the 1961 census had a population of 21.8 million. The
1970 population estimate is 24.8 million.   Surabaja, the provincial capital,
has a population of about 2.1 million; with seven other municipalities, the
urban population totals 3.3.million, or about 13% of the total provincial
population.
4.        Bali, an island close to East Java, has a population estimated at
2.1 million and covers an area of 5,561 km2. Culturally, it is quite dif-
ferent from East Java; the people speak Balinese, a Polynesian language, and
90% are Hindu. With about 375 persons per km2, Bali is one of the most densely
populated islands.
Fertility and Mortality
5.        In the absence of reliable, vital statistics, fertility and mortality
estimates are based on age-structure data from the 1961 census. They are sup-
ported by some surveys in different parts of the country; so far, there has
been no national survey, On these bases, the birth rate in 1961 was estimated



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 10
at 47.6 for the country as a whole.  The corresponding general fertility rates1!
and gross reproduction rates2/ were 207 and 3.1 respectively.   The death rate
was estimated at 22.4, while the expectation of life at birth worked out at
45 years.  Since 1961, there seems to have been little change in these rates
except for a slight fall in the death rate.  It is difficult to say how much
reliance can be placed on regional estimates of fertility and mortality.
While mortality does not differ among different regions in Indonesia, fer-
tility is highest in West Java and lowest in Djogjakarta (Table 4). The
age-specific fertility rate reveals a curve with a plateau typical of high
fertility countries. Fertility is high at ages 20-29 with a peak at ages
25-29 years. It contitues to be high at the later ages of 30-34 years
(Table 5).
Age and Sex Structure
6.        According to the 1961 census, the age structure of the population
revealed that 42% of the population was under 15 years of age and 2.5% over
65 years (Table 6). The sex ratio was 103 females to 100 males. The age
structure indicated a dependency ratio of 88. Although the actual age and
sex structure of population will not be available until after the 1971
census data are released, it seems that the dependency ratio has not improved
because of the constant high level of fertility during the intercensal decade.
Age at Marriage
7.        The mean age at marriage is 25 years for males and 18 years for
females.  The proportion among single females has increased only slightly
from 52% in 1930 to 56% in 1960. There has, therefore, been little increase
in the mean age at marriage of females.
Future Population Estimates
8.        According to the UN population projections of constant fertility
and sharply declining mortality, the population of Indonesia will double
before 1995 and reach 329 million by the year 2001. The rate of growth of
population would be more than 3% in 1986 and 3.7% by the year 2001.
Even if fertility is reduced to half, the popuiation size will still be
around 255 million and the rate of growth of population would remain at
Education
9.        The literates, or those who can read and write in Latin characters,
constituted 42.9% of the population of 10 years and over in 1961. Out of some
15.9 million children of 7-13 years of age, 8.2 million or 54.27% were at
school. Assuming that there will be no moderation of fertility, the number
of children in similar age group is estimated to increase to 29 million by
1986 and 44 million by 2001. Children in the secondary schools (13-18 years)
would numiber around 36 million by year 2001 without a decline in fertility
(Table 7).
1/ The number of births per 1,000 women in the reproductive age groups
(15-44 years).
2/ The average number of females born to a woman during the whole of her
reproductive period.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 10
Urbanization
10.       Less than 15% of the population in Indonesia lives in urban areas.
After World War II, there was a steady migration to the towns, but their over-
all growth rate is estimated to be no greater than the national average; a
lower than average increase in the natural growth rate has been supplemented
by steady in-migration. The population of Djakarta has increased sharply
from 533,000 in 1930 to around 1.8 million in 1955   and is now estimated to
be about 4.2 million. It covers an area of 577 kmn; the 1970 density was
estimated at some 7,300 per km2. Since 1947, migration to Djakarta from
rural areas and small towns has proceeded continuously and since 1961 has
exceeded 100,000 persons annually. With a relatively constant death rate
and steadily rising birth rate, the natural rate of population increase.
rose from about 2% before 1960 to about 3% in 1970. One-half of the popu-
lation is under 20 years of age. The Governor declared Djakarta a closed
city in 1970. The tangible results of this rapid increase are expressed in
rising unemployment public health problems, inadequate public utilities,
and congested housi.,g conditions.
Ethnic Composition
11.       The population comprises a variety of ethnic groups but the majority
are of Malay origin. Diverse languages and dialects, culture, and social
organizations distinguish the groups, the most important being the Javanese.
Muslims comprise 90% of the population,-che remainder being Christians (4%),
Hindus (3%), and Buddhists (3%).



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 10
Table 1
POPULATION TRENDS IN INDONESIA. 1930-70
(In thousands)
Rate of Growth
Java and   Outer               Java and   Outer
End of the Year   Madura   Provinces   Indonesia Madura    Provinces  Indonesia
Census 1930i=     41,718    19,000     60,727                  -
2/
1940 -     48,416    22,060     70,476      1.5        1.5        1.5
19501/     50,456    26,751     77,207       0.4       2.0        0.9
19612/     63,289    34,161     97,450      2.1        2.8        2.1
197032/    77,224    43,875    121,199       2.2       2.9        2.6'
Source: Statistical Pocket Book of Indonesia 1963.
U.N. PFopulation Projections - Medium Variant.
1/ Government of Indonesia Census.
2/ Government of Indone\sia Estimates.
3/  UN Population Projections - Medium Variant.



ANNEX 1
Table 2                       Page 5 of 10
INDONESIA: POPULATION BY PROVINCE AND SEX, 1961
(In thousands)
Province                         Males       Females       Total
Djakarta                         1,481        1,426         2,907
West Java                        8,658         8,957       17,615
Central Java                     8,968        9,440        18,408
Djogjakarta                      1,092        1,149         2,241
East Java                       10.602       11.220         1>822
Total:  Java and Madura       30,801       32,192        62.993
D. I. Atjeh                        822           807        1,629
North Sumatra                    2,514        2,450        4,964
West Sumatra                     1,118         1,201        2,319
Riau                               637          598         1,235
Djambi                             386          358           744
South Sumatra                    2,466        2,382        4,848
Total:  5unatra                7,943        7,796        15,739
West Kalimantan                    802           779        1,581
Central Kalimantan                 251          245          496
South Kalimantan                   726          747         1,473
East Kalimantan                    287           264          551
Total:  Kalimantan             2,066        2,035        4,101
North and Cent:ral Sulawesi      1,015           988        2,003
South and Southeast Sulawesi     2.475        2,601         5,076
Total:  Sulawesi               3,490        3,589         7,079
Bali                               884          899         1,783
West Nusatenggara                   893          914        1,807
East Nusatenggara                  984          983         1,967
Total:  Bali and Nusatenggara  2,761         2,796        5,557
Maluku                             403           387          790
West Irian                         375           383          758
Total                            778           770        1,548
TOTAL                           47,839       49,178        97,017
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 10
Table 3
JAVA AND BALI: PROVINCIAL POPULATION ESTIMATES AND DENSITIES, 1970
Population 1/              2/     Densit!       Percent of
Province            (In millions)     Area Km2        per Km        Population
Djakarta                 4.23            577          7,331             5.5
West Java               20.97         46,300            452             27.7
Central Java           21.36          34,206            624            28.2
Djogjakarta              2.41          3,169            760             3.2
East Java               24.83         47,922            517            32.7
Bali                     2.09          5,561            375              2.7
100.0
Java and Bali           75.89        137,735            550
I/ Government of Indonesia Estimates.
2/ Government of Indonesia Statistical Pocket Book     1963.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 10
Table 4
ESTIMTES OF REGIONAL FERTILITY AND MORTALITY
DIFFERENTIAL IN INDONESIA (1961)
Gross     General
trude     Crude      Rate of        Repro-    Ferti-
gitth     Death      Natural        duction    lity
Region                    R     ate      Increase        Rate      Rate
West Java            49.8      22.5        27.3          3.459     .2130
Central Java        46.8       22.3        24.5          3.161     .2076
Djogjakarta          399       22.3        17,6          2.508     .1681
East JavTa          42.7       22,2        20.5          2.771     .1830
Java                 46.1      22.3        23.8          3.059     .2009
Sumatra              51.6      22.6        29.0           -        .2240
Kalimantan          48.2       22.4        25.8          -         .2089
Sulawesi             49.5      22.5        27.0           -        .2185
Other Islands        49,6      22.5        27.1           -        .2213
Outer Provinces      50.2      22.6        27.6                    .2176
Indonesia           47.6       22.4        25.2         3.1        .2073
Source: Iskandar, S. Somie Monographic Studies on the Population in Indonesia;
University of Indonesia, Djakarta.



ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 10
Table 5
lmjLvIA: AGE-SPECIFIC FERTILITY RATES, 1965-70
(Births per 1,000 of Women)
Age-Specific
ASe                        Fertility Rates
15 - 20 years                  0.119
20 - 24 years                  0.324
25 - 29 years                  0.334
30 - 34 years                  0.257
35 - 39 years                  0.175
40 - 44 years                  0.078
45 - 49 years                  0.022
Source: U.N. Estimates.



ANNEX 1
Table 6                        Page 9 of 10
INDONESIA: POPULATION BY SEX AND AGE, 19611/
(In thousands)
Age Group          Males           Females          Total           %
0  - 4           8,462            8,580          17,042        17.7
5  -  9          7,684            7,639          15,323        15.9
10  - 14          4,319            3,861           8,179         .8.5
15  - 19          3,834            3,874           7,708         8.0
20  - 24          3,452            4,339           7,791         8.1
25  - 34          7,334            8,542          15,876        16.5
35  - 44          5,720            5,363          11,083        11.5
45  - 54          3,559            3,483           7,042         7.3
55  - 64          1,898            1,850           3,748         3.9
65  - 74            796              829           1,625         1.7
75 +                378              407             784         0.8
Unknown               60              57             117         0.1
TOTAL            47,494           48,825          96,319       100.0
1/ These figures do not include West Irian which had a population of
700,000 and which was under Dutch administration at the time.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



ANNOEX1
Page 10 of 10.
Table 7
PROJECTED SCHOOL AGE POPULATION, 1971-2001
Primary                 Secondary
Year                7-12 Years                13-18 Years
1971                  20,019                   18,035
1976                  22,399                   19,506
1981                  25,276                   21,857
1986                  28,843                   24,679
1991                  32,801                   28,197
1996                  37,523                   32,108
2001                  43,714                   36,825
Source: Iskandar, S. Some Monographic Studies on
Population in Indonesia, Djakarta.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
SELECTED ECONOMIC TRENDS
Labor Force
1.        No reliable recent estimates of labor force or of employment are
available for Indonesia. The census of 1961 provided an estimate of the
incidence of unemployment. According to the definition used, unemployment
included that part of the population 10 years and over who were unemployed
for more than 2 months during the period of 6 months preceding the enumera-
tion. For the country as a whole, the unemployment rate was 5.4% -- 7%
for females and 4.8% for males.   The total labor force in 1961 was estimated
at 34.5 million, of which 1.9 million were supposed to be unemployed. This,
however, does not reflect the extent of vast underemployment in the rural
areas. The following table indicate the size of the labor force in rural
and urban areas:
Table 1
INDONESIA:  LABOR FORCE IN RURAL AND URBAN AREAS, 1961
(In millions)
Population  10 Years
and Over                     Labor Force
Area           Male           Female        Male          Female        Total
Rural          26.4            27.6         21.5            8.3          29.8
Urban           5.0             5.0          3.5            1.2           4.7
TOTAL          31.4            32.6         25.0            9.5          34.5
2.        The results of the census in 1961 do not provide data from which
estimates of underemployment can be made.   The labor force sample survey in
Java and Madura in 1950 collected information on the number of days in a year
and the number of hours per day worked by the agricultural labor force. The
total number of man-hours efiectively used in agricultural production per
year was estimated at 22.353 million(i.e., the sum of 15.462 million man-hours
in the peak season, and 6.891 million man-hours in the slack season). Assum-
ing a total of 60 days off work per year (the total of Sundays and 8 national/
religious holidays), and an average work day of 7 hours, the total potential
man-hours per year in Java should be 33,604 million man-hours. The under-
employment rate per year in agriculture on this basis is estimated at 33.5%, or
about one-third of the total labor force.
3.        On the basis of these observations, it can be estimated that no less
than 10 million out of 30 millior, persons in the labor force in rural areas were
underemployed in 1961. They could rather be considered as unemployed, for during
the slack season those who are working do not find work for more than 4 hours.
Even in the peak season the maximum number of hours worked is only six.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Table 2
Mean Number of
Hours Worked             Mean Number of
Season                   Per Day                  Days Worked
Peak                        6.16                      154
Slack                       3.8                       162
4.        The phenomenon of underemployment also exists in the urban areas of
Java. On the basis of a survey made in 1958, it has been estimated that under-
employed persons -- those aged 12 years and over, who are working for less than
30 hours per week but eager to work longer and seeking additional employment --
numbered 76,000 in urban areas.   The underemployment rate in the urban areas was,
therefore, estimated at 1.86% for males, 4.7% for females,.and 2.7% for both sexes.
5.        The above analysis indicates that around 1961 a minimum of 2 million
workers were reported to be unemployed and more than 10 million did not have
adequate employment. 1/
6.        During 1961-71, the employment situation is unlikely to have improved
substantially because of the slow growth of the economy, which could not have
brought about any structural change.
7.        Estimates of labor force without fertility control are also made by
Iskandar. Assuming the same ratio of the rural labor force to total as
obtained from the 1961 census, the estimates for 1971 are as follows:
Table 3
Working Age Population
15 - 64 Years                     Labor Force
Area           Male       Female      Total      Male       Female     Total
Rural          27.1         28.5      55.6       27.0        10.5      37.5
Urban           5.2          5.2      10.4        4.4         1.5       5.9
TOTAL          32.3        33.7       66.0       31.4        12.0      43.4
Increase in Labor Force, 1961-71
Male           Female          Total
Rural                5.5              2.2           7.7
Urban                0.9              0.3           1.2
TOTAL                6.4              2.5           8.9
8.        According to the above table, the addition to the labor force
during 1961-71 has been about 8 million in the rural areas and 1 million in
urban areas. Job opportunities would have mainly reduced the existing un-
employment and the addition of 9 millioa p6rsons w'ould have substantially
added to unemployment. The incidence of unemployment may, therefore, be as
1!  The analysis is based on estimat'e given in Iskandar, S. Some Monographic
Studies on Population in Indonesia.      .



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
large as one-fourth of the labor force. The elimination of unemployment of
this magnitude without considering underemployment is extremely difficult.
Per Capita Income and Consumption
9.        The gross domestic product of Indonesia was estimated at Rp 347.5
billion in 1951. Population in that year was estimated at 77.2 million. The
per capita GDP was only U.So$45 in that year. The annual increase in GDP has
been negligible over the two decades starting in 1951.
10.       More than half the increase in GDP at constant prices was offset by
the more than 2% per annum growth rate of population during 1951-60. In
1961-67, a negligible incre'se of 0.2 was recorded in the per capita income
as almost all the increase in GDP at 2.6% was eliminated by population growth
of 2.4%.  In 1967, there was an actual decline in the per capita income by
1.5%. Since 1968, the growth rate of GDP has been substantial. It, however,
-fluctuated as in 1969 the growth rate was lower than in the earlier years.
In 1970, it regained and reached a pea'k. The data are summarized in the
following table:
Table 4
Percentage Increase per Annum
Year                 Population          Total GDP           Per Capita GDP
1951-60                2.1                  3.8                   1.7
1961-67                2.4                  2.6                   0.1
1967                    2.5                 1.0                  -1.5
1968                   2.5                  6.9                   4.3
1969                   2.5                  5.1                   2.5
1970                   2.5                  7.9                   5.3
11.       Calorie-intake per capita per day was estimated at 1,980 in 1960.
This, of course, is below acceptable standards. There was little improvement
in the nutritional standards in Indonesia during the sixties. The per capita
food availability declined by 1.17% during 1961-67 and 2.4% during 1967. An
increase of 3.8% was recorded in 1968. Again a decline of 0.3% was experienced
in 1969. Until recently, most of the increase in food production was absorbed
by the accelerating growth rate of population as shown in the following table:
Table 5
INCREASE IN AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
(Percent per annum)
Year           Total           Food           Population     Food Capita
1961-67         1,6            1.2               2.4            -1.1
1967            1.6             -                2.5            -2.4
1968            4.8            6.4               2.5             3.8
1969            3.1            2.3               2.6            -0.3



I N D O N E S I A
CENTRAL ORGANMZA-ION OF THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING BOARD
THE PRESIDENT
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR
GUIDANCE OF FAMILY PLANNING
Minister of Peoples Welfarz (Chairman)
Minister of Health (Vice-Chairman)               STATE MINISTER
Minister of Internal Affairs                   FOR PEOPLES WELFARE
Minister of Finance
Minister of Information
Minister of Social Affairs       .
Minister of Education and Culture                                                        N      ACHA RMANL FAMILY
Minister of Armed Forces                         OF THE N F PCB                         PLANNING ADVISORY
Chairman of Bappenas
Chairman of I P PA
REPRESENTATIVES OF           CHIEFS OF
SECRETARY                                       NATIONAL PRIVATE       RELATED GOVERNMENT
ORGANIZATIONS             DEPARTMENTS
.DEPUTY CHAIRMAN I                                                 DEPUTY CHAIRMAN 11
INFORMATION AND        EDUCATION AND          RESEARCH AND         MEDICAL SERVICES        SUPPLY AND          R   EPORTING AND
MOTIVATION BUREAU      TRAINING BUREAU     EVALUATION BUREAU             BUREAU           LOGISTICS BUREAU     BDOCUENTATION
z
[ PROVINCIAL NF PCB                                                         Z
IBRD-5590(3R)



I N                                                        I
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL STRUCTURE OF THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING BOARD
Provincial Level
. PROVI NCIA L GOVERNOR
PROVINCIAL                                        CHAIRMAN
ADVISORY CMOUNCIL             EInspector of HDlth,CExE                              OjR                 RN    A
-wI
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
SECRETARY
MEDICALTSERVICETINNORMATION SECTIONI
SECTIONATIO SETIO
INFORMATION DIVISION        |  EDUCATION IVISION                     MEDICAL SERVICE                 RECORDING DIVISiON
. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - =- - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- - - ,- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kabupaten LevelI
B UPATI
|- - L SECRETARIAT
MEIA      SERIC                      TINX
-                                               I BRD-5588(3R)



INDONESIA
CENTRAL ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTER OF HEALTH
,|SECRETARY GNEA
BUREAU 1 - Statistics and Evaluation
BUREAU 2 - Organization and Construction
BUREAU 3 - Personnel
BUREAU 4 - Logistics
BUREAU 5 - Education
BUREAU 6 - Law and Legislation
BUREAU 7 - Special Affairs
(Foreign Relations)
DIRECTOR GENERAL                                          DIRECTOR GENERAL                                          DIRECTOR GENERAL
Health Promotion and Medical Care                           Communicable Disease Control                                      Pharmacy
DIRECTORATE OF.MEDICINE                                DIRECTORATE OF CONTROL,ERADICATION                           DIRECTORATE OF INVESTIGATION
DIRECTORATE OF MENTAL HEALTH                             AND IMMUNIZATION                                              ANG RESEARCH
DIRECTORATE OF DENTAL HEALTH                           DIRECTORATE OF QUARANTINE                                    DIRECTORATE OF PRODUCTION
DIRECTORATE OF NUTRITION                               DIRECTORATE OF HYGIENE                                       DIRECTORATE OF DISTRIBUTION
DIRECTORATE OF REHABILITATION                            AND SANITATION
AND HEALTH PROMOTION                                 DIRECTORATE OF LABORATORY SERVICE
DIRECTORATE OF MCH AND
FAMILY PLANNING
UNDER FIVE CLINICS
HEALTH CENTERS
SOCIAL OBSTETRICS                                                                                                                               >
FAMILY PLANNING.                                                                                                                                Z
z
m
x
IBRD-5589(3R) un



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH STRUCTURE
GOENR                     EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR              INSPECTOR OF HEALTH
( Health Cabinet Member )
COMM()N ICAB LE
DISEASES CONTROL
PHARMACY
HEALTH PROMOTiON
Technical Responsibility               AND FAMILY PLANNING
Admi nistrative ResponsibilIi ty                                           H EA LTH PROMOTIO0N
BUAI                              CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER      --AND FAMILY PLANNING
(KabupateXn Level)                                    ( MCH )
MEDICAL CARE
. ~COMMUNI CABLE
DISEASE CONTROL
KABUk ATEN    |     rM C H C ENTERS
|  HOSPITAL              (K7Ad)an)
!I
I rI'-VE M CH CENTERS
I( Ketiamatan Level)
(B)
Iz
I>
SATELLITE CLINlICS                .Zx
(KbCaenLve)(MH
I BRD-5586 (3R) I
I.



INDONESIA                                   ANNEX 7
INDONESIAN PLANNED PARENTHOOD ASSOCIATION
NATIONAL CONGRESS
National Level                  L
MANAGING BOARD
SECRETARY GENERAL
DEPUTY
SECRETARY GENERAL
STAFF OF THE
SECRETARY GENERAL
7T7
BUREAU FOR         BUREAU               BUREAU            RESEARCH         NATIONAL
PROPGRAM        FOR TRAINI G           NFORMATION     AND EVALUATION   TRAINING CENTER
DEVELOPMENT       FO  RIIG       I   ADMOTIVATION          BUREAUL
ProvinciaI Level  -
PLENARY BOARD OF THE
PROVINCIAL CHAPTER
MANAGING BOARD
OF THE PROVINCIAL
CHAPTER
SECRETARY OF THE
PROVINCIAL CHAPTER
SECRETARY'S STAFF
1-7
OTHER          INFORMATION                             PROVINCIAl
POSSIBLE PROJECTS  AND MOTIVATION        MODEL CLINIC    TRAINING CENTER
* *- L        - J - -                                        I -  I - - - - -
Local Level                        I
BOARD MEMBER  1
OF THE LOCAL BRANCH
SECRETARY
INFORMAT,ON             FIELD PRACTICE
AND MOTIVATION             CLINIC
IBRD-5587(4R)



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
REORGANIZATION OF THE NFPCB
1.        The NFPCB will. be reorganized substantially on the following
lines:
a.   The NFPCB will be res.ponsible for:
i.   advice on the formulation of national family planning
policies;
ii.   formulation of a national family planning program which
reflects the policies approved by the Borrower;
iii.   coordination anid supervision of the imiplementation of the
national program; ancd
iv.   coordination and supervision of all assistance for family
planning from foreign and domestic sources includling
externally financed projects included therein.
b.   The 1FPCB will be headed by a Chairman who, in performing hls tasks,
will be directly responsible to the President of Indonesia. The
Chairman will be advised and assisted by the National Family Plan-
ning Consultative Comittee comprised oL the Secretaries General of
the Ministries involved in the implementation of the national pro-
gram and other individuals called upon ay the Chairman.
c.   The NFPCB will have three Deputy Chairmen -- Deputy I will be
responsible to the Chaimr.aa for overall program planring and bud-
geting, supervision of program implementation, logistrics, imple-
mentatiorn of special projects, and direction of the PIU. He will
also act on behalf of the Chair-me-n duiring the latter's absence.
Deputy II will be responsible to the Chair;man for the techni.cal
direction and coordination during irmplementation of tuhat part of
the national program dealing with .nformation and motivation,
education and trainirng, and mrrif->a- senrices. Deputy III will be
responsible to the Chairman for technical direction and coordina-
tion of the part dealing witwh evaluation and research, and
reporting and recording. The Chairman will also be assisted
by an administrative secretary who rill be responsible for the
administration of headquarters facilities anAd staff.
d.   The NFPCB will be provided with adequlate supporting staff for
the execution of its tasks, including specifically staiff for:
i.   evaluation and research;
ii.   the field postpartum prograrm; and
iii.   information and communications.
2.        A diagram outlining the proposed, new st.ructure is attached to this
amnex.
3.        A team of three advisers wrill be attached tio the central NFPCB
for 2 years to strengthen its senior nmanagement capability. The proposed



ANNEX
Page 2 of 4
terms of reference for the adviser in family planing communications are
in para 5 of Annex 29. The proposed terms of reference for the advisers
in program management and family planning training are given below:
a.   Adviser in Program Management
The function of the adviser in program management would be to
assist the Chairman of the NFPCB in the formulation and execution
of policies designed to develop the national family planning
program. The specific responsibilities of the program adviser
would include providing guidance on:
i.   the development of effective relationships in program plan-
ning and execution between the NFPCB and the program's
implementing units, particularly the Ministry of Health;
ii.   the provision of family planning services through the
facilitJ.1es, particularly thru maternal and child health
services, operated by the implementing units;
iii.   the use of service data, survey and research results,
program evaluation data and the results of an effective
supervisory system in expanding or modifying the use of
human and financial resources available for the develop-
ment of the national program;
iv.   the need to coordinate effectively all services of non-
Indonesian assistance to achieve the national program's
objectives;
v.   the aippropriate use of new family planniing techniques and
methods in the development of the national program; and
vi.   the most effective balance, consistent with local circums-
tances, between the provision of services and the stimula-
tion of demand for family planning required to promote
the national program's objectives.
b.   Adviser in Family Planning Training
The functions of the training adviser would be to provide guidance
to the Chairman of the NFPCB on the development of a program to
meet the training needs of the National Family Planning Program.
In this regard, he will mnake the fullest use of all expertise
available i.n this field in the country as well as from interna-
tional agencies. The specific responsibilities of the training
adviser would include guidance on:
i.   development of an overall training policy in family planning;
ii.   development of a training strategy and train  g system to
meet t]ie training needs of the family planniaslg program;



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
iii.   preparation, within the strategy, of an operational plan,
including development of curricula based on expected job-
functions for training of all categories of personnel
involved in the implementation of the National Family
Planning Program;
iv.   development of a system for coordination of all agencies
implementing the training programs;
V. working with governmental and non-governmental agencies to
help in integrating family planning as a part of pre-service
training, medical and nursing education, etc.;
vi.   development of training evaluation and feed-back for ensuring
the relevance of specific training activities to meet program
needs;
vii.   to stimulate needed research and innovative techiiques in
training with particular reference to training methods, train-
ing systems, etc.; and
viii.   development of programs for training of trainers.



INDONESIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF THE NFPCB'S CENTRAL OFFICE
PRESIDENT
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR                                                                                                                      J
GUIDANCE OF
FAMILY PLANNING
MINISTER OF PEROPLE'S WELFARE
CHAIRMAN
NATIONAL IMPLEMENTATION
COORDINATION                                               I        SECRETARIAT
COMMITTEE
IDEPUTY CHAIRMAN iI                         DEPUTY CHAIRMAN I                                  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN 11
(Research and                               (Program                                            (Program
Evaluation)                                Management)                                        Development)
RESEARCH      REPORTING      PR              SPEC                                     INBoRMATION     E              MEDICAL
&              &          PROGRAMG      SPECIA
EVALUATION     RECORDING      PLANNIGAPROECTSTOGISTCSNSUERVISONCES
0Z0
0
World Bank-6563



AMEX 9
Page 1 of 5
FAMLY PLANNING FIELD WORKER PROGRAM
1.        The family planning field worker program was developed
because the spread of family planning information through mass media
was insufficient, and there was need for a more personal approach.
The field workers were to be full-time nonmedical personnel who would
be available to spread family planing knowledge in the commumity and,
if necessary, remove resistAnce to the adoption of family planning and
contraception. Ths program was started in October 1970, and until
April 1971, it was organized by the Indonesian Planned Parenthood
Association (IPPA); since then, the NFPCB has assumed responsibility.
2.        The family planning field worker program comprises the
selection and training of field workers, group leaders, supervisors, and
inspectors.  Field workers should have a junior high school education
and be between 26 and 45 years old. They receive 3 weeks training and
both PTCs and STCs have been used for this purpose. Field workers are-
expected to recruit from 8 to 10 acceptors monthly. At present, they are
unofficially attached to the clinics but they are administratively
independent, being paid and directed from the central NFPCB headquarters.
Some 400 field workers are employed by the NFPCB at present, together with
a director and associated staff at central level. The field workers are
concentrated in the provinces of Djakarta, West Java, Central Java, and
Bali.
3.        Tbe present disposition of field worker program staff is:
Province                                        Field Workers
Djakarta "assigned to military clinics)               48
West Java - Bandung                                   89
Central Java - Semarang                               76
Central Java - Karanganjan                            35
Djogjakarta                                           53
Bali                                                  49
East Java (assigned to Surabaja municipality)         35
TOTAL                                               3
The program targets by April, 1971, were to re-ruit 767 field workers, 85
group leaders, 15 supervisors, and 6 inspectors. The current NFPCB budget
makes provision for Rp 147 million (U.S. $354,000) covering the recruitment
and placement of about 2,500 field workers, 250 group leaders, other
supervisory staff, and equipment for the six p-ovinces in Java and Bali.
The program is lagging behind its implementat-on schedule.
4.        This is the resalt of the current coiused position of the field
worker program which is still nebulous. Th'e field workers trained in East
Java, for example, are paid and adminis'-ered by the Surabaja municipality
health services; their functional relationship, if any, to the NFPCB



ANEX 9
Page 2 of 5
scheme is not clear.  The NFRPCB has est  is1..ed a committee to make recom-
mendations to the chairman    the best -.:-ay in which to implement the field
worker project. Amo_ng- the principal difficulties fac-ng the project are:
a.   The fact that the NFPOB, a coordinatJ'rg agency, is trying to
implement the project. Thus far, no decision has been r- ched
on the program's sta.us or vcx_c.. agency or ministry will be
responsible for imnplementatiDn.
b.   There is resistance, Darticularly at peripheral service levels,
to the idea of fu1ll-time non-medical family planning.field workers.
This is partly due to inadequate comnunication within the EFPCB
organization so that even the nebulous instructions of the center
have not ieen appreciated at lc--er levels.  The field workers are
also seen as a body of workers in direct competition with the
paramedical staff of MCH/FP centers for the small rewards avail-
able for successful motivators. This situation is aggravated by
the fact that. particularly at peripheral levels, family planning
is seen as the exclusive preserve of the health services.
C.   The program has not been organized in a systematic way so that
some field workers are using concepts and work patterns which
differ from those laid down centrally. There is considerable
confusion regarding the payment of field workers salaries.
Even for the small number of field workers in the field, the
supplies of equipment and bicycles have not been effectively
distributed.
d.   Salaries (Rp 2,500 per month per field worker) are inadequate,
and field workers cannot be expected to work full-time. The
field worker's job is regarded as complementary to other occu-
pations; this is taken to justify the recruitment of paramedical
staff as field workers.
e.   Although there is a curriculum for field worker training, it is
not adequate because basic job functions hav not been fully
developed and incorporated in the curriculum. There are dif-
ficulties in training because some teachers do not have the
essential practical experience required in field worker training.
It is apparent that there is, in any case, little uniformity in
training.
f.   With the lack of overall control, field workers are not assigned
according to any predetermined plan. After training, they have
no contracts and can leave their job easily with a consequent
waste of training resources. There is little uniformity in the
selection procedures. In Bali, nearly all the field workers who
have been recruited are already employed as midwives and nurses,
etc. The provision of supervisory staff, i.e., group leaders, etc.,
has not kept pace with even the slow recruitment of field workers,
and there is, in consequence, a serious lack of guidance and



AMEX 9
Page 3 of 5
supervision which is critical to the success of such a new pro-
gram. There is, in most cases, no leadership at the local level.
Supervisors and group leaders are, in most instances, themselves
new to family planning and also require close guidance.
5.        The NFPCB committee needs, therefore, to take urgent action in
proposing recommendations which should be directed toward:
a.   systematic planning and organizatioyi;
b.   preparation of budget provision which will be based on the national
family planning program targets. They are not now met by the
general allocation of three field workers to a "complete clinic"
which produces too intensive a ratio of 1:4,500 persons;
c.   an early decision on the agency responsible for implementatian;
d.   early resolution of administrative problems of salary and working
conditions, including effective contracts;
e.   improving salaries for field workers and supervisory staff;   and
f.   strengthening the supervisory structure.
6.        To this end, the following recommendations are made:
a.   Provide field workers at a general ratio of 1:10,000 persons which
will ensure a good motivational program. They should be paid an
effective salary of Rp 3,S500 per month.
b.   The Ministry of Health, with provincial health authorities, must
be closely associated.with field worker project implementation
because of their extensive administrative network and major respon-
sibility for the delivery of family planning services.
c.   The basic functions of the field workers should be clearly and
specifically described and followed uniformly by all implementing
units. These functions should include identification of eligible
couples; family and community-centered family planning education;
collaboration with the MCH/FP clinic personnel in providing MCH/FP
services; distribution of conventional contraceptives themselves,
as well as through nonmedical depot holders like village leaders;
and responsibility for primary-level reporting and recording
along with the MCH/FP clinic personnel; etc.
d.   Priority must be given to train the field workers and group leaders
in local subtraining centers based on their specific job functions.
Their training must be specifically oriented to prepare these
workers to effectively carry out their job functions and should not
be merely informational in nature. If efficiently used, present
training facilities are adequate for training the 1971-72 recruitment
targets. The family planning training component of the project
develops an adequate training capability for subsequent years.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
e.   There must be adequate supervisory guidance of the field workers
and an effective administrative, as well as supervisory, structure.
These can be assured by:
i.   appointing one group leader to every five field workers, who
would work directly under his control and supervision. Group
leaders would be attached to the district level MCH/FP center.
ii.   appointing one full-time assistant supervisor to the NFPCB
officer at regency level, who would be responsible for super-
vising and giving technical guidance to the group leaders.
iii.   appointing an effective unit attached to the provincial office
of the Inspector of Health to work with the Director of Health
Promotion and Family Planing. It would consist of 1 super-
visor, 1 assistant supervisor, and 3 supporting administrative
staff. For the purposes of DIP (budget authority), the
director would be the project officer.
iv.   appointing a coordinator to the provincial NFPCB offices to
supervise all aspects of the family planning field worker pro-
ject for the NFPCB and coordinate staff activities between the
various agencies towham they have administrative and program
responsibilities.
v.   appointing an effective unit at central NFPCB to coordinate all
activities, which should consist of 1 director (of the rank of
bureau chief), 2 senior coordinators to provide immediate super-
vision of activity at provincial level, as well as supporting
staff comprising 1 accountant, 1 clerk, and 1 typist.
7.        In summary, the field worker program should aim to have the
following staff in position in the next few years:
Staff               1972-73   1973-7h   197h-75   197$-76   1976-77   Total
Field Worker2l       1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,000     7,000
Group Leader-/         300       300       300       300       200     1,h00
Assistant Supervisor    40        40        35        -         -        115
Provincial Unit Staff    6       -         -          -         -          6
Provincial Coordinator   6       -         -         -          -          6
Central Unit Staff       1                 -                    -          1
Driver                   2        32        30        30         35      129
1/   Based on a ratio of 1:10,000 and a Java/Bali population of 80 million,
and allowing for 1,000 trained field workers before the project starts.
2/   Based on a ratio of 1:5 field workers, and allowing for 200 trained
group leaders before the project starts.



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5.
8.        The costs of this component, excluding contingencies, are
estimated as follows:
Item              197273      1973-74  1974-75     197 -76     1976-77     Total
U.S.$     U.S.$     U.S.$;       UlS-        U.S.$      U.S.$
Salariesl/        219,000    430,000   639,000     838,000     971,000  3,097,000
2/        26,000   108,000    185,000     260,000     166,000    7h5,000
Transport=          600      1800      1500        20-0         6,0        4,o
Mainte mnce        10,000     20,000    38,000         000      76,000    2002000
TOTAL             255,000    558,000   862,000   1,15A,000   1,213,000  4,042,000
l/   Based on: 7,000   field workers at Rp 3,500 per month
1,1400  group leaders at Rp 5,000 per month
115 assistant supervisors at Rp 10,000 per month
6 provincial units staff, each comprising:
1 supervisor at Rp 15,000 per month
1 assistant supervisor
3 clerical staff
6 provincial coordinators at Rp 15,000 per month
1 central unit staff comprising:
1 director at Rp 20,000 per month
2 senior coordinators at Rp 15,000 per month
administrative staff
129 drivers.
2/   Comprises:   129  cars at U.S. $2,000 each
1,600  120-cc motorcycles at U.S. $220 each
4,500 bicycles at U.S. $30 each.



ANNEX 10
PRESENT STAFING PATERN OF TYPICAL HEALTH CENTER
AT DISTRICT LEVEL IN EAST JAVA
1    Doctor
1    Health Controller
1    Midwife
1    Nurse
2-3   Assistant Nurses
1    Assistant to the Midwife
1    Assistant Sanitarian
1    Cleric
1    Laboratory Technician
Auxdliary Staff includesl
Malaria Workers (home visiting for mnear testing)
Smallpox Vaccinator
TCPS Worker (home visiting for yaws examinations)
Voluntary Village Workers (DKDs)
1/ In a few cernters, the staff includes a dentist and a
dental nurse.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 7
HEALTH SERVICES AND FACILITIES IN EAST JAVA, BALI, AND DJAKARTA
1.        This annex describes the structure and services of provincial health
authorities by reference to the provinces of Eastl Java, Bali, and Djakarta.
2.        The execution of health planning is primarily the responsibility of
the provincial health departments. Because provinces and regencies in large
part fund their own services, they have considerable autonomy.  In each
province, the Inspector of Health is responsible to the Governor. Under the
Inspector, maternal and child health, and family planning services are the
responsibility of a directorate. Administration iof health services, including
maternal and child health, and family planning, progresses from the Ministry
in Djakarta through the health department in each province down to regency,
district, sub-district, and village levels.
East Java
Village Level
3.        In any one of the 8,044 rural villages i.n East Java, medical facili-
ties are rudimentary. The average village has a population of some 2,800
persons. Some, but not all, have a simple polyclinic, perhaps associated
with a simple tQype of MCH center, usually built by the community and staffed
by a male nurse (mantri).  The polycinics provide first aid, aim at an early
diagnosis of communicable disease, and are visited on occasion by a doctor and
also by a midwife. Health services are not free; patients pay a fee of about
Rp 10 (U.S. $0.026) used to buy medicines and stat:ionery, etc.;  contraceptives
are provided free of charge.
4.        The majority of village deliveries are conducted at home by the
traditional midwife (dukun).  In cooperation with UNICEF, a major effort has
been made to provide training in delivery procedures by government midwives;
this takes up half a day weekly for 5 months. In recognition of this training,
the dukun is provided with a free delivery kit, thei components of which are
renewed each time she reports a delivery to the nearest government midwife.
The provincial authorities estimate that there are over 14,000 dukuns in East
Java, 6,758 of whom had been trained by August 1970. In addition to attending
a delivery, the dukun assists in cooking,washing, and general h(ousehold duties
for about 40 days after delivery and is, therefore, an important member of the
community.
Sub-District and District Levels
5.        Villages are grouped for both civil and health administration into
sub-districts. In East Java, there are 534 sub-districts, of which 507 are in
rural areas and have a typical population of some 4,i,000 persons. At this
level, there is an MCH/polyclinic center with a trai..ned government midwife
in charge. For health purposes, about five sub-dis1tricts are grouped into a
district. At district headquarters, a doctor coordinates activities in the



ANM,X 1 1
Page 2 of 7
sub-divisions from one of the five health centers.  Some sub-divisions have
more than one MCH center and (less often) have a government doctor.   There
are 139 districts (six in urban areas) in East 2Java, grouped into 37 regencies.
A typical regency has an area of some 1,700 km , and a population of about
800,000;  for health purposes, it is the main provincial sub-unit.   It has a
chief medical officer with primarily administrative functions, usually a
100-bed hospital (including about 10 maternity beds) with a doctor in charge,
and a third physician responsible for communicable disease control. Each
regency has a supervisory midwife, who also has midwifery duties.
6.        MCH facilities in East Java are detailed in Table 1. Of the 929
government centers, 92% are in rural areas; of 138 private centers, 59% are
in rural areas. Taking only government centers, each serves about 25,600
persons. They are not fully staffed. Of the 750 midwives reported by the
provincial authorities 494 are attached to rural government MCH centers -
a ratio of one to 44,000 people.
Municipal Areas
7.        There are eight municipalities in East Java, subdivided into sub-
districts and smaller municipal units.  Surabaja, the provincial capital, has
a population of about 2.1 million and has 16 sub-divisions. The municipalities
are also the headquarters of administratively distinct but contiguous rural
sub-districts. Health services are provided on a more intensive basis than in
rural areas and there is an evident trend towards the hospitalization of
obstetrical cases. The basic health pattern is similar but there are sub-
stantial numbers of additioni. .'hospitals and health centers established by
private agencies.
Bali
8.        The health service structure in Bali is similar to that of East Java
but, as Table 2 shows, there is a more complete coverage. Bali is divided
into eight regencies and 50 sub-districts; there are no districts or municipa-
lities. There is one government MCH center for 10,500 people. Not all the
centers are staffed, but there is one trained midwife for 12,500 people.
Twenty-one MCH centers also have maternity facilities, but underut.>Xization is
evident in the low utilization rate of 17.4 deliveries per bed during 1970.1/
Djakarta
9.        Djakarta has provincial status and is divided into five municipa-
lities, each subdivided into a total of 27 sub-districts. In each municipality,
thexn is a general health center with a doctor in charge of health admiinistra-
tion for the area., Each sub-district has a smaller center supplemented with
satellite MCH centers - 77 in all - run by private agencies, the Armed Forces,
and the university medical school. Djakarta has 16 general hospitals, one
maternity hospital, and 86 maternity clinics (see Table 3).   Government estimates
place the total nunber of deliveries in Djakarta between 160,000 and 180,000,
annually. In 1969, some 80,000 (or 50%) deliveries were reported from mate;rnity
facilities; a further 40%uwe domiciliary deliveries attended by a doctor,
1/   Sixty deliveries per bed per annum is an acceptable rate.



ANNEX 11
A            Page 3 of 7
midwife, or dukun. At the end of 1970, there were 2,060 maternity beds in
Djakarta. In 1970, the average number of deliveries per bed was 38. The
detailed pattern of bed utilization is not available for 1970, but is similar
to that of the previous year, which is shown in Table 3. This overall
utilization rate conceals differernces associated with types of facility, agency,
and location in Djakarta. Public maternity facilities are generally over-
crowded, many with more than 80 deliveries per bed annually, whereas private
facilities are mostly underutilized.



ANNEX 11
Table 1                        Page 4 of 7
EAST JAVA: MCH FACILITIES
MCH Centers        Doctors        Midwives    Sub--Dis-Populatic-
RegenC     Govt. PriVate   Govt. Private   Govt. Private    trict   (1968)
URIBAN
Surabaja    25       35       9       11     14       16      16    2,124,343
Modjokerto   4         3      3        3      4        3       1       60,327
Madiun       9         3      2        -      7        3       1      153,904
Kediri      10         -      -        -      4        -       3      181,380
Blitar       6        -       1        -      3        -       1       73,291
Malang       5        10      1        7      5       17       3      433,619
Probolinggo  5        1       -        -      5                1       80,409
Pasuruan     3        4      1         3      1        -       1    -     6-
Subtotal   67       56      17       24     43       39      27    3,181,919
RU-RAL
Surabaja    18        3      4         2      2       10      19      596,639
Sidoardjo   19       10       3        5     18        6      18      626,911
Modjokerto   63        -      4        -     18        -      17      451,466
Djainbang   27       10       4        1     17        9      17      76:2,357
Bodjonegoro 41        2      4         -      9        1      20      765,875
Tuban      I40-       1       5        1     14        1      19      740,332
Lamangan    14        -       1        -     10        -      22      848,678
Maldiun     52         -      4        -     26        -      13      560,507
Ngawi       18        2       -        -     13        1      13      601,180
Magetan     16         1      -        -     13        1      13      736,729
PoInorogo   18        6       -        1     18        6      19      719,149
Pat:jitan   28        -      3         -     12        -      12      453,231
Kediri      35        1       7        -     18        1      16    1,046,225
Bli-tar     40        -       6        -     18        -      i7      897,033
Tulungagung 19        -      4         -     16        -      19      699,934
Tre.nggalek  24       -       2        -     15        -      13      301,376
Nga.ndjuk   26        -       -        -     17        -      20      708,947
Djember      34      15      14        3     48        8      25    1,781,926
Banjuwangi  37       13       6        1     19        -      14    1,203,949
Bon!doworo  32        3       -        -     19        2      16      513,742
Panarukan   20        6       -        -     13        -      14      518,546
Malang      45         3      7        3     33        3      29    1,620,248
Luiradjang  14        2       -        -     14        2      13      733,392
Probolinggo 27        -       6        -     17        -      24      677,466
Pasuruan    26        2       7        2     22        2      23      861,1613
Bangkalan   29        -       5        -     16        -      18      593,320
Sampang     15        2       -        -     11        -      12      505,404
Pamekasan   13        -       -        -     12        -      11      421,375
Sumenap     22        -      3         -     16        -      21      727 843
Subtotal  862       82      99       19    494       53     507   21,675.,393
TOTAL      929      138     116       43    537       92     534   24,857,312



ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 7
Table 2
BALI: MCH FACILITIES
Popu-                                     Assistant
Sub-Dis- Vil-     lation   MCH Centers     Midwives        Midwives
Regencies     tricts  lages   (1970)   G    M     P    G    M    P    G     M    P
Badung           6      51   385,086   43    5    6    52   7    6     2
Djembran        4       48   165,196    9    -    3    11   -    3     -
Bululeng         9     151   394,278   23    1    5    20   1    1     2    -    1
Gianjar          7      51   267,700   22    1    1    16   -    1     -    -    -
Bangli          4       64   135,708   15    -    -    10   -    -     1    - I
Kelungkung       4      55   135,175   24    -    -    15   -    -     -
Tabanan          8      95   324,840   38    -    3    27   -    2     2    -    -
Karangasem       8      43   260,357   23    -    -    14   -    -     -    -    -
TOTAL           50     558 2,068,340  197    7   18   165   8   13     7    -    1
G = Government
M = Military
P = Private



ANNEX 11
Table 3                        Page 6 of 7
DJAKARTA: MATERNITY FACILITIES
AVERAGE DELIVERIES FOR BED BY AREA AND BY TYPE OF CLINIC
1968 AND 1969
1968                          1969
Average                       Average
Number                        Number
Deli-                         Deli-
Mater-       veries           Mater-       veries
Hosipi- nity  Deli-  Per Bed  Hospi- nity  Deli-  Per Bed
Area     Type of Hospital   tals   Beds  veries Per Year tals    Beds  veries Per Year
Central  Central Hospital,    1    136    2,696     20     1     136    2,491    18
Djakarta Provincial Govt.
General Hospital,    3    167    7,138     43    .3    155     6,636    43
Private
General Hospital,    1     94    3,111     33     2    121     5,116    42
Army
Maternity Hospital,
Private              1    133    5,919     45     1    138     6.216    45
Subtotal                      6    530   18,864     36     7     550   20,459    37
East     General Hospital,    1     34      590     17     1      34      686    20
Djakarta Central Govt.
General Hospital,
Army                 1     20      587     29     2     40       506    13
Subtotal                      2     54    1,177     22     3      74    1,192    16
West     General Hospital,    2     39    1,170     30      2     32      887    28
Diakarta Private
North    General Hospital,    1     50    4,253     85      1     49    4,240    87
Djakarta Municipal Govt.
General Hospital,    1     12      229     19     1     15       178    12
Central Govt.
General Hospital,
Army                 -                            1     20       492    25
Subtotal                      2     62    4,482     72     3      84    4,910    58
South    General Hospital,
Djakarta Private              2     73      513      7      2     75      868    12
TOTAL                       .14    758   26,206     35    17     815   28,316    35
Source: Djakarta Metropolitan Health Department.



ANNEX 11
Table 3                        Page 7 of 7.
-2-
DJAKARTA: MATERNITY FACILITIES
AVERAGE DELIVERIES FOR BED BY AREA AND BY TYPE O.F CLINIC
1968 AND 1969
1968                          1969
Average                        Average
Number                         Number
Deli-                          Deli-
Mater-        veries           Mater-        veries
Cli-  nity   Deli-  Per Bed    Cli-  nity   Deli-  Per Bed
Area      Type of Clinic    nics  Beds    veries Per Year  nics  Beds   veries Per Year
Central   Municipal Govt.    2     63     5,654     90      2     70    7,093    101
Djakarta  Provincial Govt.    1    40     2,564     64      1     40    2,720      68
Army               2      36    1,872     52      3     76    3,135     41
Private           17    225     7,727     34     20    274    7,829     29
Subtotal                    22    364    17,817     49     26    460   20,777     45
East      Municipal Govt.    2     68     5, 360    79      3     77    5,944     77
Djakarta  Army                2     22    1,871     85      2     22    1,950      89
Private           12    120     3,318     28     14    L59    3,983     25
Subtotal                    16    210    10,549     50     19    258   11,877     46
West      Army                2     55    1,325     24      2     53     1,446     27
Djakarta  Private             6     76    5,352     70     10    108    5,853      54
Subtotal                      8    131    6,677     51     12    161    7,299     45
North     Municipal Govt.     1     10       90      9      1      9      201      22
Djakarta  Army               1       7      176     25      1      7      178      25
Private            4     63     2.270     36      4     66    2,167     33
Subtotal                     6      80    2,536     32      6     82    2,546      31
South     Central Govt.       1     10      120     12      1     10      234      23
Djakarta  Provincial Govt.   1       5       63     13      1      6       90      15
Army               1      20      598     30      1     20      647      32
Private           20     210    7,083     34     20    210    7,451     35
Subtotal                    23     245    7,864     32     23    246    8,422     34
TOTAL                       75    1,030  45,443     44     86   1,207  50,921     42
Source: Djakarta Metropolitan Health Department.



ANNEX 12
DATA ON MIDWIFERY SCHOOLS, 1970
Students in           Maternity   Annual
Applicants  Residence  G-aduates   Beds    Deliveries
EAST JAVA
Government
RS Dr. Soetomo, Surabaja     237        343        31          50      3,000
RS Madiun                    300         86        13          50        972
RSU Malang                   200        163        29         50       2,885
RS Dr. Subandi, Djember       60         61        12          25        654
RS Gambiran, Kediri           50         64        11          12        722
RS Bangkalan                  - 1/       41          8         10        163
RS Bodjonegoro                55         46         - 2/       11        492
Subtotal                  902        804       104        208       8,888
Military
RSAL, Surabaja               297         76        353v/      94       4,744
RSAL, Malang                  20        127        30         50       2,400
Subtotal                  317        203        65        144       7,144
Private
RS Vincent A Paulo,           30         59         9         34       2,149
Surabaja
Mardi Santoso, Surabaja       66          82        13         97      5,800
RS William Booth, Surabaja    62         47        13         41       1,680
RS Panti Waluja, Malang       30         43         8         NA        NA
Reksa Wanita, Modjoker:to     73         62        - 2/       25         289
RS Sidi Chotidjah 4/          71         -         -          NA        NA
Subtotal                  332        293        43        197       9,918
TOTAL All Schools          1,551      1,300       212        549      25,950
DJAKARTA
Government
Budi Kemuliaan, Djakarta                196        36         138      6,216
Military
RSAL Djakarta                           NA         NA          27      1,680
Private
Sint Josef of St. Carolus Hospital      NA         26         79      4,031
RS Jajasan, Djakarta                    82         15          51      1,309
RS Husada                               NA          6          63      1,510
Angkatan Darat, RS PAD                  NA          6          94      3,436
TOTAL All Schools                      278         89        452      18,182
BALI
Government
RSU Denpasar                           116         32         117      3, 000
1/  No admission in 1970 because of a staff shortage.
2/ Will begin to graduate students in 1971.
3/ Graduates estimated.
4/ Started 1971.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 10
FAMILY PLANNIi SERVICES AND PERFORMANCE
1.        The Goverrment of Indonesia Task Force which outained the 5-year
national family planning program adopted the target of 6 million new
acceptors which the UN-WHO-IBRD Report recommended, but rephased it as
the table below indicates.
Table 1
UN-WHO-IBRD
Mission
Calendar Year     Annual Target      Fiscal Year    NFPCB Annual Target
1970                 -              1970-71             125,000
1971              300,000           1971-72            200,000
1972              600,ooo           1972-73            550,000
1973            1 ,200,000          1973-74           1,.000,000
1974            1,800,000           1974-75          1,700,000
1975            2,100,000           1975-76           2,500,000
TOTAL           66,000,,075, 000
2.        Family planning services in the government program are provided
through existing MCH facilities, frequently referred to as famly planning
"clinics." Data for fami'.y planning facilities and performance for 1965
and earlier years were obtained by IPPA and covered the whole of Indonesia.
In December 1969, shortly after the Government assumed responsibility,
there were 310 family planning clinics. To that date, IPPA reported a
small but steady growth in the number of acceptors per clinic/month --
from 4.6 in 1967 to 8.8 in 1968, and 10.8 in 1969. IPPA retains its res-
ponsibility for the 99 clinics in the outer islands ihich have about 4(0
acceptors per month. As noted earlier, the program really got underway
only in 1966 and full responsibility was not assumed by the Government
until mid-1969. In the absence of a standard reporting system, family
planning data are unreliable before 1968, and since then indicate con-
sistency of coverage but about 15% of the centers fail to report each
month. Sophisticated measurements, such as those used to indicate progress
in large developed programs, are only now being developed.
3.        In September 1971, the NFPCB reported that of the 1,804 family
planning clinics, 1,686 family planning clinics reported new acceptors
during the month (93.4%). Of these, 1,443 were operated by the Government,
79 by private agencies, and 164 by other institutions. There was an increase
of 90 over the previous month, half of which were reported from East Java.
The distribution of family planning clinics is shown in the following table:



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 10
Table 2
DISTRIBUTION OF FP C,LINICS BY PROVINCE. SEPTEMBER 1971
Average
Hours of
Total Listed Clinics         Total Reporting Clinics     Work per
Govern-   1/      2/          Govern-                         Clinic/
Province    ment Private   Ot:Ters Total  ment Private Othars     Total Month
Djakarta     49       19     65      133    47      19      53      119    49
West Java   328       17     32     377   317       15      34      366    38
Central
Java      30)4     17      13     334   302       16      17      335    45
Djogjakarta  82       5       4      91    81       4        3       88    26
East Java   656       24     54      734   583      17      49      649    68
Bali        119       8       8     135   113       8        8      129    67
TOTAL     1 ,538     90     17,   T1 1,804 43      79      1      166
1/ Operated by medical and paramedical staff in their private capacity.
f/ Includes clinics operated by the Armed Forces and voluntary organizations.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.
The target of acceptors per clinic/month set by the Ministry of Health is 8.0
for the 1971-72 plan year. For all clinics, the actual rate has risen from 8.7
for 1970 to 15.7 for January-March 1971 , and to 25.6 for July-September 1971.
Table 3 shows the rate of acceptors per clinic/month by province:
Table 3
JAVA AND BALI: ACCEPTORS PER CLINIC/MONTH
Jan.-Dec.     Jan.-Mlarch     Apr.-June      July-Sept.
Provinces                     1970            1971           1971           1971
Djakarta                      17.7           23.2            22.4           24.6
West Java                      6.7            15.8           17.7           2141
Central Java                   6.1            9.3            18.9           23.6
Djogjakarta                   10.1            9.8            16.3           17.9
East Java                      10.4           20.0           17.2           31.9
Bali                           7.2            15.0           17.5           17.4
Java and Bali                  8.7           15.7            18.4           25.6
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.
The above table illustrates the general increase in the use of iacilities,
indicating an increase in the number of acceptors not entirely due to the
opening of more facilities. Data indicate that the time devoted to family
planning services rose from 45 hours per clinic/month in May 1971, to 49 hours
in June, and to 54 hours in September.



ANNE)X 13
Page 3 of 10
4.        Details of new acceptors for Java and Bali are summarized in the
table below, and detailed in tables 5 to 12:
Table 4
JAVA AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY METHOD, 1967-71
IUD               Pill             Others;/.           Total
Year               Number                     Number       ,     Number
1967       5,904     52.0    2,795     24.6    2,664      23.4   11,363    100.0
1968      15,871     60.3    5,199     19.8    5,221      19.9    26,291   100.0
1969      22,896     56.7   10,704     26.5    6,774      i6.8   40,374    100.0
1970      60,515     45.7   51 ,747    39.1   20,045      15.2  132,307    100.0
1971Z/   113,635     420Q  138,771     51.2   18,535      6.8  270,941     100.0
TOTAL    218,821     45.5              43.5    53,239     11.0  4t1,276    100.0
1/  Includes condoms and vaginal foam tablets.
T/ January-September 1971.
From 1967 to 1970, the number of new acceptors has increased 11.6 times from
11,363 to 132,307. The biggest increase was experienced during the period
1969-70. In E71970-71, the number of new acceptors totalled 183,442, which
exceeded the target set for that fiscal year by 58,442 acceptors. Of these,
East Java accounted for 36%, followed by West Java with 23%, Central Java
with 16%, Djakarta with 14%, Bali with 7%, and Djogjakarta with only 4%. Over
one-third of the total number of new acceptors were recruited during the last
quarter of FY1971. The number of acceptors for the first half of the FY1971-72
represents 33% more than the target set for that year. Whilst all provinces
show a steady incraase in the number of new acceptors, East Java has nearly
tripled the number of new acceptors and to September 1971 was responsible for
over 40% of the national program's total. This increase is encouraging, but
as yet only 1.3% of women in the fertile age group of 15-44 years practice
family planning compared with 24% in Taiwan.
5.        According to data derived from a random sample in West Java drawn
from official service statistics of April 1971, 55.5% of the acceptors were
between the ages of 20 and 29 years, and 74% between 20 and 34 years. The
average number of children they had was 4.2. Of their level of education,
12.5% were illiterate and 47% had finished their elementary level. The
acceptors' husbands were mainly farmers, government employees, and trades-
men. Most of the new acceptors (97.5%) had not used any contraceptive
method before going to the clinic. The main motivation for accepting fami-
ly planning services was a desire not to have more children. Their princi-
pal means of information on family planning had been received through the
health personnel.
6.        Throughout Java and Bali., the trend has been towards the adoption
of the contraceptive pill as the most important method. Nevertheless, there
are differences in contraceptive use between provinces (see Table 6). In
Djakarta, during the first half of FY1971-72, 62.8% of the new acceptors
used the IUD; in West Java, 76.1% preferred the contraceptive pill, whilst in
Central Java, Djogjakarta, and Bali, the IUD was the most widely used method
(55.9%, 56.6%, and 77.1% respectively).  In East Java, there was an equal
number of acceptors using the contraceptive pill and the IUD in 1970, although



PAGE 1 3
Page 4 of 10
subsequent data show the preference of acceptors for the contraceptive pill
(58.2%). To a great extent, the choice of a particular method may be
accounted by staff preferences in the health facilities. According to
the June 1971 returns (Table 12), government clinics have more contraceptive
pill acceptors (51.1%) than others, as do other institutions (51.2%); private
clinics, however, have more acceptors who prefer the IUD (55.8%) and this may
reflect the fact that relatively more doctors are available for IUD insertion
at private clinics than at government clinics. Social factors also have an
influence; in many rural areas, for example, contraceptive pills are asso-
ciated with sickness and not, therefore, very popular. Throughout Indonesia,
a vasectomy is not acceptable for cultural reasons, and an abortion is legal
only when the life of the mother is in danger. There is no information on
the incidence of abortion in Indonesian society.



ANYEX 1 3
PageT5 of 10
FAMILY PLANNING ACCEPTORS BY METHOD
Table 5
DJAKARTA: NEW ACCEPTORS BY METHOD. 1967-71;/
I U D          Pill         Others          Total
Period             No.      %     No.      %     No.      %    No.      %
1967
Jan.  - March                   -       -          -      -      -
April - June          618   34.7    510   28.6     655   36.7   1,783  100.0
July  - Sept.       1,106  36.6     924   30.6     992   372.8  3,022  100.0
Oct. - Dec.         0      37.4   1.055   36.2     771   26.4   2918   100.0
Total             2,816   36.5  2,489   32.2   2,418   31.3   7,723  100.0
1968
Jan.  - March       1,108   67.5    263   16.0     271   16.5   1,642  100.0
April - June        1,417   68.9    292   14.2     349   16.9   2,058  100.0
July  - SeptL.      1,682   68.8    384   15.7     377   15.4   2,443  100.0
Oct. - Dec.         1,891  68.1     473   17.1     411   14.8   2,775  100.0
Total             6,098  68.4   1,412   15.8   1,408   15.8   8,918  100.0
1969
Jan. - March        1,856   62.2    601   20.1     527   17.7   2,984  100.0
April - June        2,146   61.8    683   19.7     642   18.5   3,471  100.0
July  - Sept.       1,835   52.8    808   23.2     833   24.0   3,476  100.0
Oct. - Dec.         2,335  57.2     887   21.7     862   21.1   4,084  100.0
Total             8,172  58.3   2,979   21.3   2,864   20.4  14,015  100.0
1970
Jan. - March        3,079   64.2    852   17.8     867   18.0   4,798  100.0
April - June        3,388   64.3    982   18.6     898   17.1   5,268  100.0
July  - Sept.       3,857  66.0   1,053   18.1     925   15.9   5,835  100.0
Oct. - Dec.        4,004   62.8   1.348   21.2   1,021   16.0   6,373  100.0
Total            14,328   64.3  4,235   19.0   3,711   16.7  22,274  100.0
1971
Jan. - March       4,793   62.5   1,842   24.0   1,030   13.4   7,665  100.0
April - June        4,311   62.7  2,052   29.8     513    7.5   6,876  100.0
July  - Sept,.      5548   63.1   2,693   30.7     547    6.2   8,788 100.0
Total            14,652  62.8   6,587   28.2   2,090    9.0  23,329  100.0
l/ January-September 1971.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX13
Page 6 of 10
Table 6
JAVA AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE AND METHOD, 19711/
I U D          Pill           Others           Total
Provinces            No.      %     No.       %     No.      %     No.       %
Djakarta            14,652   62.8   6,587    28.2   2,090    9.0  23,329   100.0
West Java           10,425   17.8  44,649    76.1   3,582    6.1   58,656  100.0
Central Java        27,193   55.9  16,748    34.4   4,682    9.7 48,623    100.0
Djogjakarta          6,081   56.6   2,112    19.6   2,556   23.8   10,749  100.0
East Java           42,184   37.5  65,537    58.2   4,878    4.3 112,599   100.0
Bali              J13,100    77.1   3,138    18.5     747    4.4  16,985   100.0
TOTAL              113,635   42.0 138,771    51.2  18,535    6.8 270,941   100.0
1/ January-September 1971.
Table 7
JAVA AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE AND METHOD. 1970
I U D           Pill          Others           Total
Provinces            No.      %     No.       %     No.      %     No. -- -
Djakarta            14,328   64.3   4,235    19.0   3,711   16.7  22,274   100.0
West Java            7,248   25.6  16,850    59.4   4,262   15.0   28,360  100l 0
Central Java        10,339   46.1   8,639    38.5   3,448   15.4  22,426   100.0
Djogjakarta          2,128   43.8   1,349    27.8   1,384   28.4   4,861   100.0
East Javw'          19,250   42.8  19,160   42.6    6,555   14.6  44,965   100.0
Bali                 7 222   76.7   1,514    16.1     685    7.3    9,421  100.0
TOTAL               60,515   45.7  51,747    39.1  20,045   15.2 132,307   100.0



ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 10
Table 8
JAVA AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE AND METHOD, 1969
I U D          Pill          Others         Total
Provrinces          No.      %     No.      %    No. -    %     No.      %
Djakarta            8,172   58.3   2,979   21.3   2,864  20.4  14,015  100.0
West Java           1,736   45.8   1,482   39.1     574   15.1   3,792  100.0
Central Java        4,701   65.8   1,778   24.9    661    9.3   7,140  100.0
Djogjakarta         1,405   51.4     664   24.3    666   24.3   2,735  100.0
East Java           4,768   48.6   3,151   32.1  1,889   19.3   9,808  100.0
Bali                2a114   73.3     650   22.5     120   4.2   2,884  100.0
TOTAL              22,896   56.7  10,704   26.5   6,774  16.8 40,374   100.0
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.
Table 9
JAVA AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE AND METHOD, 1968
I U D          Pill          Others         Total
Provinces           No.      %    No.       %    No.      %     No.      %
Djakarta            6,098   68.4   1,412   15.8  1,408   15.8   8,918 100.0
West Java           1,631   53.7     738   24.3     667   22.0   3,036  100.0
Central Java        3,127   41.7   1,559   20.8  2,820   37.6   7,506  100.0
Djogjakar a7          -      -       -      -       -     -       -      -
East Java           3,252   72.1     995   22.1     261   5.8   4,508  100.0
Bali                1,763   76.0     495   21.3     65    2.7   2,323  100.0
TOTAL              15,871   60.4   5,199   19.8  5,221   19.8  26,291  100.0
1/ Data for Djogjakarta were not providec separately.
Source:  Irdonesia Planned Parenthood Association.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 Of 10
Table 10
JAVA AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE AND METHOD, 1967
I U D          Pill           Others          Total
Provinces            No.     ___    No.      %     No.       %     No.      %
Djakarta             2,816   36.5   2,489   32.2    2,418   31.3   7,723  100.0
West Java              -      -       -       -       -
Central Java           449   80.0     112   20.0      -      -       561  100.0
Djogjakarta            -      -       -      -        -      -       -      -
East Java            1,183   79.6     113    7.6      190   12.,8  1,486  100.0
Bali                 1       91.4      81    5.1       56    3.5  .1593   100.0
TOTAL                5,904   52.0   2,795   24.6    2,664   23.4  11,363  100.0
Source: Natiortal Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 13
Table 11                       Page 51 of 10
JAVA, MADURA. AND BALI: NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE
PER 1,000 FERTILE WOMEN. APRIL 1970-MARCH 1971
Estimated
Estimated Number of                      Acceptors
Number of    Total   Women Aged                     Per 1,000
Clinics  Population  15 - 44            Acceptors   Fertile
(March    (In mil-  (In mil-     New    Per 1,000 Women Aged
Province     1971)     lions)    lions)   Acceptors Population  15 - 44
Djakarta      110       4.23      0.76      25,141     5.9        33.1
West Java     384      20.97      3.77      42,321     2.0         11.2
Central Java  320      21.36      3.84      31,663     1.5         8.2
Djogjakarta.   86       2.41      0.44       6,637     2.7         15.0
East Java     463      24.83      4.47      64,,717    2.6         14.5
Bali          102       2.06      0.37      12,963     6.3        35.0
TOTAIL      1,465      75.86     13.65     183,442     2.4         13.4
Source: Naltional Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX j
Table 12                         Page 10 of 10.
NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE. METHOD,
AND TYPE OF CLINIC, JUNE 1971
West   Central     Djc,-    East
Method      Djakarta    Java     Java    jakarta   Java     Bali    Total
Government
Clini-cs
Pill         313     4,162     1,865      285    5,331      432   12,38E8  51.1
IUD          867     1,127     3,362      773    3,130    1,214   10,473   43.2
Condom        24       225       250      192      182       76      949    3.9
Foaming
Tablet       29        78       153       43       89       29      421    1.8
Subtotal     1,233     5,592     5,630    1,293    8,732    1,751   24,231  100.0
Private
Clinics
Pill          90       159        94       24       80       20      467   36.7
IUD          142        67       204       25      111      162      711]  55.8
Condom        10         5        16       19        9       -        59    4.6
Foaming
Tablet        3          7       10        2       15       -        37    .2.9
Subtotal       245       238       324       70      215      182    1,274  100.0
Other
Clinics
Pill         289       332        13       35      372       38    1,079   51.2
IUD          391       108        67       44      254       22      886   42.0
Condom        47        19         7        4        9        1       87    4.2
Foaming
Tablet t     28         1        -         1       23        1       54    2.C
.Subtotal       755       460       87       84       658       62    2,106  100.0
TOTAL
Pill           692     4,653     1,972      344    5,783      490   13,934   50.4
IUD          1,400     1,302    3,633       842    3,495    1,398   12,070   43.9
Condom          81       249       273      215      200       77    1,095    3.9
Foaming
Tablet:        60        86       163       46      127       30      512    1.8
Grand Total  2,233     6,290     6,041    1,447    9,605    1,995   27,611. 100.0
Source:  N F ional Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 14
TOTAL NUMBER TRAINED IN FAMILY PLANNING UP TO JUNE 1971
Inform-           Reporting &
Training                               Field      ation    Social  Recording
Institution        Doctor    Midwife   Wori,PJ' Officer    Worker  Personnel    Other
National             75         97        70       34       96         -           34
Training
Center (IPPA)
Provincial          142         94        50        -        -         156          58
Training
Center
Djakarta
3,
Provincial           7'         74       188 -3
Training
Center
Bandung
Provincial           89        193       157        98       -          -         124
Training
Center
Semarang
Provincial           31         49       189        44       -          62          39
Training
Center
Djogjakarta
Provincial           51         73       161        -        -          97
Training
Center
Denpasar
Provincial          128        149        36       559       -          -
Training
Center
Surabaja           -          -        -          -        -         -           -
TOTAL               592        729       851       735       96        315         256
1/ Includes both paramedical and nonmedical field workers.
2/ Includes 26 group leaders.
3/ Includes 30 group leaders.



ANNEX 15
ESTIMATED TRAINING LOAD FOR IN-SERVICE TRAINING IN FAMTLY PLANNING
FOR ALL TRAINING INSTITUTIONS IN JAVA AND BALI, -971-76 1/
Djogja-          Semarang          Bandung           Surabaja
Djakartafpjakarta   karta     Bali  (C.Java)  C.Java  (W.java)  W.Java  (E.Java)  E.Java
N.T.C.- P.T,C.    P.T.C.    P.T.C. P.T.C.    S.T,C,   P.T.C,   S,T.C.   P.T.C.   S.T.C.   TOTAL
Trainer                134      -                                                     -        -        -        134
Administrator          230      -        -         -                                                             230
Regency
Social Worker          -         32       10        15     -         35      -         25      -         40      157
Regency
Information
Officer               -         32       10        15     -         35      -         25      -         40      157
Regency
Field Worker3/         -        425      240       210     -      2,140      -      2,100      -      2,500    7,615
Group Leader/          -         85       50        45     -        430      -        420      -        500    1,530
Field Worker 3
Supervisor            -          5        5         8     -         35      -         26      -         37      116
Doctor                 -        116       58        87     473      -        439      -        527      -      1,700
Midwife,
Auxiliary
Nurse-Midwife,
etc.                  -        300      152       228   1,212      -      1,128      -      1,355      -      4,375
Reporting and
Recording
Personnel             -         12        5         8      34      -         26      -         37      -        122
TOTAL                  364    1,007      530       616   1,719    2,675    1,593    2,596    1,919    3,117   16,136
1/  No re-training included.  Targets subject to review by the National Training Board when established,
and annually thereafter.
2/  The total training load for the National Training Board over the next 5-year period will be heavy
(doctors-in charge of regency health services, medical officers in charge of MCH/FP at regency level --
for 1 month training program, seminars for administrators, special worlcshops, etc., in addition to the
training of trainers for family planning training centers) but at this stage not definable in absolute
numbers.
3/  Constitutes the nonmedical field worker personnel.



ANNEX 16
STANING COiI4ITTEE ON FAMILY PLANNING TRAINIWa
1.    To provide for adequate coordirnation of family plaaning training
policies and requirements, a standing committee on family planning
training should be established. It would be responsible for recommend-
ing to the Chairman of the NFPCB training policies and priorities, the
appointment of training responsibilities and the use for training purposes
of the facilities included in the project. It must be fully representative
of all the agencies involved in family planning training and might comprise
the following:
Chairman    -    NCPCB Chairman
Secretary   -    Chief, NFPCB Bureau of Training & Education
]M'embers   -    Director, MCH/FP, IMinistry of Health
IPPA Secretary General
Chief, Edacation Bureau (5), Ministry of Health
Representative of University of Indonesia
(from I)emographic Center)
Senior Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecologgy
Representative of Armed Forces Family Planning
Committee
Representaltive of Ministry of Information.
2.    The National Training Center (NTC) should come under the immediate
review of the standing committee 1through a subcommittee or management
board. The chairman should be the Secretary-General of the IPPA with
the Director of the NTC as member.-secretary. The subcommittee would be
responsible for overall management under the auspices of the IPPA, and
for making decisions on programs, policies, and a budget, as well as
supporting the Director in relating to the needs and expectations of the
implementing agencies of the family planning program in Indonesia. The
NTC must have full-time staff and be directed to training senior
admiinistrative staff and medical staff and to the orientation of senior
policyniakers.



ANNEX 17
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE TO INDONESIA IN FAMILY PLANNING, 1968--71-
(U.S.$ equivalent of aid amcunt)
Donor                             1268j9 170-71
Bilateral Governent Agencies
Netherlands                     166,000            -         250,000
Japan                             9,000        4L6,O0        32,000
Sweden                              -           259,000          -
USAID                         1,o500,000       465,OO0   1,759 ,O00Q-/
Multilateral Agencies
UNFFA                               -           4C',000          -
UNESCO                              -            2,000           -
IBRD                                            23, 000          -
WHO                                                -         236, 00o/
UNICEFY          .                              23,000       379,000
Private Organizations
IPPF                            180,800        427,000       402 ,,000
World Assembly of Youth             -            9,000        19,000
Population Council                1,000         63,000        69,000
Pathfinder Fund                  15,000         35,000        13,000
Ford Foundation                 180,000        122,COO       160,()0
TOTAL                           2,051,800      1 ,288,000    3,319,000
1/ Includes provision for family planning/health manpower development;.
2/ The total figure proposed by WHO for its country program.
3! In addition, UNICEF has made a long-term commitaenti to assist the
Ministry of Health to upgrade general health services by contributing
about U.S.$1 .5 million annually from 1969-744.



ANNEX 18
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE TO INDONESIA IN FAMILY PLANNING, 1969-70
Recipient        Donor        Field              Commodity Assistance
NFPCB -          WHO           Services          Technical advisers; studies
Ministry                       Information       Technical assistance
of Realth                     Training           Technical assistance
Research and
Evaluation      Technical assistance; studies
NFPCB -          USAID         Services          Drugs; transport; medical kits
Ministry                                           office equipment
of Health                     Logistics          Technical assistance
Training          Equipment; teaching aids
Research and
Evaluation      Equipment
NFPCB -          UNICEF        Services          Technical advisers; medical kits;
Ministry                                           equipment; t:ransport; dukun kits
of Health                     Training           Construction equipment
Logistics         Technical assi.stance
NFPCB -          Population    Services          IUDs
Ministry         Council
of Health
NFPCB -          JAPAN         Services          Light t:ransport; office equip-
Ministry                                           ment:; condoms
of Health                     Information        Audiovisual aidls; printed
materials
NFPCB -          SWEDEN        Services          Contraceptives,; drugs
Ministry
of Health
NFPCB -          FORD          Training          Technical overseas training
Ministry
of Health
IPPA             FORD          Information       Technical assistance
Training          Technical assistance; pilot
project
NFPCB -          UNDP          Research and
Ministry                         Evaluation      Studies and evaluation mission
of Health
IPPA             IPPF          Information       Textbooks; equipment
Training          Construction; advisers
IPPA             NETHER-      Training           Construction; technical
LANDS                            assistance



ANNEX 15'
Page 1 of 4
PARAMEDICAL EDUCATION
Introduction
*  1.     The ability to meet the targets for family planning depends primarily on
the ability to train the necessary paramedical personnel to help carry out
the program. At present, the most important worker in this category is the
midwife; the emphasis should be rapidly moved to nursenmidwives supported by
auxiliary nurse-midwives (ANMi;).
2.        On the average, some 15-20% of those who apply for admission to midwifery
schools are admitted. There are high attrition rates during thie courses to which
several considerations apply. In spite of 9 years of general education, the educa-
tion level of candidates is low. More stringent selection procedures are required
to obviate the additional test given to pupil midwives 3 months after entry.   There
are presently no stipends or grants for students; each student pays admission fees
(of about Rp 1,500) and a monthly fee which ranges from school to school between
Rp 750 and Rp 1,50O, together with 12 kilos of rice. There is no established
common level of fees. Students are expected to do all the domestic work in the
hospital to which they are attached for training, and also help in the hostels.
The cost of training one midwifery student annually is Rp 360,000; of this the
Government makes provision for Rp 36,00DO, the remainder being covered by fees and
the labor of students as domestics and general nurses in the hospitals.   In conse-
quence, the status of the student is viery low and the extra duties leave little
time for studying, with a consequently high failure rate in examinations. Parents
are frequently unable to maintain fee payments. Many students become rapidly dis-
enchanted with inadequate hostel accommodation, and in many cases, the need to
live in cities in private accommodation heightens the adverse urban cultural im-
pact. Attrition is also, in part, the result of a lack of qualified teachers, and
also a high teacher-student ratio (of :!:80 or more) is not uncommon.
3.        Classroom accommodatiton is frequently inadequate and equipment is in
short supply.  Anatomical charts, model.s, films, and posters, etc., are essential
visual aids for training and teaching in midwifery and family planning. Models
are needed to teach IUD insertioDn methods to midwifery students so that certain
degrees of skill, manual dexterity, and confidence are achieved before actual in-
sertions are performed. Library facilities are very poor, since there are few
texts in the Indonesian language; consequently students have to rely upon
lecture notes.
4e        Dcrmitories are, in general, overcrowded and inadequate.   Hostels are
requir~ed for students which wciL be their nome dir-ng training; more amenities
and recreational facilizies are neede-- to allow stuCentAs to relax after training
and work duties, which are hard and tiring.
5. -The problem of attriziLon rates is complex and requires detailed
study.  It appears that it would be ameliorated, at 1G ast in part, by:
a.   abolishing fees and providing stipern.-.. to  emove economic
constraints with the introduction ol --rvLce agreements;
b.   providing adequate aomes-ic staff ir. sc;^. hostels, aria hospital
wards to allow students more timie -L --ay -.d practice;



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 4
c.   providing more clerical staff to relieve teaching staff and students
in schools and hospitals, Df - -ie?vy ' oad of paper work;
d.   providing better physical facf.lities; and
e.   providing more and better oualified teachers.
Staffing
6.        The change of program commencng in 1971, from 3 years of midwifery
training to 3 years of nurse training a':::.  year of Ymidwifery training, will
produce well-traine.d nurse-midwives. The curric-alum for their training has
been developed to include an adequate component of family planning training.
But the length of the new course will initially limit the number of graduate
midwives trained. This would, therefore, be the ideal time to begin the
training of auxiliary nurse-midwives, a cadre of which forms the backbone
of the health services of many developing countries.
7.        The ANM concept has already been accepted by the Government of
Indonesia, but still has to be effected. The ANM should be an active multi-
purpose worker, responsible for the health care of a given population, with
emphasis on MCH and family planning.  She would not replace the midwife, but
would fall under her professional supervision and adninistrative control.
To be fully effective, the ANM must live in the area to which she is assigned.
Following 9 years of general education, the ANM program should consist of
2 years of basic training; it is described in Annex 20.
ANM Functions
8.        The functions of the ANM would include:
a. Family Planning
Direct responsibility for educating members of the community in
family planning, in close cooperation with village leaders, other
Government family planning workers, particularly field workers, and
voluntary associations. Responsibility for providing contraceptive
services, such as the distribution of contraceptive pills, condoms,
etc.  Responsibility for the follow-up care of contraceptive ac-
ceptors of all kinds, and their referral if necessary. Assistance
in the preparation of the necessary records and reports.
b.   Maternal Health
Responsibility for the prenatal, intranatal, and postnatal care of
all mothers known to her, and their referral where necessary.
Health education of the mother in family care and family planning in
the home and at the center.
C.   Child Health
Responsibility for the care of newborn., infant, preschool, and
school children -- general care, nutrition, prevention of deficiency
and communicable diseases (vaccination, immunization, etc.).



ANEX 19
Page 3 of '
d.   Dukun Training and Supervision
Responsibility for the training and supervision of the dukuns in
her area, and their orientation to family planning.
9.        To providea career possibilities, the ANM should have the opportunity
of becoming a fully qualifieid nurse-midwife. After she has completed at least
5 years of field experience, further training for 1 year should be available
to complete her qua:lifications.
Supplementary Trainimg
10.       In order to boost the number of paramedical staff available for
MCH/FP work, supplementary training programs should be considered. Special
attention should be paid to the requirements of the demonstration field
paramedical program in East, Java. The most urgent areas are:
a.   Nurse-Midwives
A 1-year post basic program in midwifery and family planning for
existing qualified nurses has been accepted by the Government, and
an acceptable curriculum has already been prepared. It could be
implemented in existing schools, candidates being replaced at the
rate of 100 per yeax in their present positions by new nurse
graduates. Division E and the Division of Nlursing of the Ministry
of Health should be responsible for:
i.   selecting suJitable midwifery schools;
ii.   selecting the best available students;
iii.   ensuring their replacement by new graduates; and
iv.   negotiating program implementation with the medical directors
of the selected training schools.
To attract candidates of the requisite calibre, stipends of
Rp 5,000 pear month must be paid. In return, candidates should
undertake to wor'k as directed by the Government for 3 years.
b.   Auxiliary lNurse-Midwives
To meet thei urgent demands of the MCH/FP program, consideration
should be given to planning and implementing supplementary training
programs for existing assistant nurses (PKCs) and assistant mid-
wives (PKEs). The former would require training in midwifery and
family plarnning, and the latter would reqluire training in nursing
and family plann:ng. No syllabus has been prepared by the
Government, but bhe ANM syllabus (see Annex 20) could be adopted as
appropriate for each staff category. Preparation should be, in
either case, of L year's education. As an incentive to further
training of staff already employed, and probably married, stipends
of Rp 3,500 must be available. In return, candidates would have
to undertake to work for 3 years in the MCH/FP program as directed
by the Government.



ANNEX 19
of 4.
Tutor Training
11.       A serious problem facing the expansion of paramedical education is
the inadequate numlber and quality of teaching staff. With 11HO/UNICEF
assistance, short courses (3 months) in methods of teaching are being con-
ducted for qualified nurse-midwives or midwives, with at least 3 years of
experience. In order to meet the problem mnore directly., a UNFPA-assisted
UNICEF project is being developed to prepare nurses and midwives as nurse-
teachers and midwife-teachers.  it provides 1-year courses for which an
adequate syllabus has been prepared. Three schools -- in Surabaja, Djakarta,
and Macasser -- are being estabLished to admit 90 students annually. The
school in Surabaja was to admit its first pupils in July, 1971. In Djakarta,
the new school buildings will be ready by January, 1972. The graduates from
these schools should be posted to the new schools established uncder this
project, in addition to filling staff complements at existing schools. In
addition, the Government of Indonesia nominates carldidates for a WHO/New
Zealand Government program which enables nurses and nurse-midwives, ineligible
for admission to post basic nursing programs in their own country, to obtain
post basic preparation in teaching, public health, nursing services, adminis-
tration, etc. Thei program lasts for 1 year and includes 3 months' intensive
English language turaining.  Candidates from Indonesia for the 1972 courses
should be selected for preparation in teaching. If full use is made of the
several opportunities, sufficient tutors will be available for the expanded
paramedical education component of this project.
Sanction for Posts
12.       Development of the MCH/FP program depends on staff expansion which,
in turn, depends on the provision of more and better training facilities.
The objective will not be realized, however, until the Government sanctions
more posts. There are no vacant posts in Djakarta for the midwives who will
graduate in 1971; the 19 nurse-midwives who graduated from the Denpasar
school in December, 1970, are employed only on an ad hoc daily basis. Where
necessary, the central Government should underwrite the provincial Government's
sanction for nurse-midwife and auxiliary nurse-midwife posts.



ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 8
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE AUXILIARY NURSE-MIDWIFE
1.        A candidate for auxiliary nurse-midwife training should have reached
the age of 17 years and have a minimum of 9 years education. The program
should be of 2-year duration,
2.        Its objectives should be to:
a.   produce a well-prepared family planning/family health worker;
b.   emphasize the far-reaching effects on family and community health
of family planning and good maternal and child health (MC1I) practice;
c.   develop an appreciation of the significance of population growth
and its impact on social change, national economic development, and
health services; and
d.   develop in the student the ability to work as a member of a team in
family planning and in family health.
The Syllabus
3.        Until such time as a Nurses and Midwives Council is established in
Indonesia, requirements for training should be laid down and the syllabus
planned by Bureau V (Education and Training) of the Ministry of Health and
the Division of Nursing of the Ministry of Health.
4.        To meet the objectives of the program and to enable the ANM to
carry out her functions effectively, it is suggested that the program include
family planning, nursing, midwifery, and public health with practical experience
in each area and with family planning integrated throughout. Allowing for
4 weeks' vacation annually, training should include:
a.   7 months   - Nursing and Family Planning
b.  12 months   - Midwifery and Family Planning
c.   3 months   - MCH, Family Planning, Public Health in Rural Health
Training Cx:ters, based on a rotation plan.
5e        The syllabus should include the following subjects:
a.   Family Planning
i.   Philosophy Ef family planning -- introduction to the national
family planning program; demographic, socio-economic, religious,
cultural, and health aspects of family planning.
ii.   Human reproduction -- anatomy and functions of male and female
reproductive organs; physiology of menstruation; contraception;
methods of contraception -- traditional, modern; their use,
effectiveness, contraindications,. complications, and side-
effects; determination of referral cases;    follow-up of
acceptors; case finding and case holding.



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 8
iii.   ]:nformation -- motivation methodology, communications, inter-
viewing.
iv.   Health education -- aims and principles; melthods; follow-up;
techniques for teaching individuals and groujps in family
planning.
v.   Administration -- organization of MCH/FP clinics; preparation
of the necessary equipment; maintenance of records and reports.
vi.   Integration of family planning into MCH and postpartum programs.
Total hours      96
b.   General Nursing
i.   General needs of the patient -- nu;,sing care in various conditions
and diseases, e.g., bronchitis, pni ionia, rheumatic fever and
heart failure; preoperative and posto>perative care of patients
who have undergone surgery; family planning needs identified and
referred.
ii.   Pediatrics .-- normal child growth and development; recognition
of deviations from the normal -- physical or mental; child care
and nutrition; prevention of infections -- vaccinations and
immunization; nursing care of sick children; family planning
advice to parents.
iii.   Communicable diseases -- communicable diseasets prevalent in the
country, including diseases of the intestinal tract; their pre-
vention and control --- vaccinations, immunization, and BCG;
clean water supply; refuse disposal; nursing care of patients
with infections or contagious diseases; problem of overcrowding;
poor sanitation and exposure to infection in the large size,
low-income families.
iv.   Ophthalmic conditions and diseases prevalent in the country -
prevention and nursing care.
v.   Food and nutrition -- nutritional requirements of mother and
child in relation to other members of the family; nutritional
requirements of preschool and school child; essential food
factors -- proteins, carbohydrates, fats, mirterals, and vita-
mins; nutritional deficiencies and their prevention, e.g.,
anemia, blindness, beri-beri, etc.; balanced diets using the
foods available in the country; nutrition in relation to
family planning, size of family, food cost, and budgeting;
improving family, nutrition through family planning.
vi.   Microbiology -- organisms causing diseases, e.g., venereal
diseases; incidence of diseases; infection; asepsis and anti-
sepsis; sterile techniques required for midwifery, insertion
of IUDs, dressings, ete.
vii.   Pharmacology -- drugs and mixtures, including oral contraceptives;
their usage, dosage, and administration.



ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 8
viii.   Personal and community health -- principles of hygiene and
sanitation applied to person, home, and environment; pre-
vention of infection; role of the ANM in health education.
ix.   Community nursing -- domiciliarv services; midwifery;
maternal and child health; home visiting; home nursing;
family planning; control of communicable diseases; envi-
ronmental sanitation.
c.   Obstetrics
i.   General care of mother -- temperature, pulse, respiration,
blood pressure, weight, and urine testing; palpation and
auscul :ation.
ii.   Principles of hygiene -- sanitation and nutrition in relation
to the mother.
iii.   Causes of infection in midwifery and their prevention; prin-
ciples of asepsis and antisepsis applied to midwifery.
iv.   Anatomy and physiology of the female pelvis, reproductive
organs, and the breasts.
v.   Physiology, diagnosis, and management of normal pregnancy.
vi.   Signs and symptoms suggesting deviation from normal pregnancy --
toxemia, antepartum hemmorrhage, and other obstetric compli-
cations; their causes, prevention, and treatment.
vii.   Physlology, mechanisms, and management of normal labor.
viii.   Signs and symptoms suggesting departure from normal labor.
ix.   Physiology and management of the puerperium.
x.   Signs and symptoms suggesting departure from normal puerperium --
puerperal pyrexia, puerperal asepsis; causes, prevention, and
managemrent.
xi.   Care of the breastrs under normal and pathological conditions.
xii.   Care of the newborn infant -- recognition of congenital abnor-
malities; establishment of breast feeding and artificial
feeding; recognition of disorders occurring during the first
month of life with special reference to those in which skilled
medical or surgical care may be needed.
xiii.   Resuscitation of the newborn infant as required; care of the
premature infant.
xiv.   Ophthalmia neonatorum and other infections in the infant.
xv.   Venereal diseases -- their signs, symptoms and dangers, and



ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 8
the risk of contagion; the midwives' responsibilities for
advocating early and continued treatment.
xvi.   Postpartum contraception.
xvii.   Use of drugs and solutions as they may be required in midwifery
practice; their dosage and' strength; mode of administration or
application and the dangers involved.
xviii.   Maternal mortality, stillbirths, neonatal mortality, infant
mortality -- the meaning of these terms; steps taken to pre-
vent and reduce such mortalities; responsibilities of the
midwife.
xix.   Records and reports -- prenatal, intranatal, and postnatal
records; family planning records.
d.   Practical Midwifery
Experience must include the following:
i.   Prenatal care of at least 20 pregnant women.
ii.   Responsibility for not less than 20 women during labor.    If
possible at least five of these should be delivered in their
own homes.
iii.   Responsibility and care for not less than 20 postpartum women
and their infants, five in their own homes if possible.
iv.   Active participation in the family planning program with
particular emphasis on the postpartum program.
e.   Coumunity Nursing
This experience should be planned during the 2 months rural health
experience at which time the student iAN will participate, under
supervision, in all activities, MCH/FP polyclinic, home-visiting,
school health, and dukun training.
Duration of program      2 years.
Hours of duty   : 8-hour day; 5-1/2-day week; 44 hours each week;
4 weeks annual leave; 834 hours theory and approximately
3,390 hours for practical experience in wards, maternity
wards, labor rooms, MCH/FP clinics, and health centers.



ANNEX 20
Page 5 of 8
Suggested Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife Curriculum
Total Hours
Subjects                 Theory                  Practical
Basic Principles of Nursing Care     120     In demonstration room and wards.
Anatomy and physiology                80
Family Planning (FP):
Human Reproduction                   6     Antenatal clinic.
Introduction to the National
Family Planning Program            2
Philosophy of Family Planning        2     Visits to MCH/FP clinics, health
Demographic Aspects of FP            2       centers, wards.  Home visiting
Socio-Economic Aspects of EP         4       with a nurse, midwife, or field
Cultural A.spects of FP              4       worker.
Religious Aspects of FP              4
Health Aspects of FP                 4
Micro-biology                         20     Visit to laboratory,
Personal and Community Health         30     Wards, MCH/FP clinics, health
centers; home visiting with
public health nurse.
Medical Nursing                       30     Medical wards.
Surgical Nursing                      30     Surgical wards.
Gynecological Nursing                 30
Family Planning:                             Gynecological wards, MCH/FP
Structure and Functions of the               centers, postpartum. wards.
Generative Organs                 16
Methods of Contraception
Pediatric Nursing                     40     Pediatric wards, MCH/FP clinics,
health centers (polyclinics).
Communicable Diseases:
Nursing Care, Prevention,                  Infectious disease wards or
and Control                       40       hospitals, health centers;
visits with public health nurse,
malaria worker, smallpox vacci-
nator, etc.
Ophthalmology Nursing Care            15     Ophthalmology ward, pediatric ward,
health centerc, MCH/FP center.
First-Aid and Bandaging               10     Classroom.
Food and Nutrition                    30     Diet kitchen with nutritionist,
MCH/FP center.
Community Nursing                     20     MCH/FP centers, health centers,
home visiting.
Phiarmacology:
Drugs, Their Usage, Dosage, and
Administration                    10     Wards.
Family Planning:
Oral Contraceptives                  6     Wards, MCH/FP clinics.
Spermicidals
Principles and Aims of Health                Wards, 2ACH/FP centers, health
Education                            6       centers.



ANNEX 20
Page 6 of 8
Total Hours
Subjects                 Theory                  Practical
Obstetrics:
Obstetrical.Anatomy and
Physiology                        30
Nutrition Applied to Pregnancy         10
Micro-biology:
Infection, Asepsis, and
Antisepsis                         10    Wards and delivery room.
Management of Normal Pregnancy         40     Antenatal clinic, MClI/FP clinics.
Signs and Symptoms of Departure
from Normal Pregnancy               40     Antenatal clinic, MCH/FP clinics,
antenatal wards.
Mechanisms and Management of Normal
Labor                               20     Maternity wards and delivery rooms.
Signs and Symptoms of Departure from
Normal Labor                         10    Maternity wards and delivery rooms.
Puerperium:
Management of Normal/Abnormal        10     Postnatal wards.
Family Planning:
Postpartum Contraception            16     Postnatal wards, MCH/FP centers.
Child Care:
Care of Newborn                 1   20     Maternity wards and nursery.
Care of Premature Infant        J
Family Planning:
Information, Motivation             12     MCH/FP center.
Obstetrical Complications             15     Maternity wards, delivery room.
Pharmacology:
Drugs Used in Midwifery             10     Wards and delivery room.
Family Planning:
Administration, Integration of
FP into MCH, Postpartum Program      12    Maternity wards, MCH/FP clinics.
Venereal Diseases                     66     Venereal disease clinic.
Records and Reports                    66    Maternity wards, MCH/FP clinics.
Vital Statistics:
Maternal. Mortality Rate
Stillbirths                          6     Maternity wards, MCH/FP clinics.
Neonatal Mortality Rate
Infant Mortality Rate           J
TOTAL HOUJR,S THEORY                 834



ANNEX 20
Page 7 of 8
Rural Health Experience for
Student Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives
6.        As the auxiliary nurse-midwife is being prepared to wcrk in rural
areas, it is essential that part of her preparation takes plact at rural
MCH/FP clinics and health centers.
7.        To introduce her to the concept of MCH/FP and family health
during the first year, arrangements should be made for visits of observation
to these clinics, and to observe home visiting techniques with nurse-midwife
or midwife, family planning field worker, vaccinators, sanitarians, malaria
workers, etc.
8.        During the second year, the program should be planned so t:hat each
student has a minimum of 12 weeks' supervised practice in selected MCH/FP
clinics and health centers. These selected centers will have living accom-
modation attached to where the student will live.
9.        The experience should be planned by the nurse-midwife tutor in
consultation with the medical officer and nurse-midwife at the center, and
to ensure adequate supervision of the students, if possible, not more than
four should be sent to a center at any one time.
10.       Before a student is sent to a rural center for practical experience,
she must have been responsible for not less than five women during labor and
delivery, and must have been responsible for the nursing care of five post-
partum mothers and their infants.
Practical Rural Health Experience
a.   Weeks 1-2
This should be a period of orientation to and further obgervation
of all activities at the MCH/FP clinic and health center --
MCH/FP clinic including IUD insertions; infant and preschool clinics;
polyclinic; vaccination and immunization clinics including BCG;
dukun training classes; health _ducation -- family planning, indi-
vidual and group teaching; home visits with the various MCH/FP and
health center staff to observe the techniques of home visiting,
follow-up of acceptors, and if possible a home delivery.
b.   Weeks 3-12
During this period, under supervision, the student ANM will participate,
in rotation, in all the activities of the centers. If possible, she
should be responsible, under supervision, for not less than five women
during labor and delivery, and for the nursing care of five postpartum
mothers and their infants in the home. (If home deliveries are not
available, this experience could be arranged in the maternity ward
of the MCH/FP clinic.)
c.   Prenatal Clinic
Preparation of the clinic, interviewing and taking history of the
mothers, weighing, urine testing, blood pressure, palpation and
auscultat,on, advising on general health and family planning as
required.



ANNEX 20
Page 8 of 8.
d.   Family Planning Clinic
Preparation of the clinic; sterilization of equipment required
including IUDs; distribution of conventional contraceptives;
keeping records and reports; individual and group teaching as
required.
e.   Infant and Preschool Child Clinic
Preparation of the clinic; interviewing mothers; weighing and
measuring babies and children; assisting the doctor with examina-
tions and treatment; advising on general care, nutrition, vacci-
nations and immunizations, and family planning as required.
f.   Polyclinic
Assisting the doctor and nurse in examinations, treatments, etc.;
health teaching.
g.   Group Teaching
Have the opportunity to plan and conduct at least two classes for
mothers -- one on some aspectsof family planning.
h.   Administration of the Center
Records, reports, and statistics; planning of home visits.
i.   Home Visiting
The student ANM, having had a period of observation in home visiting
with the health center personnel, should, be given a small area of
about 50 families.  In this area, she wil l be responsible, to the
nurse-midwife, for the follow-up of all cases -- family planning,
maternal and child health, and others - as required.



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 5
RECOMMENDED INTEGRATED MCH/FP STAFFING PATTERN
FOR EAST JAVA. BALI, AND DJAKARTA AT REGENCY LEVEL AND BELOW
1.        The annex outlines the present staf. of the MCH/FP structure at and
below regency level and recommends additions (underlined) to ensure a more
adequate family planning service coverage.
A. East Java
Regency:   Population of about 800,000.
Structure
i.   Offices of Administration and Records
ii    Small hospital, with about 10 maternity beds, but often
without the equipment or medical skills for operative
obstetrics
iii.   MCH/FP center.
Staff
i.   Administrative medical officer
ii.   Doctor-in-charge of hospital
iii.   Medical officer for communicable disease control,
Medical officer for health promo-lon (nutrition, sanitation, etc.),
Medical officer for MCH/FP
iv.   Nurse-midwife assigned to maternity section of hospital
v.   One supervisory midwife to assist the family planning medical
officer in supervising midwives and ANMs
vi.   Statistical assistant to ensure the adequate recording and
reporting of family planning data from centers at regency
level and below
vii.   One assistant supervisor for the nonmedical field worker
program.
District:   (Comprised of about five sub-districts)  Total population about
200,000.
Staff
i.   Medical officer to supervise the work of the sub-district
level health centers
ii.   Supervisory midwife to supervise the work of midwives in
the sub-districts
iii.   Three group leaders for supervising the nonmedical field
workers' program (one for every five nonmedical field workers).
Sub-District:  Population of about 44,000
Structure
i.   MCH center with family planning facilities at sub-district
headquarters



i NEX 21
Page 2 of 5
ii.   Two MCH/FP centers elsewhere in the sub-district.
Staff
i.   Onie nurse-midwife at the MCH/FP center
ii.   Two auxiliary nurse-midwives to work under the overall
supervision of the midwife but responsible for all aspects
of MCH and family planning work, resident at centers to be
established at strategic sites in the sub-district, but
outside headquarters
iii.   Four nonmedical field workers, one each for a population of
about 10,000 for family planning education.
Supgortive Workers
2.        In addition to the staff listed above, who will be primarily res-
ponsible for the integrated MCH and family planning program implementation,
social workers and information officers, etc., at the sub-district and
regency levels, other health workers such as health controller, malaria
workers, yaws workers, and vaccinators, as well as the dukuns and D.K.D.s/
at the village level, should be involved in bringing acceptors.
B. Bali
3.        For the eight regencies, with a total population of 2.1 million,
a more intensive staffing pattern in accordance with existing plans for Bali
is recommended.
Regency:  Average population 280,000.
Staff
i.   Administrative medical officer for the regency
ii.   Doctor-in-charge of the hospital
iii.   Medical officer for communicaLble disease control,
Medical officer for health promotion,
Medical officer for MCH and family planning
iv.   One supervisory midwife to assist the medical officer
in supervising the midwives and ANMs
v.   One nurse-midwife to work in the hospital
vi.   Another eight supervisory midwives to supervise the work of
nurse-midwives and ANMs at and below the sub-district level,
at the rate of one per five midwives or ANMsr-
vii.   One assistant supervisor for the nonmedical field workers' program
viii.   Five group leaders to supervise and support community education,
at the rate of one for every five nonmedical field workers.
Sub-District:   Average population 45,000.
Staff
i.   Oae nursej  dwife at the sub-district health center
ii.   One niurs   dwife or one auxiliary nurse-midwife for every
two vi-l. es at an overall rate of one nurse-midwife to
two ANMs s;
1/ Part-time health worke ', appointed and paid by village authorities.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 5
iL     One nonmedical field worker for every 10,000 population.
Supportive Workers
i.   One social worker, one information officer, and one health
controller for each regency
ii.   One social worker assistant and one information officer for
each sub-district
iii.   About 25 dukuns for each sub-district
iv.   Other health workers such as malaria workers, yaws workers,
vaccinatoirs, etc.
C. Djakarta
4.        For five municipalities and 27 sub-districts, each with a population
of 200,000, the following staffing pattern is recommended:
Municipality:   Average population 1 million.
Staff
i.   Administrative medical officer for the municipality
ii.   One doctor-in-charge of the hospital
ii. Medical officer for communicable disease control,
Medical officer for health promotion,
Medical officer for MCH and family planning
iv.   One supervisory midwife to assist the medical officer in
supervising the nurse-midwives and ANMs
v.   One assistant supervisor for the nonmedical field worker
program.
Sub-District:  Average population 250,000.
Staff
i.   One medical officer for the health center
ii.   One doctor-in-charge of the hospital
iii.   Four nurse-midwives for each health center
iv.   Four auxiliary nurse-midwives assignted to the health center
and hospitals, and seventeen ANMs for community MCH and
family planning work at the rate of one per 15,000 population
v.   Twenty-five nonmedical field workers, at the rate of one per
10,000 population
vi.   Five group leaders, at the rate of one per five nonmedical
field workers.
Supportive Workers
5.        In addition to the staff listed above, the social workers and inform-
ation officers, etc., at the sub-district and municipal levels, the other
health workers such as health controller, malaria worker, yaws workers, and
vaccinators, etc., as well as the dukuns, should be involved in bringing more
acceptors.



ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 5
Table 1
REC-1MENDED NUMBER OF STAFF
FOR INTEGRATED MCH AND FAMILY PLANNING WORK
IN EAST JAVA. BALI AND DJAKARTA
Staff Cat>gory                         East Java           Bali          Djakarta
Administrative Medical. Officers              37              8               5
Hospital Medical Officers                     37              8              32
Medical Officers                             250             24              42
Supervisory Midwives                         176             72               5
Nurse-Midwives                               571            151             108
Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives                   1,068            186             297
Nonmedical
Field Workers                              2,136            200             675
Group Leaders                               417              40             135
Assistant Supervisors                         37              8               5
Supportive Workers                         1,179            124              69
Dukuns                                    14,000          1,250           5,000
D. K. D.s                                  8,010            -
Other Hea.lth Workers                     2,553             224             i23



ANNEX 21
Page 5 of 5.
Table 2
RECO1MENDED STAFFING PATTERN FOR INTEGRATED MCH AND
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES AT AND BELOW LEVEL OF REGENCY IN EAST JAVA
Total MCH & FP Staff as per            Recommnendations of
Present MCH Staff                 UN-WHO-IBRD Report                Appraisal Mission
Sub-District 'District   Regency   Sub-District  District   Regency   Sub-District  District   Regency
Staff Categor                          Level      Level     Level        Level      Level      Level        Level      Level      Level
I.
Administrative Medical
Officers                               -          -          1            -          -         1
Hospital Medical Officers                -          -          1            -          -         L
Medical Officers                         -          1          2            -          1          3           -                     3
Supervisory Midwives                     -          -         1             -          -         1                  -    -            2/
Nurse-Midwives a'                        1          -          -            2          -         -            1
Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives                 2 -        1          -            2          1                      2
11.
Nonmedical
Field Workers                                       -                       2          -                      4          -
Gtoup Leaders                            -          -          -            -          1          -           -          3 4/
Assistant Supervisors                    -          -          -            -          -         1
III,
Supportive Workers                       2          -          3            2          -          3           2 5/                  3
Nurses (Mantris)                         4 6/                  -            4          -          -           4 6/
Dukuns                                  25 -        -          -           25z-        -          -          25 -
D.K.D.s                                 15 7/       -          -           15 7'       -          -          15 7/
Other Health Workers                     4          3          -            4          3          -           4 /        3 -
1/ Medical officers in charge of (a) healt)h promotion and (b) communicable disease control at the 'cegency le9Y-'
2/ Now only midwives.
3/ Now only assistants to midwives and, assistant midwives.
4/ In ratio of one group leader for five field workers.
5/ One social assistant and one information officer at sub-district level and one social worker, orne information
officer, and one health controller at regency level.
6/ lNumber estimated.
7/ Number estimated.
8/ One malaria worker, one yaws worker, one smallpox vaccinator, and one assistant sanitarian at sub-district
level and one malaria supervisor, one sanitarian, and one administrator at regency level.



ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 10
SITES FOR MiCHASP CENTER CONS$TRU(ITION
I.   LK SCHOOLS
1. At district level with ANK dormitory accormnaon16
A. East Java
Regency                      DistriOct
TUBAN                        Tuban
Rongol
Djatir Tgo
Parengr,mn
MAGETAN                      Gorang - Gareng
Pontjol.
Karingredjo
Sukomm,v~
BLITAR                       SrengaiN;>
Lodojo
Sanan ilJon
Taluh
1/
SIDOARDJO                    Kwanjaji:
B107ta
Alasba,ja
Sepulsa
1/ Clinics located in Bangkalan Regenoy



ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 10
2.   At district level (:l$)
Regency                     District                   Location
Modjokerto                  Sooko                     Sooko
Gondang                   Gondang
Godeg                     Gedeg
BodJonegoro                 Kalitiduh                 Kalitiduh
Madiun                      Saradan                   Saradan
Wungu                     Wungu (desa
Modj opurno)
Ngawi.                       Ngrambe                  Ngrambe
Tulungagung                 Tjampurdarat              Tjampurdarat
Trenggalek                  Karang n                  Karangan
Malang                      Singosari                 Singosari
Bululawang                Bululawang
Pasuruan                    Kedjajan                  Kedjajan
Patjitan                    Tegalombo                 Tega2.ombo
B}anjuwangi                 Bongoredjo                Bongoredjo
Paielcasan                  Galis                     Galis
3. At sub-district level (1841)
Regency                     Sub-district              Location
Surabaja                    Gresik                    Manjar
Tjerrne                   Dendjeng
Duduk Sampejan
Udjung Pangkah
Drijoredjo                Kedaxnean
Menganti
Wringin Anom
Sedaju                    Dukun
Bungah
Tambak                    Tambak
Sidoardjo                   Krijan                    Prambon
Balongbendo
Wonoaju
Sidoardjo                 Tjandi
Taman                     Sedati
Waru
Sukodomo
Taman (desa Trosobo)
Porong                    Tanggulangin
Krembung



ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 10
Regency                          Sub-district              Location
Modjokerto                       Modjosanr                  Kutoredjo
Dlanggu
Sumbersono
Sooko                     Trowulan
Bangsal
Turi (desa Tangunian)
Gedeg                     Djetis
Djomnbang                        Djombang                  Diwek (desa Tjukir)
Perak
Tembelung (Puloredio)
Plaso                     Kabuh
Plandean
Kudu
Ngoro                     Wonosalam
Bareng
Gajam
Modjoagung                Kesamben (desa
Blimbing)
Kesamben
Sumobito
Bodjonegoro                      Bodjonegoro               Kapas
Dander
Bautreno                  Kedung dalam
Pandangan                 Purwosari
Tambakredjo               Ngraho
Tuban                            Tuban                     Palang
Bongol                    Plumpang
Djatiroto                 Kenduran
Bantjar                   Djemu
Lamongan                         Lamorigan                 Kembang baku
Karangbinangun            Glagah
Babat                     Modo
Ngumbong                  Mantup
Patjiran                  Brodong
Dagangan
Madiun                           Madiun                    Dagangan (desa
Prambon)
Baleredjo
Baleredjo (desa Simo)
Djiwan (desa Bakur)
Hadiun (desa Nglames)
Kebonsari



ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 10
Regency                      Sub-district              Location
(Madiun)                     Saradan                   Pilangkentjeng
Mediajan 'Wonoasu)
Wungu                     Gemarang (desa Tawangredjo)
Ngawi                        Padas                     Karangdjati
Kwadunganlor
Ngrambe                   Djogorogo
Ngawi                     Paron
Magetan                      Magetan                   Pontjol (desa parang)
Panekan
Gorang-Gareng             Takeran
Bendo
Lambejan
Maospati                  Karangredjo
Tulungagung                  Tiilungagung              Ngantru
Bojolangu
Kauman                    Karangredjo
Tjampurdarat              Besuki
Trenggalek Keaka                                        Gandusari
Watulimo (desa Prigi)
Karangan                  Pule
Tugu
Panggul                   Mudjungan
Malang
Pudjan                    Batu
Tumpang                   Pontjokusumo
Pakis
Kepandjen                 Ngadjum
Pag&k                     Donomuljo
Singosari                 Karangploso
Bululawang                Wadjak
Pasuruan                     Grato                     Redjoso
Lekok
Kraton (desa Ngempit)
Pandaan                   Gempol
Gondang Wetan             Puspo (desa Tosari)
Puspo



ANNEX 22
Page5 o0f 10
Regency                      Sub-district             Location
Pur-woredJo              Nongkodjadjar
Purworedjo (desa Purwasan)
Bangil                   Rembang
Probolinggo                  Paitan                   Matikan (desa Pronodjiwo)
Kraksaan                 Besuk
Wangkal                  Krutjil
Wonoasih                 Dring.
Tongas                   Sumbezicareng
LTmadJang                    Klakah                   Randuagung (desa Pronodjiwo)
Pasirian                 Tjandipuro
Josowilangun             Kunir
Kunir (desa Tukung)
Lumedjang                Sukodono
Bondowoso                    Bondowoso                Tegalazpel
Tjurahdami
Pradjekan                Tjermee
Tmanan                   Grudjukan
Pudjer
Panarulcan                   Asembagus                Ardjoso
Djangkar
Besuki                   Djatibanteng
Suboh
Situbondo                Pandji
Ponorogo                     Ponorogo                 Djenangan
Babatan
Sambit                   Sawo
Slakung (DiJebong)
Pulung                   Sooka
Sumoroto                 Sampung
Sukoredjo
Bandengan



ANNEX 22
Page tof 10
Regency                    Sub-district            Location
(Ponorogo)                 Tamansari-               laralc
Djetis
Patjitan                   Patjitan                Ardlosari
Kebonagung
Punung                   Donorodjo
Pringkuku
Tegalombo                Bandar
Kebonadalam
Igadiredjo               Sudimoro
Wonokerto
Tulakan (desa Kotro)
Kediri                     Modjo                   Modjo
GmVengredjo
Ganpengredjo (desa Ngasem)
Ngadiluwih              Wates
Keras
Kandat
Purwosari
Popar                    Pagu
Pare                     Kepung
Kandangan
Ngandjuk                   Ngandjuk                Sukomoro
Bagor
Kertosono                Ngrenggot
Lengkong                 Redjoso
Ngluju
B:Litar
Lodojo                   Kanigoro
Srengat                  Garun
Wlingi                   Panaggungredjo
Wates (desa
Suruhwadang)
Udanamn
Ponggok
Doko



AN=E 22
Page 7 of 10
;Sub-distrit            Location
Djember                    Wlhiuhan                  Karangdurend
Ambulu (desa Sumberredjo)
Ambulu
DJember                  Ardjasa
Ardjasa (desa Djelbuk)
Majang                  Sempolan
Majang
Tanggul                 Sumberbaru
Kalisat                  Susmberdjambe
Rambipudji              Magi
Puger                   Guaukmas
Kentjong (desa Wringintelu)
Puger
Banjuwangi                   Rogodjampi              Singodjeruk (desa Sragi)
Tegal (desa Kurwokardjo)
Srono
Ban juwangi             Onagah'
Genteng                 Glemaor
Pamekcasan                  Pamekasan                Propo
Warn                     Batumamner (Temburu)
Sampang                     Ketapang                 Banjuater
Tardjun                 Djengerik
Kedundung
Sumenep                     Batang                   Batang
Ambunten                Pasorggsongan
Amnbunten
Bangkalan                    Bangkalaf               Bumeh
Kamal



ANNEX 22
Page T of 10
B. Suraba a
Sub-District                                 Location
Semampir                                     Karang Tembok
Peban Tjantian                               Peban Tjantian
Bubutan                                      Kalibutuh
Simnokerto                                   Simokerto
Gubeng                                       Gubeng
Rungkut                                      Rungkut
Genteng                                      Genteng
Sawahan                                      Mongojoso
Tegalsari                                    Pedigiling
Wonotjolo                                    Djemur
Karang Pilang                                Karang Pilang
C. DJakarta
1. At sub-district level with 10 beds
Sungai Bambu
Tamibora
Pulo Gadung
Pasar Minggu
Mampang Prapatan
Kampung Ambon
Pondok Pinang
Gandaria
2. At sub-district level with 20 beds
Palmerah
Bendungan Hilir
Kelurahan Rawabangke
Senen
Sawah Besar
Kramat Djati
Kebajoran Lama
Kodja
Tandjung Priok



AX    22
Page 9 of 10
D. Bali
1. At sub-district level
Location
Petang                                        Pajangan
Belahkiuh                                     Tegallalang
Kuta                                          Gianjar
Denpasar                                      Blahbatuh
BKIA Tabanan                                  Sukawati
Pupuan                                        Dawan
Penebel                                       Klungkung
Marga                                         Tembuku
Kediri                                        Bangli
Krambitan                                     Rendang
Sawan                                          mlapura
Kubutambahan                                  Sidemen
Sukasada                                      Bebandem
Bandjar                                       Abang
Buleleng                                      Kubu
Busungbiu                                     Melaja
Gerokgak                                      Perung
II. PARAMEDICAL SCHOOLS
1. Awduliary-Nurse Midwife Schools
East Java                                     Tuban
Magetan
Malang
Blitar
West Java                                     Rangkasbitung
Central Java                                  Kebumen
Djakarta                                      Sumber Waras
Husada
Bali                                          Denpasar
2. Nurse-Midwife School
East Java                                     Surabaja



ANNEX 22
Page 10 of 10.
III. TRAINING CENTERS
1. Provincial Family Planning Training Centers
Djakarta                      Bandung
Semarang                      Djogjakarta
Surabk j a                   Denpasar
2. Famil y Planning Sub-Training Centers
Djember
Malang
Madiun
Tjirebon
Sukabumi.
Bogor
Blitar
Banjumas
Temamggung
Ambarawa



ANNEX 23
REQUIREMENTS FOR IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS
Provincial Training Centers
a.   Staff                - Director, medical officer, senior nurse-
(Project additions     midwife, information officer, statisticlan,
underlined.)           health educator, librarian, two teaching
assistants for field training.
b.   Accommodation        -  Seo Annex 33 for schedule of accommodation.
c.   Transport            -  1 bus to carry 35 persons.
2 cars,
3 minibuses
d.   Equipment            -  1 film projector, 2 film strip projectors,
1 overhead projector, 1 set of silk screen
equipment,
1 set of photographic equipment,
1 electric duplicator,
1 set of artists' equipment,
1 public speaking equipment,
1 tape recorder (regular),
1 tape recorder (battery-operated),
1 video tape recorder with tapes and
accessories.
Subtraining Centers
a.   Staff                -  Principal, senior nurse-midwife, information
(Project additions     officer, teacher, assistant librarian, two
underlined.)           teaching assistants.
b.   Accommodation        -  See Annex 33 for schedule of accommodation.
c.   Transport            -  1 bus to carry 35 persons,
1 car,
3 minibuses
d.   Equipment            -  1 generator (2 1/2 Hp.),
1 16-mm. film projector
2 film strip projectors,
1 overhead film projector,
1 tape recorder (regular),
1 duplicator,
1 video tape recorder with tapes and
accessories.



ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 4
FAMILY PLANN;[NG FUNCTIONS OF PERSONNEL AT REGENCY LEVEL AND BELOW
A. Regency Level
MCH/FP Medical Officer
1.        The MCH/!FP medical officer should assist the administrative medical
officer in charge of the regency health administration in the overall control
and supervision of MCH/FP work, including administration. He would also be
responsible for coordinating the MCH and family planning work of all imple-
menting units in the regency. He would undertake regular tours to health
centers to supervis.e and support the MCH and family planning work.  He would
ensure the regular flow of family planning supplies and services to MCH/FP
centers, and promote and direct the field, as well as the hospital, post-
partum program in the regency.                                                 -
Supervisory Nurse-Midwife and Nurse-Midwife
2.        In the existing health services pattern, there is already a super-
visory midwife at tlhe regency level health administration. The supervisory
midwife works in th/ hospital and supervises the MCH work of the midwives and
their assistants. One nurse-midwife at this level should be added so that she
can relieve the supervisory midwife of her hospital work. The supervisory
midwife can then deirote attention to the supervisory guidance and support of
the nurse-midwives and ANMs working at MCH/FP centers in the regency. Her
functions should also include organizing and supporting postpartum programs,
assisting the kabupztten MCH/FP medical officer, and giving support and guidance
to voluntary agencies.
Statistical Assistant
3.        This person is responsible for collecting and compiling data from
\the records and reports of the MCH/FP centers in the regency and transmitting
t to the provincial and central NFPCB offices. He will also be responsible
fo the routine evaluation of MCH/FP services in the regency and for providing
the medical administrator with data for planning at this level.
Assistant Supervisor
4.        This worker could be chosen from the ranks of supervisory midwives,
midwifery teachers, public health nurses, social workers, and information
officers. The assistant supervisor is primarily responsible for the super-
vision, support, and guidance of field workers in the regency. Her respon-
sibilities should also include in-service training and orientation, as well
as population education (consultancy for the school system), at the regency
level.
B. District
MCH/FP Medical Officer
5.        The medical officer at the district MCH/FP centers in East Java



ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 4
supervises all family planning workers (both medical and nonmedical) in his
area of jurisdiction, in addition to being responsible for general adminis-
tr-ion, clinical referrals of contraceptive acceptors with complications,
hospital beds in the health center, and general health administration.
Through the services of the health controller, he would also guide and super-
vise other health workers such as malaria workers, yaws workers, and vaccina-
tors, etc., in their supportive role in family planning program implementation.
Supervisory Midwife
6.        The supervisory midwife at district level in East Java will be
mainly concerned with supervisory support and guidance to nurse-midwives in
her area for an integrated MC1H/FP program. This supervision is very important
because of the large amount of clinical and educational responsibility of
nurse-midwives at the sub-district MCH/FP centers and also because there are too
many sub-districts (20) in a regency for one medical officer to manage.
Group Leader
7.        One group leader is required for every five nonmedical field workers.
He would work under the overall control and supervision of the assistant supervisor
at the regency level, even though he may cone under the administrative control
of the medical officer at the health center to which he is assigned.
8.        The group leader's primary function is family planning program
implementation. His responsibilities include:
a.   Supervisory support and guidance to nonmedical field workers;
b.   Responsibility for organizing, promoting, and executing mass
communication activities with the help and participation of
the social work assistants, information officers, and other
official and nonofficial personnel; and
c.   Responsibility for planning, organizing, and conducting village
leader training sessions with the help of nurse-midwives, ANMs,
nonmedical field workers, and other supportive workers at the
sub-district level and below.
C. Sub-District
Nurse-Midwife
9.        One nurse-midwife per 44,000 population (one per sub-district health
center in the rural areas, and four per health center in Djakarta) is required.
Primary functions include provision of contraceptive services such as the IUD
insertion and distribution of contraceptive pills, and overall supervision of
ANMs and all family planning activities. Her responsibilities comprise:
a.   Residence in the town or village where the sub-district-level
health center is located;
b.   Direct responsibility for providing contraceptive services,
such as IUD insertions and contraceptive pills;



ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 4
c.   Responsibility, with the help of administrative assistance, for
reports and returns of program progress (number of acceptors in
the sub-district area, and characteristics such as age, parity,
period of adoption, discontinuance, etc.);
d.   Participation in community educational activities such as
orientation for village leaders and taking the leadership in
organizing training in cooperation with field workers, group
leaders, and social workers;
e.   Visitation on a scheduled basis, to ANMs to provide on-the-job
supervisory support and guidance;
f.   Responsibility for all MCH work (immunizations, school health
work,,as well as antenatal, natal, and postnatal cases) in the
immediate vicinity of the center;
g. --esponsibility for training, supervising. and.gyding the dukuns
in her area; and
h.   Collection and compilation of information on births from dukuns
and community leaders.
Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
10.       The auxiliary nurse-midwife (ARM) is not a complete replacement for
the nurse-midwife who is more highly trained. The ANM would perform basic
MCH and family planning functions under the overall supe-rvision of a rnurse-
midwife. Phased continuing professional education is required to help ANMs
qualify as full nurse-midwives over a period of time determined by the demands
of the MCH and family planning program.  Two ANMs should be added to the
present staff of one midwife for each sub-district-level health center. They
would be under the administrative control of the midwife, but assigned to a
defined area and given responsibility for all MCH and family plannirg activities
in that area. To be effective and efficient, the ANM must live in her juris-
dictional area. The duties of an ANM, similar to those of the nurse-midwife,
include:
a.   Direct responsibility for providing contraceptive services such
as the storage and distribution of contraceptive pills;
b.   Responsibility for follow-up care of contraceptive acceptors
and their referral, where necessary;
c.   Participation in family planning educ-tional activities such as
orientation for village leaders;
d.   Assistance in the preparation of the necessary reports and
records;
e.   Responsibility for MCH work such as immunizations, school health
work, as well as antenatal, natal, and postnatal cases; and
f.   Assistance in training and supervising dukuns.



ANIEX 24
Page 4 of 4.
Non-medical Field Worker
11,       One nonmedical field worker per 10,000 population (4-5 per sub-
district) in rural areas, and about 25-30 per sub-district in Djakarta) is
required. While the nonmedical field worker's primary function is educational,
his responsibilities would include:
a.   Residence in his jurisdictional area, but administratively
assigned to the sub-district-level health center;
b.   Responsibility for preparing and revising the list of "eligible
couples" in villages in his area; this list should also be available
at the sub-district-level health center for periodical evaluatory
purposes
c.   Motivation of eligible couples through family-centered face-to-
face education;
d.   Identification of interested influential leaders in the comrmunity
and provision of education through individual contact, group
techniques, and orientation training, and assistance through
these leaders to help target couples recognize small family size
as desirable and adopt contraception;
e.   Assistance in providing adequate follow-up sessions which include
dispelling doubts about contraceptive methods, and recognizing
complications and referring them to the nearest health center for
proper treatment;
f.   Maintenance of simple records of eligible couples and acceptors
including continuous and accurate information of births and deaths
(especially infant deaths) collected from dukuns, village officials,
and others;
g.   Assistance in other MCH activities such as immunization, mothers'
classes, and antenatal education, etc.;
h.   In the field postpartum program, responsibility for reporting
possible acceptors (antenatal cases) to the health centers, and
educating acceptors for the postpartum program; and
i.   Assistance in distributing conventional contraceptives.
Social Worker Assistant and
Information Officer
12.       While the social worker assistant and information officer are not
primary workers in family planning, they do have, however, very important
roles to play in the identification and orientation of village leaders. They
should be involved in planning and executing mass communication activities
such as dramas, puppet shows, and public meetings at the sub-district level
and below.



ANNEX 25
Page 1 of 6
RECOMMENDED CURRICULA FOR IN-SERVICE TRAINING
OF FAMILY PLANNING WORKERS
Introduction
1.        In-service training is not an attempt at comprehensive professional
preparation of workers, but is intended to train workers to develop knowledge
and skills for the performance of critical functions needed to take the pro-
gram towards predetermined goals. In family planning program implementation,
this means:
a.   stating in clear terms the goals of the program;
b.   identifying and describing the critical functions that each
category of worker is to perform in achieving the goal;
c.   preparing and pretesting a "job-oriented training curriculum"
for each category of worker;
d.   using the curricula for in-service training; and
e.   revising them by a continuing process of feed-back.
2.        The curricula for training family planning workers in Indonesia do
not, at present, satisfy these requirements; the content is focused on providing
information. It is recommended that a curriculum development and review com-
mittee is established at the NTC to ensure that training is relevant to the
functions of the various workers, which may change as the program progresses-.
To be effective, instructors and representatives of the program implementing
units should serve together to determine the curricula for in-service training.
3.        It is also recommended that the NTCs and PTCs establish "field
demonstration and study areas" in which an MCH/FP program could be demonstrated
and used by: -
a.   training centers for "skill practice"; and
b.   instructors (just like the operation theater in teaching of surgery
to the medical students), to improve the professional growth of
the training faculty and give them the opportunity to make training
program-oriented.
These study areas would also be used to:
a.   demonstrate program effectiveness to administrators;
b.   try out new methodologies in program development as well as
training; and also
c.   promote small program-oriented studies for program improvement.



MNNEX 25
Page 2 of 6
Curricula for Non-Medical Field Workers and Group Leaders
4.        The period of training would be 15 working days, and the curricula
should iinclude the following:
a.   Introduction to family planning program in Indonesia -- its
necessity, objectives, goals, and program implementation at
various levels;
b.   The role of the field worker     the family planning program
including detailed job description;
c.   The knowledge and skills necessary for the field worker to
satisfy his job function needs;
d.   Lectures and group discussions to help the field worker gain
the required knowledge; this may be supplemented by using
films and filmstrips.
e.   Skill practice in the clinic and demonstration area, as well
as field practice to acquire sufficient skills required of a
field worker, e.g., how to identify interested influential leaders,
how to conduct a family interview for face-to-face education, and
how and what records and reports to get, etc.;
f.   Emphasis on the most critical functions of a field worker;
g.   Field worker's role in an integrated MCH and family planning
program, especially his workirg relationship with the ANM and
midwife;
h.   Community profile of the village and general and health adminis-
tration of village, sub-district, regency, province, and central
governments in Indonesia;
i.   Religion and family planning;
j.   Field-oriented postpartum program;
k.   Methods of contraception, their use, effectiveness, and side-
effects, etc.; and
1.   Elementary human anatomy and physiology of the reproductive system.
5.        Training for the field worker should also include sessions on super-
vision (both knowledge and skill practice), use of mass media (dramas, puppet
shows, etc.) at local level, organization, and conduct of short orientation
sessions for village leaders, and the use of public speaking equipment, films,
strip projectors, etc.
6.        At least 50% of the training should be field-oriented -- that is,
demonstration and skill practice, etc.



ANNEX 25
Page 3 of 6
Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives, Nurse-
Midwives, and Supervisory Midwives
7.        Period of training required is 15 days, and the curriculum should
include the following:
a.   Introduction to family planning program in Indonesia -- its
necessity, objectives, goals, and program implementation at
various levels;
b.   The roles of the ANM, nurse-midwife, and supervisory midwife in the
family planning program, including detailed job description;
c.   The knowledge and skills necessary for the ANM or midwife to
satisfy her job function needs;
d.   Lecture and group discussions to help the trainee gain the
reiuire_dknow.edge;-
e.   Methods of contraception, their use, effectiveness, contra-
indications, complications or side-effects and their treatment,
if simple;
f.   Skill practice in clinic for IUD insertion, pill distribution,
follow-up in the homes, treatment of simple side-effeLts, and
determination of referral cases;
g.   Skills in interviewing patients in a clinic;
h.   Knowledge and skills for maintenance of records and reports
relevant to MCH and family planning and their relevance to the
program; (Sessions may include training in simple methods of
evaluation of program -- continuation rates and pregnancy rates,
etc.)
i.   Knowledge and skills on simple administrative methods and office
management;
j.   Field-oriented programs as well as hospital postpartum programs
including the skills and knowledge required of midwives;
k.   Community education in family planning; and
1.   Elementary human anatomy and physiology of the reproductive system.
8.        Training of midwives and supervisory midwives should, in addition,
include knowledge and skill practice sessions on supervision, training methods,
and curricula for training of dukuns; vital statistics and their relevance to
family planning program; management of complications of various methods of
contraception; office management in maintenance and transmission of reports
and records; and relevance and. interpretation of the use of these data in the
family planning program implementation.



ANNEX 25
Page 4 of 6
Medical Workers
(Working in Health Centers and Hospitals)
9.        Period of training required is 15 working days, and the curriculum
should include the following:
a.   Introduction to family planning program in Indonesia -- its
necessity, objectives, goals, and program implementation at
various levels;
b.   The role of the medical officer in the family planning program
including details of job description;
C.   Administrative procedures in the family planning program, including
office management, records and reports and their relevance to the
program, supply requisitioning, and transport management, etc.;
d.   Plan of action for implementing the family planning program at
local level, details of functions of each worker, and their role
in family planning work;
e.   Evaluation of MCH and family planning program at local levels --
data needed, their compilation, interpretation, and utilization
of such data for program improvement;
f.   Postpartum program -- both field-oriented and hospital-based;
g.   Family planning as an integral part of MCH services;
h.   Community  education in family planning;
i.   Religion and family planning;
j.   Methods of contraception, their use, effectiveness, side-effects
and complications, and their treatment; this area should include
training and practice in the clinic for IUD insertion, and the
physiology and pharmacology of contraceptive pills.
k.   Comprehensive revision of reproductive biology as a brief but
intensive course; and
1.   Supervision -- both theory and practice.
10.       At least 25% of the training time must be spent in the clinic anid
another 25% in field-oriented training.
Administrative Medical Officers and
Medical Officers in charge of MCH
and Family Planning at the Regency Level
11.       Period of training required is 30 working days.   Cturriculum should
include all areas suggested for the medical workers, plus the following:



ANNEX 25
Page 5 of 6
a.   Determination of targets and detailed program plan for integrated
MCH and family planning program for a regency;
b.   Economics and demography of population control and their practical
applications to program achievements at the regency, provincial
and nat,ional levels;
c.   Principles of program management, including personnel management,
budgeting, fiscal management, sociology of administration, systems
approach, programming-budgeting, review and replanning techniques,
and supervision in management, etc.;
d.   A full refresher course on up-to-date contraceptive technology;
e.   Basic principles of research methodology to enable trainee to under-
stand the value of research in the various aspects of the family
planning program;
f.   Multidisc4.plinary approach to family planning, why and how; and
g.   Nonclinical approach to population control.
Supportive Workers
(Social Workers, Information
Officers, and Health Workers, etc.
12.       Period of training required is 3 days, and the curriculum should
include the following:
a.   Introduction to family planning program in Indonesia -- its justi-
fication, objectives, goals, and the organizational structure of
the integrated MCH/FP program at various levels;
b.   The role of social workers/information officers/health workers in
family planning and how exactly they can support the program as a
part of their regular duties and also the special functions they
should perform to support the various components of family plan-
ning program implementation;
c.   Elementary and very simple description of human reproductive
anatomy and physiology;
d.   Elementary knowledge of the IUD and contraceptive pills; and
e.   Religion an family planning.
Dukuns
13.       Period of training required is 3 days, or 6 afternoon sessions.
The curriculum should include the following:
a.   Family planning and its justification for socio-economic improvement
of the Indonesian family;



ANNEX 25
Page 6 of 6.
b.   Religion and family planning;
c.   Roles of ANM, field workers, and midwife in MCH and family planning
activities at the village level;
d.   Elementary knowledge about human reproductive system, IUDL and
contraceptive pills, possible side-effects due to contraception,
and how to recognize and refer them;
e.   Role of dukuns in case referral for IUD, contraceptive pills, and
conventional contraceptives; and
f.   Importance and procedure for notifying midwives and/or ANMs of
births.
Village Leaders
14..      The orientation program for village leaders is mainly intended to
help them to:
a.   recognize the need for the FP program in their village;
b.   understand the components of the program at this level; and
c.   give their active support by their involvement in program
implementation in the village.
15.       They should also be given enough information to be able to support
the education of eligible couples in the community to accept family planning.
A one-day orientation program should be scheduled for a time and place agreed
upon in advance by the leaders. In addition to family planning workers cind
suppartive workers, formal leaders like the ulemas and village-level religious
leaders, village officials, and village headmen should be invited to<te_wnta-
tion sessions in which the dukuns could play a very i-nportant role6.    .(age
leaders should include those identified by field workers as interesrEtLid
influential leaders. Each orientation session should not have more than 30
participants. In large villages, more than one session may be required. The
agenda for the session need not be structured. It should begin by asking
leaders to identify community needs in their own village, to which the need
for family planning should then be related. It is always advantageous to
provide treatment for minor ailments before launching a village FP program.
During the session, the workers should give information to leaders on the
justification of family planning on such topics as Lamily welfare, for health
and economic improvement, religion and family planning, as well as simple
facts about the IUP and contraceptive pills.



ANNEX 26
Page 1 of 29
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH
This annex contains the following sections:
A.   Evaluation and Management Information System;
B.   Implementation of FP Research and Evaluation;
C.   Operational Studies and Other Essential Research;
D.   Program for Study and Training in Demography at the
University of Indonesia;
E.   Development of the Population Study Center of the Indonesian
Institute of Sciences;
F.   Field Postpartum Program;
G.   Technical Assistance Requirements;
H.   Summary of Component Inputs; and
I.   Implementation.
A. Evaluation and Management Information System
2.        In its present form, the evaluation and management information
system of the NFPCB is unable to realize its potential importance to program
success.  Divided in terms of both function and supervision, it lacks com-
petent technical direction and status within the overall organization and is,
therefore, not fully effective. If the system is adequately to fulfill its
function, it is necessary to merge the present bureaus of reporting and
recording, and research and evaluation under one, technically competent
director of at least deputy chairman status.
3.        Strong, assertive leadership is required to effect the following
changes which are vital to the adequate functioning of the system:
a.   The establishment of a research and evaluation policy which is
consistent with overall program policies and objectives. The
links between research, evaluation, and program operations need
to be spelled out in detail and a decision must be taken regard-
ing the proper balance and priorities among large-scale descrip-
tive/publicity surveys, operational and basic research projects,
service statistics, and evaluative (cost-benefit/cost-effectiveness)
studies.
b.   The reallocation of program inputs and redirection of program
emphasis on a national or local basis, consistent with recom-
mendations drawn from research/evaluation findings.



ANNEX 26
Page 2 of 29
c.   The rationalizationcnd further simplification of the present
reporting and recording procedures. Although the assumption
by the NFPCB of the responsibility for collecting FP service
data appears justified (i) in the light of the fact that
health service clinics comprise only some 40% of those now
reporting, and (ii) in the absence of a major revision of the
total reporting and recording procedures of health services,
much more attention must be directed towards upgrading the
capability to assess service data at the provincial level.
This is necessary to facilitate identification of program
successes or failures at the operational level, and their
implications for corrective action, or further inquiry. Be-
sides the provision of additional trained staff at provincial
level, the central NFPCB should also develop a supervisory
team to assist and upgrade provincial staff capability.
d.   The assumption of a strong and effective leadership role in
research and evaluation based on policy priorities and problems
identified by service data. At present, the NFPCB is reliant
upon the recommendations of a research review panel comprised of
members of the various implementing research units. Although
the participation of the research unit directors is to be com-
mended, reliance can lead to the acceptance of research projects
less in line with the priority needs of the program than with
the interests of the participating organizations, and should be
minimized.
e.   Present budget allocations in this area are tied to specific
projects, i.e., no provision is made for studies that have not
been planned at least one year in advance. Although it is
desirable to have major research/evaluation projects planned well
in advance, management information of a crucial nature often arises
from short-term studies undertaken in direct and rapid response to
a specific program or management problem of an "emergency" nature.
A small proportion of the research evaluation budget needs to be
allocated for such short-term studies.
f.   In-country research seminars are valuable not only for providing
a sense of professional solidarity (as an incenti4ve to perform
research) to those who direct and participate in research activity,
but also for providing a forum through which positive and fully
docujmented program aspects can be publicized. The value and posi-
tive influence of such seminars on the political sphere should not
be underestimated. Although the responsibility for organizir.g
such seminars might lie outside the research and evaluation section,
funds should be made available for travel, honoraria, publication
of seminar proceedings, etc.



ANNEX 26
Page 3 of 29
B. Implementation of Family Planning Research and Evaluation
4.        Expressed in economic terms, Indonesia's FP program is basically
one of supply. Program focus is limited to the delivery of services, and
the demand side of the program has received little or no attention. There
is nothing unusual in this approach; virtually all national FP programs are
based on extension and improvement of contraceptive services, and the exist-
ing structure of demand for those services has received only token attention.
5.        Implicit within this stereotyped delivery system approach to the
population problem is the assumption that the problem is due to excess or
unwanted births which can be eliminated or drastically reduced by making
contraceptive technology and services widely available. Unfortunately, the
experience of established FP programs suggests this is not the case; virtual-
ly every established program is suffering from critical underutilization of
FP clinics and services. The results promised by those who advocate total
concentration on the delivery system simply have not been forthcoming. Even
Taiwan cannot demonstrate unequivocally that the program itself has brought
about a definite, measurable reduction in the fertility rate of the nation.l/
6.        The question is why do some societies express low fertility rates
and others express high fertility rates? Efficient delivery of contraceptive
technology and services is only one reason. That it is not a sufficient
reason is made clear by the fact that the U.S. and Western European societies
experienced their massive fertility declines prior even to the existence of
modern contraceptive technology. The necessary and sufficient reasons must,
therefore, lie in the "demand" structure of society, within the motivations
of individual couples and the relationships between these and family size.
Although this area has been the object of increased interest of late2/,
little more than conjecture has been directed towards providing an increased
understanding of the nature and structure of these motivations and relation-
ships. Yet it must be clear that any attempt to alter or influence the FP
demand structure of a population must be based on'a thorough understanding
of that structure.
7.        In all aspects of research and evaluation, except the collection
of service data, the NFPCB acts as a coordinating agency. Research studies
and evaluation projects which the NFPCB deems necessary are contracted out
to governmental and private research institutions for the collection and
analysis of data. Currently, there are five institutions through which
family planning research and evaluation studies may be contracted. They
are: Indonesia Planned Parenthood Association (IPPA), National Institute
of Economic & Social Research (LEKNAS), the Demographic Institute of the
University of Indonesia, the Institute of Public Health (IPH), and Survey &
Business Research Indonesia (SUBURI). All are located in Djakarta except
IPH, which is located at Surabaja in the province of East Java. Each of
these iListitutions has its own particular and varied research skills, com-
mitments, and areas of research interest, although each is related formally
1/ Dudley Kirk, in a paper entitled "Methods and Results of Surveys for
Evaluation of FP", presented to the meeting of the International Union
for the Scientific Study of Population, London, September 1969; pp. 4-5.
2/ Cf Berelson,B.,"Beyond FP" in Studies in FP, No. 38, February 1969.



ANNEX 26
Page 4 of 29
to and has had experience with the field of family planning.   A brief sum-
mary statement of the present capability and potential contribution of each
of these institutions in terms of acceptable contract research it might
undertake for the NFPCB over the period of the project follows:
Indonesia Planned Parenthood Association (IPPA)
This is a private, voluntary organization which is funded largely
by the IPPF. In the past, IPPA has demonstrated a facility for
suggesting practical, and timely, problems to be researched; it
is to be hoped IPPA will continue to fulfill this function. Its
role in family planning has been reduced (by the expanded govern-
ment role) largely to training of family planning personnel. It
is recommended that IPPA limit its implementation efforts in re-
search and evaluation to the area of training, e.g., evaluation
of the effectiveness of present courses of training, demonstration
of differential effectiveness of various techniques of static, and
in-service and field training.
National Institute of Economic & Social Research (LEKNAS)
The institute is one of eleven institutes of the Indonesian Insti-
tute of Sciences (LIPI), established by the Government to promote
and coordinate scientific research. As a government institute,
LEKNAS's primary responsibility is to conduct studies and research
to provide support for national planning operations, and to assess
and evaluate government development activities. The particular
structure of LEKNAS is conducive to multidisciplinary research
projects because it assembles within one institute representatives
of the social sciences and economics, organized into two major
divisions -- the Social Sciences Division and the Economics Division.
At present, the research staff of the Social Sciences Division con-
sists of two sociologists, one political scientist, one anthropolo-
gist, two demographers, and one historian; the Economics Division
has seven economists of various specializations.
A Population Studies Center (PSC) was created as a separate body
of the Social Sciences Division in September 1969. The objectives
of the PSC are to:
i.   conduct basic and applied research in the field of population
studies;
ii.   undertake such demographic research as can be utilized by the
Government in the formulation of social and economic policies
and development programs;
iii.   evaluate the results of government population programs to
obtain more efficient methods in achieving government objectives;
iv.   carry out demographic research as required by government agencies
which do not possess the necessary personnel and facilities;
v.   cooperate with other institutes and agencies in Indonesia, as
well as abroad, in the field of population studies; and



ANNEX 26
Page 5 of 29
vi.   provide library services to demographers and other scholars
in related fields, and to the general public interested in
population studies.
The objective of the Center is to become a center for multidisci-
plinary research in population studies. At present, it is staffed
with a demographer as the Head, and two research associates (a
demographer and an anthropologist). There are plans to recruit
six additional professional staff members. The Center will also
use other LEKNAS staff members, and other research workers in the
country, for the execution of specific research activities.
Demographic Institute, University of Indonesia
The Demographic Institute is of key importance in the future deve-
lopment of demographic research and training in Indonesia, and
hence to the development of a national FP research capability.
The charge of the Institute is to conduct scientific research in
the field of population, to offer training in demography to other
interested parties, and to assist governmental bodies in demographic
research. The Institute is under capable and technically sound
direction. It has embarked upon an ambitious course of providing
training in demography to 100 individuals associated with academic
and research institutions throughout Indonesia. This program will
utilize the full capabilities of the Institute until approximately
1974, and it is unlikely that the Institute will be able to -- or
should -- undertake any research of significant scope for the family
planning program until that time. Details of assistance required
are shown in Section D of this annex.
Institute of Public Health (IPH), Surabaia
The IPH has two broad divisions, one concerned with training and
one with research and development. Within the latter division is
located the Demographic Section, the express charge of which is to
undertake research in the social and operational aspects of family
planning as a public health problem. The Demographic Section has
been able to generate and implement research of an applied, emi-
nently practical nature, of direct relevance to family planning
program operations. In the process, a small core of experienced
research staff has been built up, which is experienced in a variety
of research methodologies. Although the survey method has been
heavily relied upon, participant-observational and "casual" inter-
view techniques have also been used. The IPH could assume respon-
sibility for the implementation of a major portion of the operational
research requirements of the NFPCB.
Survey & Business Research (SUBURI), Indonesia
SUBURI is one of several independent marketing and business
organizations located in Djakarta, which have been providing
governmental and private business organizations with crucial
management information derived from a wide variety of research
studies. SUBURI has a permanent staff of 18 and a Djakarta
project staff of 90, plus a corps of trained project staff and
supervisors in other major Indonesian cities. The interests
and expertise of this institution are broad -- operations
research, management feasibility studies, KAP surveys, systems
analysis, and cost-benefit/cost-effectiveness analyses.



ANNEX 26
Page 6 of 29
C. Operational Studies and Other Essential Research
8.        In developing a program by which FP services are delivered through
an existing MCH system, it is essential to know whether the existing facilities
and staff are adequate for the additional load. Several problems have already
emerged in Indonesia which suggest that the integration of FP and MCH is strain-
ing the delivery capacity of a system which is, perhaps, inadequate even for
routine MCH services. It is important to identify these problems and make pro-
vision for their study toisolate the causes and recommend solutions. Of course,
it is equally important that the scope of research focus is not limited to the
delivery system itself; research in those areas outside the delivery system
but which have direct program relevance is also considered essential. The
mission considers that the following problems require urgent study:
a.   Study of Job Functions of FP Workers
Most FP workers will carry out FP duties in addition to their routire
jobs. To establish whether work loads are feasible and to provide
information for adequate training curricula and essential personnel
data (e.g., salary assessments), a study of the job functions of all
FP primary and supportive workers in both NFPCB and impLementing
units is required. Within this category, two group.s should receive
special and immediate attention -- midwives and field workers. The
field worker is a new category of personnel and will comprise a large
and important component of the program. For these reasons, and since
field worker training is still very much in progress, a critical com-
parison of job function and job description is necessary. In addition,
it is felt that a study to identify the barriers to effective field
worker performance, including the attitudes of the field worker
toward FP, is necessary.
The midwife, of course, is the key person in delivery of FP services.
Preliminary results of a very small study indicate that up to 60%
of the midwife's time is spent keeping records; a more comprehensive
study is required to document this fact, and to determine how much
of this burden is due to FP record-keeping duties. If true, such a
study could be used to revise the total record-keeping system of the
health services, and of the NFPCB. This would be vital to the effect-
ive delivery of services in the event of the increased utilization of
services expected from project inputs.
b.   Study of Ways and Means to Increase MCH
and Maternity Facility Utilization
FP services are to be provided through MCH facilities said to be
underutilized, and through maternity facilities that are quite
definitely underutilized, i.e., with delivery rates well below the
acceptable rate of 60 deliveries per bed annually. Quite clearly,
it is in the interest of a combined MCH/FP program to increase
utilization of both MCH and maternity facilities to the maximum.



ANNEX 26
Page 7 of 29
There are indications that the MCH facilities, e.g., antenatal and
postnatal checkuips, are more heavily utilized than maternity faci-
lities. A study is urgently required to assess general under-
utilization and specific differential utilization, since motivation
towards family planning acceptance is particularly high among
recently-delivered women in hospitals and clinics, The study
should consider the location of clinics and their human and phy-
sical environment as factors in determing optimum usage. It
should consider the possible advantages of mobile against static
clinics. The following possible reasons for underutilization
might be examined:
i.   Traditional trust in local dukuns;
ii.   Reluctance to leave home and be separated from husband and
children;
iii.   Inadequacies in the personal or technical aspects of MCH
services;
iv.   Fear of hospitals, clinics, and/or unattractive surroundings;
v.   The fees charged for a clinic or hospital delivery; and
vi.   The private practice of medical and paramedical personnel and
its influence upon clinic attendance.
c.   Comparison of Fully-Integrated vs. Semi-Integrated FP Services
At present, FP is integrated with MCH only in that the services are
provided in the same buildings; the great majority of clinics offer
FP services only on certain days of the week, and not on the same
days MCH services are offered. An experimental study is required to
determine whether or not this practice of separate service is pre-
ferred by the client; if not, to identify the barriers to truly
integrated services (e.g., preparation and maintenance of all the
paraphernalia required for generalized service necessitates a sig-
nificantly greater and unrealistic effort on the part of the midwife).
d.   Preproject Implementation Baseline Survey
In order to evaluate the impact of the national family planning
program on the values and fertility rates of Indonesians, it is
imperative to know with some accuracy what these values and rates
are at the present time. To this end, it is imperative that a
large-scale national sample survey be mounted as soon as possible.
Such a survey would provide a baseline of information against which
future studies of a similar nature could be compared to measure the
changes in these two crucial areas wrought over a period of time by
the total program. In addition, such a study would provide baseline
data against which the effectiveness of differential program inputs
could be compared; and since IDA project inputs are not to be spread



ANNEX 26
Page 8 of 29
evenly throughout Java, such information will play a vital role
in the evaluation of the effect of the IDA project inputs vis-a-
vis the national program inputs.
e.   Basic Research with Policy Implication Beyond the Delivery System
To date, all of the ongoing, planned and suggested FP research in
Indonesia is focused on the "supply" side of the program, i.e.,
directed towards the delivery system. This is not an inappropriate
focus, since the FP program as pcesently conceived has limited it-
self to delivery of services, and the measure of the program will
be the impact of inputs into the delivery system. For example, the
field worker input will be evaluated in post hoc terms, by calcula-
ting the number of FP acceptors due directly to their efforts.
However, it is of utmost importance that the potential impact of
such a supply-based program be investigated, i.e., is it feasible
and realistic to limit inputs only to the delivery system side,
or should inputs also be directed toward increasing the demand for
FP among the population?
Increased inputs into the supply side of the program will not
necessarily result in an increased utilization of those inputs.
For example, the whole concept of field workers is based on the
assumption that a demand for FP exists, but little is known as to
the extent or structure of the demand. There is undoubtedly a
point beyond which increased inputs into the delivery system, e.g.,
field workers, will result in diminishing returns. It would be
preferable to know that point in advance, for, beyond this point,
society must choose between increasing population pressures or
instituting program measures which directly affect demand for FP,
e.g., increased and varied incentives to acceptors, and the alter-
ation of those laws which directly or indirectly affect fertility
such as age at marriage, child labor laws, social security measures,
taxation, etc. In order to plan for such eventualities, a success-
ful FP program will examine those factors which affect the demand
for FP with as much care as those which affect the delivery system
itself.
Virtually nothing is known about the extent or structure of demand
for FP in Indonesia today, except that large families are preferred.
Why this is so has yet to be investigated; yet a knowledge and
understanding of fertility determinants are crucial to (i) an
estimation of the potential of a program limited to inputs into a
delivery system, and (ii) identification and/or isolation of those
specific high fertility motivations which might be countered or
neutralized by program inputs "beyond the delivery system."
f.   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of the Program
The IDA project is comprised of a number of specific inputs into
Indonesia's FP system. The recommended mix of these inputs is
considered to be optimum based on available data. However, since
the available data are sketchy, it will be necessary periodically
to evaluate this mix in the light of the actual experience of the
program. Cost-effectiveness analysis is one method whereby program
inputs can be related to actual program performance, i.e., it



ANNEX 26
Page 9 of 29
provides data basic to decisions regarding redirection of resources
from input units which are contributing little to program success
to those which are effecting rapid gains. Certain conceptual
problems are associated with-the application of cost-effectiveness
analysis to FP programs, usually having to do with how inputs and
outputs are defined and how program outputs are measured. Never-
theless, this aspect of program evaluation cannot be ignored, and
the fact that the various Indonesian provinces will receive dif-
ferential inputs should facilitate such evaluation.
g.   Incentive Systems
In order to frame an effective policy towards the possible use of
incentive systems to accelerate the acceptance of family planning
by the community, pilot studies are required to test the social
and administrative consequences of various incentive schemes,
such as adopter and diffuser incentives, education bonds, and
bonds as an insurance in old age case.
h.   Other Essential Research
i.   Midwifery Attrition
Data on attrition rates during midwifery training (calculated
at 40%) and after graduation (estimated at 10% annually) are
inadequate. Course attrition may be due, among other things,
to erroneous admission criteria, inadequate (or nonexistent)
hostel accommodation, or the need to pay fees and a correspond-
ing lack of training allowances. In building new midwifery
schools, it is necessary to maAimize their effectiveness by
considering the quality as well as quantity of students.   A
study of attrition rates with implications for their moderation
is required.
ii.   IUD and Pill Continuation Rates and Incidence of Side-Effects
Little reliable data are available regarding either continuation
rates or incidences of side-Lffects among IUD and pill acceptors.
Since follow-up of acceptors who fail to return to the clinic is
lacking, official program data reflect the experience of women
who return regularly for check-ups and/or supplies, and so are
misleading. For example, IUD retention rates calculated from
clinic data indicate a retention rate of some 92% at the end of
12 months and 86% for 24 months. Small, localized studies
demonstrate continuation rates not much lower than this, but
are suspect because of a high percentage of lost-to-follow-up
cases. Accurate data regarding continuation and side-effects
are necessary to properly focus program effort. For example,
if continuation rates are indeed high and side-effects low,
then program personnel can safely direct their efforts toward
recruiting new acceptors; if, however, the reverse is true,
then intensive follow-up of new acceptors is the effort called
for, since only continued protection results in reduced fertility.



ANNEX 26
Page 10 of 29
iii.   Distribution Channels for Conventional Contraceptives
Experience in other countries (e.g., India) indicates that given
efficient, adequately supplied channels for the distribution of
conventional contraceptives, the number of FP acceptors can be
increased considerably with limited additional program inputs.
Current proposals in Indonesia limit distribution to existing
health, particularly MCH, outlets. Studies of distribution
logistics are needed, as well as studies of possibilities for
extending cutlets and widening promotional opportunities.
iv.   Experimental-Demonstration Areas
As new ideas for program operations approaches are generated or
grow out of program experience, they will need to be tested for
feasibility and acceptability before incorporation into the
official program. Thus, it is essential that the NFPCB accept
the concept of experimental or demonstration areas wherein new
program approaches can be put to the test of actual practice.
FP programs which do not provide areas for the pretesting of
new or revised program operations soon become static and re-
sistant to change. Few administrators will accept the intro-
duction of new approaches unless they have already been proven
in other programs or demonstration projects.
Two general studies which should be examined on an experimental
basis in Indonesia are the following: First, linking nutrition
inputs to FP and/or MCH attendance in order to increase utili-
zation of facilities and, therefore, numbers of acceptors. The
second general study has to do with experimentation with incen-
tives, perhaps in several areas -- adjustment in amount of
incentive; incentives to FP acceptors who recruit new acceptors;
recompense for income lost (e.g., 3-5 days' wages) while client
recuperates from sterilization procedures; provision of free
maternity facilities and food to mothers who intend to adopt
contraception; etc.
9.        These studies must be undertaken as soon as feasible.  They should be
initiated through the reorganized NFPCB Research and Evaluation Section, using
as far as possible the Indonesian research capability supported, as necessary,
by foreign expertise.  In order to strengthen the NFPCB to enable it to
coordinate such a research program effectively, the project provides for
essential additional staff including a social scientist, a demographer,
and an economist. Support in the form of additional equipment and vehicles
is also provided.



ANNEX 26
Page 11 of 29
D. Program for Study and Training in Demography,
University of Indonesia
10.       Indonesia has a critical need for demographers to undertake higher
level teaching and research in the fields of population and to assist in
analyzing demographic data required for social and economic development plans
and projects. The Government, seriously concerned with planned economic and
social development of the country, keenly feels and recognizes the need for
continuous research in population dynamics to provide bases for decision-
making and action programs in the diverse fields of human welfare. The
National Economic Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) has supported the creation or
strengthening of three institutes or agencies to undertake different special-
ized functions of research, training, and the coordination of action programs
in the field of population. These institutes or agencies are:
a.   Population Studies Center in Indonesian Institute of Science,
created in 1969 to conduct research on the socio-economic aspects
of population dynamics.
b.   Institute of Demography,
established in 1964 as a unit of the Faculty of Economics,
University of Indonesia; strengthened to train demographers
and promote teaching and research in demography in state
universities and subsequently in private universities.
c.   The National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB),
was established in 1970 to coordinate and implement national
population policy and action programs.
The Government is also actively interested in strengthening the Central
Bureau of Statistics to effect and ensure overall improvement in national
demographic statistics. Whereas the need for competent and well-trained
demographers is very substantial, only a few Indonesians are available with
such training and experience.
11.       The Institute of Demography at the 'University of Indonesia has drawn
up a crash trning program to produce in 5 years (1970-75) approximately five
demographer-faculty members in each of the 22 state universities of the country.
This scheme calls for training of demographers to be conducted in five batches.
The successful participants will be awarded academic certificates by the
university. The expenses for the training of the first batch of participants,
which covers a period of 15 mon:hs starting from June 1970, has been provided
by the Ford Foundation. The Population Council (New York) has provided a
grant of U.S.$10,000 to initiate the Institute's research program. Further-
more, the Australian National University is going to provide an expert to
assist in the teaching of demography, and the PopuiL.tion Council is planning
to make an expert available to assist in the implementation of the demographic
research program.



ANNEX 26
Page 12 of 29
12.       The objective of the Institute if Demography is to train a minimum
number of staff members (4-5) of all 22 state universities in order to:
a.   initiate coordinated demographic research in the provinces and
regions, and special areas of the country;
b.   introduce teaching of demography in the state universities in
the provinces; and
c.   provide consultative and technical support to country-wide
family planning action program.
13.       Details of the project are
a.   Technical Assistance
To augment the Institute's teaching staff, and to assist the
Director in guiding the participan&' research work, a senior
foreign adviser is needed. The adviser will be an academically
trained demographer with a complementary background in economics/
sociology or statistics. He should have 3-5 years' experience
in teaching and designing population research and sample surveys
as well as knowledge of computer data analysis. The Australian
National University is providing the Institute with a junior
expert to assist in the teaching of demography and in the over-
all programming and development of the Institute for the fall
semester of 1971 and for 2 years beginning in the fall of 1972.
The Population Council will provide an adviser on research
beginning early in 1972.
b.   Administrative Support
The estimate includes salaries for the Institute staff for a total
of 4 years. The rates are based upon those admitted by the Ford
Foundation for the first 15 months' duration of the project. To
carry out the instructional program, the Institute will need part-
time teachers on fee-for-service basis. Until the requested
laboratory equipment is purchased and installed, the Institute is
obliged to pay a rental charge for the use of the data processing
services of the Central Bureau of Statistics. Miscellaneous
provisions of office supplies have been estimated at recurring
U.S.$1,000 per annum.
C.   Fellowships
For subsistence during the period of training, each participant
will be paid a monthly subsistence stipend at the rate of Rp 25,000
per month (U.S.$60). The participants will be paid the exact cost
of transportation from their official base to Djakarta and return.



ANNEX 26
Page 13 of 29
d.   Equipment
In order to build up the minimum laboratory facilities for the
processing of data, the Institute will need the following equip-
ment:
2 Electric calculating machines
2 Manual calculating machines
4 Electric adding machines
4 Manual adding machines
2 Typewriters
2 Filing cabinLets.
e.   Transport
One minibus will be provided.
Estimates are shown in Section H of this annex.
E. Development of the Population Study Center
of the Indonesian iLnstitute of Sciences (LEKNAS)
14.       There is an urgent need in Indonesia for continuous research in
population which is capable of providing scientlfic bases for decision-
making, rormnulation of national policies, and planning for national and
regional development and population programs. For effective planning, a
continuing assessnent and evaluation of development plans and population
programs based on reliable data and analyses are essential. S'o far,
population research. activities have been substantial but of aTn ad hoc
nature. There have been few studies with a national coverage. The rapid
increase of population puts pressure on the decision-makers of the country
for new and improved data and analyses based on scientific research. It is
not the large size of the population of Indonesia alone which attracts
attention but the complexity of the problem also which demands intensive
and continuous investigation to provide the necessary scientific support
for the planining and implementation of programs designed to iimprove the
human situation in Indonesia.
15.       A description of the organization and functions of LEKNAS and the
PSC is provided in Section B of this annex. This component of the project
provides for the development of the PSC as a major multidisciplinary social
sciences-population research center in Indonesia. It includes assistanbce
specifically for the development of a considerably improved staff capability
and for research projects basic to the development of goverrmental population
plans and programs.



ANNEX 26
Page 14 of 29
16.       Keeping in view the research needs of the country and the consider-
ation for appropriate staff development in a planned manner, the following
general areas are the proper focus for specific, multidisciplinary research
projects to be undertaken by the PSC:
a.   The balance between population size, density, and available
resources;
b.   Factors underlying present patterns of transmigration and
urbanization;
c.   Direct and indirect relationships between family size and the
socio-economic well-being of the family; and
d.   Couple perceptions of the role FP plays in their achievement
of life goals.
17.       In order to effectively research specific aspects of the above
general areas, certain basic requirements must be fulfilled. First, research
of this basic nature will require a longitudinal approach and a close con-
tinuing association between the study population and the research staff.
Therefore, semi-permanent research areas whLich comprise a representative
sample of the country must be established. Such areas, through a once- or
twice-weekly canvass of all resident families would provide an accurate
registration of vital events and a mechanism for continuous monitoring of
the FP program. Through cooperation and coordination with the Demographic
Institute, it should be possible for the PSC to enlist the part-time services
of those who have been trained by the Demographic Institute and who are already
situated throughout Indonesia; thus the sample areas can be established and
maintained at considerably less expense than would be the case where local
expertise and supervision were lacking.
18.       The second basic requirement is that the nature of the specific
problem to be investigated must be allowed to determine the methodological
approach to data collection. The unique strength of the PSC lies fti the
multidisciplinary composition of its research staff. To utilize this staff
effectively, the unique and particular research methodologies of the various
disciplines comprising the PSC must be brought to bear on those problents to
which their application is appropriate.
19.       The PSC would direct specific attention to the following researchz
projects:
a.   Population Survey and Continuous Registration
of Vital Events in Sample Areas
Through a weekly canvass of each family in the sample area,
the following information will be provided: demographic,
economic and social characteristics of the sample population;



ANNEX 26
Page 15 of 29
accurate estimates of birth rates, death rates, migration
rates of population growth; and the incidences of pregnancy,
and spontaneous and indirect abortion.
b.   Population Implications of Migration and Urbanization
In view of the very uneven distribution of population in the
country, inquiry into the degree of population pressure and
out-migration in rural areas, and into urban areas in terms
of size, location, and growth contributions of net migration
is essential.
c.   Relationship Studies
Within the sample areas, systematic, cross-disciplinary efforts
will be directed toward analysis of the relationships among the
factors mentioned in (a) above, as well as between the above
factors of fertility, family size and structure, age at
marriage, farm size and practices, contraceptive practices,
transmigration, etc.
d.   Institutional Effects on Fertility
Studies both within and without the sample areas will be under-
taken to examine the pronatalist or antinatalist effects of
various social institutions, e.g., existing legal structure
(legal age at marriage, inheritance, laws, taxation, chiid
labor laws, etc.), traditions and customs (actual age at
marriage, child labor practices, etc.), extended and nuclear
family situations, and the differential role perceptions of
children as evidenced by families in rural and urban settings.
20.       Inputs of the project are:
a.   Technical Assistance
The PSC will require three foreign advisers during the project
period. One should be a senior adviser to help with the overall
development of the PSC and assist with the execution of research
projects. The others should be more directly concerned with the
research projects specified above. All advisers should be
capable of directing research, providing on-the-job training to
PSC staff, and conducting research seminars. Further details of
the necessary qualifications are given in Section G of this
annex. In addition, provision is made for short-term consultants
for specific research fields.
b.   Fellowships
The project makes provision for fellowsh.ips for training albroad
for members of the research staff at the rate of 18 fellowship-
years. This will enhance staff capability and allow the PSC
to build up a core of national research expertise, reducing
dependence on foreign technical assistance. If the cross dis-
ciplinary character of the PSC is to be preserved and strengthened,
the fellowship must be multidisciplinary in nature.  Fellows
should receive training not only in specific academic fields,
but also advanced training in the research methodologies appli-
cable to that field.



. ANNEX 26
Page 16 of 29
c.   Population Research Workshop
The PSC should convene an annual national workshop on population
research with participation from all interested research institu-
tions and universities in Indonesia as well as government depart-
ments with a direct concern (NFPCB, Central Bureau of Statistics,
etc.). The objectives of the workshop would be to:
i.   obtain an overview of the available research manpower
involved in population research;
ii.   review completed, current, and planned research pertaining
to population problems;
iii.   discuss and reach a consensus about the specific problems
that should be given research priority within the framework
of the national population policy;
iv.   coordinate research activities in population studies; and
v.   consider how research results can effectively be utilized
for the planning and implementationi of population programs.
d.   Equipment
To support the development of the center anrd cater adequately for
the research projects, the following equipment is required:
U. S. $
First Year                                             Equivalent
4   Desk calculators (electric)                     2,320
2   Adding machines                                   240
2   Typewriters (one electric)                        670
1   Copying machine                                 8,300
3   Filing cabinets                                   750
1   Duplicating machine                             1,000
1   Set of graphic material/equipment                 100
Subtotal                   13,380
Books                                           2,000
Total                      15,380
Second Year
4   Desk calculators (electric)                     2,320
1   Adding machine (electric)                         120
4   Typewriters                                       680
2   Filing cabinets                                   500
5   Card cabinets                                     750
1   Photo copier                                      500
1   Key puncher/verifier                            3,500
1   Sorter                                          3,500
2   Overhead projectors                               400
2   Video taperecorders and tapes                   1,600
Subtotal                    13,870
Books                                           8, 00
Total                      21,870



ANNEX 26
Page 17 of 29
U. S. $
Third Year                                             Equivalent
2    Desk calculators (electric)                    1,160
1    Adding machine (electric)                        120
1    Typewriter                                       170
2    Filing cabinets                                  500
1    Desk computer                                 10-000
Subtotal                   11,950
Books                                          6,000
Total                      17,950
TOTAL     Equipment        39,200
Books            16,000
55,200
e.   Transport
To cope with the need to carry out and supervise field research
projects throughout Java and Bali, the project provides for
5 minibuses and 1 4-wheel drive pick-up vans. The latter
and two minibuses will be provided in the first year, and three
minibuses in the second year.
f.   Research Project Support
To carry out the specific research program, the regular staff of
the PSC will have to be augmented by project staff. Salary support
is proDvided for regular staff, of which it is estimated that 10 full-
time supervisors, 50 full-time registrarsienumerators, 3 part-time
investigators, and 4 part-time supervisors from the Central Bureau
of Statistics will be required. To develop the necessary high
quality professional staff, a personnel development policy will be
followed which makes use of fellowships and in-service training,
and the recruitment of junior research staff on the basis of their
performance as appointees to the project staff.
Provision is made for office supplies, and the cost of establishing
and maintaining sample research registration areas and for performing
specific studies.
g.   Costs
The costs of support for the PSC are estimated in Section H of this
annex.



ANNEX 26
Page 18 of 29
F. The Demonstration Field Postpartum Program
Background
21.       An infrastructure providing the means of directing and providing
family planning information and services is that part of a health service
concerned with maternal and child health (MCH). In their reportl/,
Dr. Taylor and Dr. Berelson of the Population Council summarized the
advantages thus: "A delivery-based family planning program deals with a
population of proved fertility that is clearly identifiable at a time of
high motivation (perhaps the highest), hence accessible to information and
education, particularly the women of low parity, through a trusted and
knowledgeable institutionalized system of care with broad health concerns,
with a built-in indirect sphere of influence through word-of-mouth com-
munication out into the community, with optimal chances of follow-up care
and continuing services from the same professional personnel, with health-
ful consequences for both mother and child, and with opportunity for working
toward a complete registration system, all at reasonable costs calculated
against benefits, both medical and demographic."
22.       After completing a feasibility study into what would be the mini-
mal professional service of MCH and family plannirg to every pregnant woman
in a given society, the Population Council has taken steps to initiate studies
in depth in four or five countries. The studies will be mounted independently
but with a measure of cooperative planning and evaluationi. It is proposed
that Indonesia, which participated in the earlier feasibility studies, should
be the site of one of these demonstrations.
23.       Among the reasons for a demonstration field study of the effective-
ness and means of operation of such a rural postpartum program are:
a.   the need to determine the extent to which a complete range of
family planning services and information can be delivered
effectively through the maternal and child health services,
both institutional and traditional, without imparing the latter's
capability;
b.   the need to provide experience of the methods by which a national
program should be managed;
c.   the need to study special questions of practical operation such
as:
i.   the extent to which traditional midwives may be used as
part of the health team;
ii.   the effectiveness of methods of direct or indirect induce-
ments, including financial payments;
1/ "Comprehensive Family Planning Based on Maternal/Child Health Services:
A Feasibility Study for a World Program", Studies in Family Planning
Vol. 2, No. 2 February 1971.



ANNEX 26
Page 19 of 29
iii.   the types of contraceptives best suited to particular
situations; and
iv.   the use of child care visits to reinforce family planning
acceptance.
24.       During negotiations assurances will be sought from the Government
that the Populatlon Council, or an agency of similar competence as approved
by the Association, will be requested to provide the services of two advisers
to help in planning and carrying out such a demonstration, and such other
assistance as may be required to evaluate the results of the demonstration.
Preliminary discussions have been held with the Govermnent of Indonesia,
the provincial administrative and health authorities in East Java, and the
Population Council.  The regency of Modjokerto in East Java has been selected
on the basis of its size (population of about 500,000); proximity to Surabaja,
the provincial capital, for ease of administration and provision of evaluation
services; and the good standard of existing health services when compared with
other regencies in the province.  It is proposed to bring the level of facili-
ties and services to support the ratio of one nurse-midwife or auxiliary nurse-
midwife per 10,000 population. This ratio is one which the authorities of East
Java propose to use in building up the health infrastructure. There would be
a control area in West Java.
The Project
25.       To this end, the project provides for:
a.   the construction of 4 type B MCH-FP centers at sub-districts where
centers are now inadequate, and 34 type B MCH-FP centers in sub-
districts to post auxiliary nurse-midwives in areas away from sub-
district headquarters where there are now no permanently manned
centers;
b.   staff additional to the present establishment, including 8 supervisory
nurse-midwives, 34 auxiliary nurse-midwives, 17 health controller-
statisticians, 1 project director, 1 assistant project director,
2 research demographers, 8 trained research assistants, and 6 clerical
staff;
c.   transport including 3 cars, 10 motorcycles, and 70 bicycles;
d.   two foreign advisers for 3 years, one of whom should be a medical adviser
and the other an evaluation adviser;
e.   full evaluation through KAP, health and fertility surveys, service
statistics, and small operation and management studies;
r.   equipment, including data processing equipment, and essential clerical
equipment and supplies;
g.   evaluation expenses to meet the costs of computer time, maintenance
and running of vehicles, data processing, and supervision and direction;
and



ANNE X 26
Page 20 of 29
h.   demonstration expenses to cover the costs of:
i.   providing incentives to the dukuns to report pregnancies and
births, dukun training and supervision;
ii.   providing for the reimbursement of hospital and clinic fees
to the provincial and regency authorities, to allow testing
of the proposition that such costs to the individual are one
of the factors inhibiting full utilization of MCH services; and
iii.   providing for dietary supplements and a basic innoculation
program to introduce a child care factor into the demonstration
to measure its impact on the initial and continuing acceptance
of family planning by mothlers.
26.       Costs estimates are in section H (d) of this annex.
27.       The demonstration would be undertaken by the provincial health authority
of East Java on the direction of the NFPCB and Ministry of Health.  The project
director should be directly responsible to the Director of Health Services of
East Java. He should have had considerable experience in public health adminis-
tration and would work in close consultation with the directoral officers of
health for Modjokerto regency and Modjokerto municipality. The assistant pro-
ject director would be in charge of service statistics and evaluation.
28.       The senior non-Indonesian adviser will be a medical officer with
experience in either MCH and public health or obstetrics and gynecology. He
will be responsible for advising the project director on (a) the development
of an operational plan for the demonstration, (b) the preparation and imple-
mentation of special studies, (c) relationships between the NFPCB, Ministry of
Health and provincial health authorities, (d) the introduction of a specific
child care component, (e) operation of the MCH infrastructure and provision of
family planning services and information, and (f) the necessary liaison between
health and family planning personnel and statistical and education staff. The
other non-Indonesian adviser would have been trained in statistics and demo-
graphy. He would be responsible for providing the assistant project director
with guidance in the establishment of an effective service statistics system,
the preparation and implementation of KAP, health and fertility surveys, the
statistical requirements of- small operational studies, and the processing,
analysis and evaluation of all data collected from the demonstration project's
activities.
Detailed Planning
29.       The following are-guidelines which will be used in the development
of a detailed operational plan. The first step in preparing a detailed
operational plan will be an examination of the local situation, and in par-
ticular the existing system of health services. The plan will be a logical
-development of what is already funct.ioning, and as consistent as possible
with existing general plans for the development of health services. The
background information would include data on geography, socio-econom.ic and
:deTmographic characteristics, pattern of diseases and mortality, health
services, staff and facilities, birth control practices, and vital regis-



ANNEX 26
Page 21 of 29
tration systems. The four major variants, depending upon the place and
the attendant present at delivery, include:
a.   Hospitalization of women for delivery
b.   Home deliveries by trained midwives or assistant midwives with ante-
postpartum and postpartum clinic attendance for family planning
instruction and service
c.   Home deliveries by traditional midwives (dukuns) under some degree
of professional supervision. It is probable, given the present
available supply of trained personnel, the traditions of the people,
and the means of tranisportation, that in remote rural areas dependence
on the midwife is unavoidable in the foreseeable future.
d.   A mixed system.  For regions of a half a million or more people, a
mixture of the above three types may be appropriate. If there is a
medium sized provincial capital, its hospital might be responsible
for the town itself and for a defined area in its neighborhood.
Similarly, rural centers might provide either institutional delivery
or home service by trained midwives in its immediate vicinity.
Beyond this, the dukun, with supervision, compulsory reporting of
pregnancies and births, and provided with a small stipend, may
remain the essential worker for some time to come.
Standards of Service
30.       Although the plan requires that essentially every pregnant woman in
the selected area have some contact for maternity care and family planning,
the level of this service may -- and undoubtedly will -- vary from place to
place. Conclusions on the effectiveness of relating family planning to MCH
must be related to the level of the health services achieved. The service
objectives of each demonstration must be studied as to their practical feasi-
bility and then precisely laid down. Service standards will need to be
specified and include reference to:
a.   Maternity Care
i,   Antepartum -- number of visits; time in pregnancy of first
visit; routines at each visit; educational efforts to be made.
ii.   Delivery -- place of delivery; type of attendant; function to
be performed by attendant.
iii.   Postpartum -- timing of visit or visits; routines at each visit.
b.   Family Planning
i. Educational programs during antepartum and postpartuml clinic
visits.
ii.   Background informational services to people in general.
c.   Child Health
i.   First Year -- number of visits; nature of routine services;
immunizations; nutritional instruction.



ANNEX 26
Page 22 of 29
ii.   Second Year -- similar questions, if it is decided that the
second year is necessary and feasible.
iii.   Question of incentives, such as provision of nutritional
supplements.
Identification of the Pregnanz or Recently-Delivered Woman
31.       Since the aim is systematically to reach all pregnant or recently-
delivered women, the identification of this "target group" is an essential
part of the plan. This can be accomplished, in part and increasingly, through
the encouragemernt of the utill. ation of the MCH services as offered. For some
time, however, there will be a need for a system of active search for eligible
women. Methods of identification may cover:
a.   Antepartum Contacts
Thie antepartum contact may be made fairly complete where obstet
are hospitalized. Attendance at arntepartum clinics may be encouraged
by various categories of village workers. The traditional midwife
could be induced to bring her future patients to the clinic for
antepartum examination and preliminary family planning instruction.
b.   Postpartum Contacts
Postpartum contacts, even in the rural areas, must be made as nearly
complete as possible. Some system of birth reporting will be essen-
tial; present systems are, however, incomplete and slow in producing
information. A simpler, more rapid system, with an immediate prac-
tical purpose is essential and should also involve the traditional
midwife. The trained midwife or other worker would then respond at
once with a home visit or induce the indigenous midwife to bring the
recently-delivered woman to the family planning and postpartum clinic.
Background Information for the Community
32.       Although the program is based on the thesis that the months on both
sides of parturition provide maximal opportunities to reach and to motivate
women to adopt birth control, their decisions will be influenced by previous
knowledge and a sense of endorsement of contraceptive practices by their own
community. A general information program should be prepared for the community
for the introduction of the-system.
Administration
33.       It is essential in planning the demonstration that its relationships
to other health programs and to government agencies are clearly defined and
fully understood.
Detailed Calculation of Facilities and Personnel
34.       For each category of worker in the program, duties will be described
and qualifications with respect to previous training or experience noted.
Severely realistic estimates will be made of the work load an individual in
each category can be expected to carry. This information, taken in relation
to the required "Standards of Service" will give the exact number of each
category required.



ANNEX 26
Page 23 of 29
Evaluation
35.       The general object of the demonstration is to determine the effective-
ness of an integrated MCH-family planning service, which has been designed to
reach systematically all the pregnant or recently-delivered women in the area.
Since the study is really to determine the level of health service needed to
produce an effective family planning program, it will be necessary to evaluate
not only the family planning results, but also those reflecting maternal and
child health. For each of the three objectives, family planning, maternal
health and child health, means of measurement will be devised-both for services
rendered and results achieved.
G. Technical Assistance Requirements./
One Research and Evaluation Adviser to NFPCB
a.   Objective
To provide vitally needed technical expertise and coordination
skills in the critical first years of program operation and
until a trained national cani assume these responsibilities.
b.   Duration:  2 years.
c.   Qualifications
Ph. D. in any of the social sciences; training and experience in
applied population research; and familiarity with a wide variety
of research methodologies. Personal relation skills are most
important, since he will be responsible for the coordination and
guidance of research activities of several research institutions
not responsible to him directly.
d.   Job Functions
Set research and evaluation policies and priorities in the light
of overall program objectives; coordinate research activities
and technical consultation to the various implementing institu-
tions; assist in evaluating the progress of the research
and evaluation aspects of the program; present to the
chairman recommendations for redirection of program opera-
tions and resources based upon research findings;   select
and generate research proposals for funding and arrange for
technical assistance to such projects as required; rationalize
and further simplify present reporting and recording -ystem;
dispense training fellowships; prepare research budget; organize
in-country seminars on research and population education; visit
and assess potential of various Indonesian universities which
could becoaue actively involved in population research; and
identify for training abroad capable individuals at the provin-
cial level.
e.   Date Needed:  As soon as possible.
1/ See Section F, para 28 of this annex for the requirements for the demons-
tration field postpartum program.



ANNEX 26
Page 24 of 29
Short-Term Consultants to NFPCB and Institute of Public Health, Surabaja
a.   Objective
To proffer short-term (3-6 months) technical assistance to specific
research projects as listed in Section C of this annex.
b.   Duration:  Total of 30 man-months.
c.   Qualifications
Dependent upon need.
d.   Job Functions
Supply very specialized and highly specific technical assistance
to the assigned institution.
e.   Date Needed:  As per program need.
Three Advisers to the Population Study Center of LEKNAS
a.   Objective
To provide much needed expertise while LEKNAS professorial pfrsonnel
are being trained abroad.
Expert I
b.   Duration:  3 years.
c.   Qualifications
Degree in any of the social sciences. Experience and perspective
are more important than degree area, and should not be narrow in
either field; training and/or experience in research methodology
other than survey essential; applied field research background
highly desirable.
d.   Job Functions
Ensure that LEKNAS develops a truly multidisciplinary capability;
assist in the formulation of research policies and priorities;
assist and/or direct research projects in the field research/
registration areas; provide LEKNAS staff with in-service training
in alternatives to survey mel:hodology.
e.   Date Needed: As soon as possiible.



ANNEX 26
Page 25 of 29
Expert II
b.   Duration:  3 years.
C.   Qualifications
Degree in sociology/demography; solid experience in sampling
essential.
di.  Job Functions
Oversee and direct the establishment and maintenance of field
research/registration areas; provide in-service training and
direction of LEKNAS staff in establishing vital registration
baselines and projections, postcensal enumeration, etc.
e.   Date Needed:  As soon as possible.
Expert III
b.   Duration:  3 years.
c.   Qualifications
Degree in sociology/demography with interest and experience
in the field of migration.
d.   Job Functions
Provide technical expertise to the planned study of population
implications of transmigration for urban and rural areas.
e.   Date Needed:  As soon as possible,
One Adviser to the Institute of Demography
a.   Objective
To assist in the program for training national demographers.
b.   Duration:  3 years.
c.   Qualifications
Degree in demography, with a complementary background in economics/
sociology or statistics, with 3-5 years experience in teaching and
designing population research and sample surveys as well as a
knowledge of computer data analysis.
d.   Job Ftnctions
Assist the Director in guiding the research work of trainee demo-
graphers, and to support the teaching staff of the Institute.
e.   Date Needed:  As soon as possible.



ANNEX 26
Page 26 of 29
H. Summary of Component Inputs
a,   Support for the NFPCB at Central Level
Item                1.972-73  1973-74    1974-75   1975-76   1976-77    Total
U.S.$     U.S.$     U.S-.$   'U.S.$      U.S.$     U.S.$
Technical
Assistancel"        30,000    30,000      -         -         -       60,000
Short-term
Advisers2/           8,000     8,000     8,000     8,000     8,000    40,000
Fellowships3/         12,000    36,000    24,000    24,000    24,000   120,000
Research Seminars    10,000     10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    50,000
Research Projects4/ 100,000    100,000   100,000   100,000   100,000   500,000
Equipment!/           14,000    4,000      1,000     1,000       500    20,500
Vehicles6/             6,750     4,500      -         -         -       11,250
Additional Staff?/     6,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    58,000
Materials and
Maintenance          5,000-   10Q000    10JQO2    10J000    10000     45,000
TOTAL               191,750    215,500   165,000   165,000   165,000   904,750
1/ One foreign adviser for 2 years.   For the outline of job specification,
see Section G of this annex.
2/ At 4 man-months per annum.
3/ Fellowships at U.S.4;C,000 annually, totalling 20 man-years, spaced through-
out the project at Z. 6, 4, 4 and 4 in successive years.
4/ Apportioned as follows: Base KAP - U.S.$80,000; 2 resurveys - U.S.$150,000;
demand survey - U.S,$20,000; contraceptive survey - U.S.$20,000; five
emergency surveys at U.S.$6,000 each - U.S.$30,000; and two field research
studies annually at U.S.$20,000 per study -- examples of such studies in-
clude continuation rates by method, births averted, adequacy of rural/
urban communications systems, etc.
5/ Equipment includes:   1 puncherlverifier
1 copying machine
4 manual calculators
3 21" typewriters
2 16" typewriters
with provision for additions to the library of U.S.$6,000 over 5 years.
6/ Comprises 5 minibuses at U.S.$2,250 each.
7/ Additional staff includes: 1 social scientist at U.S.$3,00 per annum;
1 economist at U.S.$3,000 per annum; 1 demographer at UJ.S.$3,00 per annum;
1 programmer at U.S.$1,600 per annum; 2 health controllers/statisticians
at U.S.$200 per annum; 5 clerical staff at U.S.$150 each per annum; and
5 drivers at U.S.$120 each per annum0



ANNEX 26
Page 27 of 29
b.   Support for the NFPCB at Provincial Level
Item                1972-73    1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77     Total
U.S.$      U.S.$     U.S.$      U.S.$'    U.S.$     U.S.$
Additional Staffl/     1,440     1,440     1,440     1,440      1,440     7,200
Equipment'            13,700      -         -         -          -       13,700
TOTAL                 15,140     1,440     1,440     1,440      1,440    20,900
1/  Includes 1 health controller/statistician, and 1 clerical assistant for
each provincial NFPCB office.
2/ Includes manual calculators and typewriters.
i.   Institute of Demography, Diakarta
Item                           1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76     Total
U.S.$     U.S.$     U.S.$      U.S.$     U.S.$
Technical Assistance-V          30,000    30,000    30,000       -       90,000
Salaries2i                      24,000    24,000    25,000    25,000     98,000
Equipment/                       6,500     1,000     1,000     1,000      9,500
Transports'                      2,250      -         -          -        2,250
Maintenance!/                    2,500     1,000     1,500      2.500     7,50Q
TOTAL                           65,250    56,000    57,500     28,500   207,250
1/ One foreign adviser for 3 years.
2/  Includes salaries, honoraria for lectures (estimated at 2 hours per day
for a 320-day year at Rp 1,500 per hour), and training stipends, calculated
for 22 participants at the rate of Rp 25,000 per month per participant for
subsistence, and U.S$1,800 per annum for all participants' travel.
3/  Includes:  2 Electric calculating machines at U.S.$580 each
2 Manual calculators at U.S.$250 each
4 1207 Electric adding machines at U.S.$:120 each
4 H 11 C Manual adding machines at U.S.$30 eacl-
2 Filing cabinets at U.S.$250 each
2 16" Typewriters at U.S.$170 each.
4/ One minibus is provided.
5/  Includes laboratory rental for the fitst year only at U.S.$1,500.



ANNEX 26
Page 28 of 29
ii.   Population Study Center of LEKNAS-/
Item                                    1972-73    1973-74   1974-75    Total
U.fS.f$   U.@S.e$   U.S.$     U.S.$;
Transport                                  6,500     6,750      -       13,250
Technical Assistanc4
Advisory Services-7                     90,000    90,000    90,000   270,000
Fellowships                             24,000    36,000    24,000    84,000
Research/Survey Funds                   80,000   165,000   100,000   345,000
Equipment                                 15,380    21,870    17,950    55,200
Operating Costs:
Personnel                              71,400     68,200    67,400   207,000
Maintenance                              5,000     5.000     6.000    16,000
TOTAL                                    292,280   392,820   305,350   990,450
1/1 See section E of this annex for details.
2/ See section G of this annex for job descriptions.
c    Demonstration Field Postpart:um Program
Item                 1972-73   1973-74   1974-75    1975-76   1976-77    Total
U.s.$     U.S.$     U.S.$     U.S.$      U.S.$     u.s.$
Technical
Assistance         100,000    100,00('  100,000      -         -      300,000
Staff Salaries        17,000    20,000     22,000    22,000    22,000   103,000
Construction         250,000    67,400       -         -         -      317,400
Vehicles              12,000       -         -         -                 12,000
Research Studies      55,000    10,0l0    45,000     55,000    45,000   210,000
Service Statistics    30,000    20,000     20,000    25,000    25,000   120,000
Education,9Costs       5,000    10,0(0     10,000    10,000    15,000    50,000
Equipment             30,000     5,000.     5,000     5,000     5,000    50,000
Evaluation Costs      15,000    50,000    50,000     50,000    50,000   215,000
Demonstration
Expenses            20.000    25,01Q0   25.000     25.0      25,000   12O000
TOTAL                569,000    292,400   307,000   137,000   192,000 1,497,400



ANNEX 26
Page 29 of 29
I. Implementation
36.       Responsibility for the implementation of the evaluation and
research component falls on the Chairman of the NFPCB, exercising his
authority through the Deputy Chairman (Research and Evaluation) of the
NFPCB responsible for the bureaus of evaluation and research, and of re-
porting and recording.  With the assistance of the foreign adviser in
evaluation to the NFPCB, the Deputy Chairman would be responsible for
developing a master operational plan to implement this project component
within the functional and financial guidelines laid down.
37.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would seek assistance from the UN Population Division, or an agency
of similar competence acceptable to the Association, in the implementation
of those parts of the project relating to the Institute of Demography in
the University of Indonesia, and the Population Studies Center in the
National Institute for Economics and Social Research. The Governiment of
Indonesia would ask the UN Population Division to provide the services of
four foreign advisers, and to assist, as required, with the development of
a fellowship program and provision of advice on the specifications and
procurement of equipment.



ANN1X 27
Page 1 of 4
PROJECT VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
1.        The vehicle requirements of the project have been considered with
each specific component. Vehicles are1, however, also required to strengt'hen the
administrative capability of the MCH/family planning structure; and pro-vision
is needed for spare and freiglt, and an improvement in fleet management,
utilization, and maintenance.   To this end, this component provides for:
a.   115 cars and 1400 motorcycles,
b.   2 foreign advisors for 3 years, one in fleet management and the
other in fleet maintenance,
c.   training mechanics,
d.   essential workshop equipment,
e.   a fleet utilization survey, and
f.   spares and freight for all vehicles procured by the government
for the project.
2.        Beause of the integration of delivery of MCH and family planning
services, and the fact that the regency doctor is the head of the NFPCB regency
organization, vehicles provided for health services are also considerably used
by family planning staff. The regency doctor and his staff must make regular
visits to family planning and health units, but regular and intensive supervision
is not possible without reliable vehicles. Vehicles have been provided by
UNICEF, but many are now obsolete or nearing the end of their economic life,
the majority having been in use for 7 years. The component provides for 115
vehicles; this number takes into account the number of vehicles now used for
supervision at regency levels and the number about to be declared obsolete.
3.        In the past, INICEF had provided bicycles for midwives at MCH
centers to enable them to increase the number of home visits. With the
addition of family planning activities, their workload has increased con-
siderably. Home visits are considered extremely important for the success of
the family planning program, and if the number is to be increased, light
motorized transport must be made available. tINICEF is already providing
1,600 motorized bicycles and motor scooters for this purpose over a 3-year
period. In view of the rapidly developing family planning program, however,
this is not adequate. Motorized bicycles are needed for an additional 1,400
centers.  Of these, 800 are required in the first year, 500 in the second
year, and 100 in the third year.
4.        In 1968, the Department of Health established a management orga-
nization with responsibility for the management, servicing, maintenance, and
repair of the health service fleet. The organization was set up under a
joint plan of operations between the Department of Health and UNICEF and
includes some seven maintenance umits and workshops, together with five mobile
maintenance units. UNICEF provided the services of a transport consultant
to assist in the setting up and the initial running of its administration,



ANNEX 27
Page 2 of 4
training courses, and workshops. This organization is, however, now in need
of considerable strengthening if it is to have the capacity to properly
direct and maintain a fleet for health services and family plann-ng of the
size that is now developing. To this end, the project provides for two
advisers for 3 years. One would be a fleet manager, responsible for training
and upgrading existing management administration so that it is capable of
handling its enlarged responsibilities. The second would be a maintenance
organization manager with responsibility for ensuring the full technical
competence of the personnel responsible for the maintenance and repairing
all vehicles. A small provision is included for mechanic training and
essential equipment.
5.        To improve fleet management and utilization, the project provides
for a major survey of current transport utilization. The utilization of
vehicles is presently less than optimal, in terms of both individual vehicle
use and of overall fleet deployment. To ensure the highest possible effi-
ciency in deployment, a detailed survey of transport resources needs to be
carried out. The objectives will be to establish the present utilization of
transport, as well as the optimal future deployment, with reference to job
requirements, and taking into account priorities and working conditions.
6.        To keep the transport in optimum running condition, spare parts and
batteries for all vehicles must be readily available. The estimated require-
ments for spare parts, etc. are 5% of the ex-factory price of the vehicle in
the first year and 10% in the second year. Provision is made for all vehicles
provided under the several project components.
7.        As all vehicles and spare parts will be procured outside Indonesia,
the project makes provision for cost of surface shipment. The current average
freight cost is 12-$ of the ex-factory price.
8.        The cost of the items in this component are estimated at:
Quan-                          U. S. $
Item         tity    1972-73   1973-74   19  -      975-76               Total
Car           115    230,000      -         -         -          -      230,000
50-cc Motor-
cycle     1,400    104,000    65,000    13,000      -          -      182,000
Advisory
Servicesi/     2    65,ooo    65,000    65,000                        195,000
Utilization
Survey       -      20,000      -         -         -                  20,000
Training
Mechanics     -      4,500      -         -         -          -        4,500
Workshop
Equipment     -     50,000      -         -         -          -       50,000
Project Vehi-
cle Freight  -     67,000     58,00     63,000    50,000    27,000    265,000
Project Vehi-
cle Spares   -      27,000    77,000    72 000       2      50,     000 296,000
TOTLL                567,500   265,000   213,000   120,000    77,000 1,242,500
-/ Includes local travel.



ANNEX 27
Page 3 of 4
9.        Assurances will be sought during negotiations that UNICEF will be
asked to assist the Government in determining the specification and procure-
ment of vehicles and equipment required for the project, and to provide the
services of the two advisers whose functions are described below.
10.       The adviser in fleet management would be responsible for advising
the Fleet Transport Direc-tor on the operation of all vehicles in the fleet.
His functions would include assisting with:
a.   the preparation and execution of a fleet utilization survey,
b.   the specifications and phasing of procurement of vehicles procured
for project purposes;
c.   the development and expansion of the presen-t system of fleet
management with such modifications as may be indicated by the
results of the fleet utilization survey,
d.   the prepara-Lion of annual budgets for the vehicles and the fleet
maintenance system,
e.   the reception and prompt preparation of vehicles procured under
the project,
f.   ensuring the effective use of project vehicles lor the purposes
for which they were procured,
g.   the establishment of work rates and standards for the fleet
organization, and
h.   the establishment of satisfactory liaison between the Ministry of
Health's management unit and vehicle users such as the NFPCB and
the Ministry of Information.
11.       The adviser in fleet maintenance would be responsible for advising
the Fleet Transport Director on the maintenance and repairs of all vehicles
in the fleet. His functions would include assisting with:
a.   the training of mechanics and drivers,
b.   the establishment of lists of commercial and government workshops
for the repair and maintenance of vehicles,
c.   the establishment and maintenance of adequate stocks and inventories
of spare parts for fleet vehicles,
d.   the selection of workshop equipment, buildings and tools for all
repair facilities,
e.   *the establishment and maintenance of adequate vehicle and vehicle
* cost control records, and
f.   the establishment of a system for the regular inspection and ser-
vicing of all fleet vehicles.



ANNEX 27
Page 4 of 4.
Table 1
SUtMKARY OF PROJECT VEHICLE REQUIREKENTS
Unit     1972-73       1973-74      19'4-75       1975-76          1976-77         Total
Price Quan- Value   Quan- Value   Quan- Value   Quan-   Value   Quan-  Value   Quan-    Value
Item            U.S.$  tity  U.S.$  tity  US$     tltv  U.SA    tity   U.S,$   tity    U.S.$   tity     U.S.$
P?ramedical
Education
Minibus       2,250    -     -      2    4,500   20   45,000    5     11,250                    27      60,750
Family Planning
Training
Car           2,000    -     -     10   20,000   12   24,000    -       -      -       -        22      44,000
Minibus       2,250    -     -       8  40,500   30   67,500    -       -       -       -       48     108,000
Nonmedical
Field Worker
Program
Car           2,000    2    4,000  32   64,000   30   60,000     30   60,000    35   70,000    129     258,000
120-cc
Motorcycle      220  100   22,000  200  44,000  500  110,000    500 110,000     300  66,000  1,600     352,000
Bicycle          30    -     -      -     -     500   15,000 3,000   90,000  1,000   30,000 4,500      135,000
Evaluation
and Research
Minibus       2,250    6   13,500    5  11,250    -     -       -       -       -       -       11      24,750
Car           2,000    4    8,000   -     -       -     -       -      -       -       -         4       8,000
120-cc
Motorcycle      220    4      880   4      880    -     -       -       -       -      -         8       1,760
Bicycle          30   30      900  40    1,200    -     -       -       -      -       -        70       2,100
Family Planning
Centers
Minibus       2,250    3    6,750    -    -       -     -       -       -       -       -        3       6,750
Car           2,000   10   20,000   -     -       -     -       -       -      -       -        10      20,000
Hospital Post-
partum Program
Car           2,000    2    4,000   1    2,000    -     -       -       -      -                 3       6,000
50-cc Motorized
Bicycle         130  112   14,560  60    7,800    -     -       -       -      -       -       172      22,360
Information and
Comnunications
4-Wheel Drive
Pick-up Van   5,000   20  100,000  35 175,000    25  125,000     25  125,000    10   50,000    115     575,000
Minibus       2,250    2    4,500    -    -       -     -       -       -       *-      -        2       4,500
Car           2,000    3    6,000   2    4,000    -     -       -       -      -       -         5      10,000
Population
Education
Car           2,000    2    4,000   -             -     -       -       -       -       -        2       4,000
Advisory Team
Car           2,000    3    6,000   -             -     -       -       - *             -        3       6,000
Other Vehiclesl/
Car           2,000  115  230,000   -     -       -     -       -       -       -       -      115     230,000
50-cc Motorized
Bicycle         130 800   104,000  500  65.000  100   13.000      -     -       -     -      1,400     182,000
Subtotal                    549,090      440,130       459,500        -396,250        216,000          2,0 60,970
Spares                       27,000       77,000        72,000          70,000         50,000            296,000
Freight                      67.000       _8. 000-      63.000          50.000         27.000            265,000
TOTAL                       643,090      575,130       594,500         516,250        293,000          2,621,970
1/   Not provided elsewhere by specific components



ANNEX 28
Page 1 of 5
HOSPITAL POSTPARTUM FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
Background
1.       A number of psychological and logistical advantages favor the
provision of advice and services on family planning in connection with
maternity cases. Such a so-called postpartum program is already provided
in Indonesia in 26 hospitals with financial assistance from the Population
Council and in three hospitals financed by Djakarta city. Current post-
partum activities in these hospitals cover around 80,000 deliveries per
annumr, with an average rate of acceptance of family planning services of
about 3C%. In the six largest hospitals, the estimated umuber of acceptors
is nearly half of the inumber of delivery and Abortion cases.
2.        The Government of Indonesia has reported continued support for
the present postpartum program as well as a gradual expansion to additional
hospitals. At the same time, the Population Council considers its support
as a demonstration of limited duration. The UNFPA has ex:pressed its readi-
ness to support the program at hospitals presently supported by the Popu-
lation Council and at additional hospitals interested in providing family
planning advice and services.
The Project
3.       To this end, the hospital postpartum program component provides
for:
a.   one technical adviser, experienced in hospital postpartum programs,
for 2 years;
b.   salary support for:
i. additional staff, or additional work required of existing
staff, employed in the selected hospitals, based on
1 physician, 2 nurses, 2 midwives, 1 field worker at each
hospital., and 1 clerk
ii. a central coordinating unit comprising 1 project coordinator,
2 assistant coordinators, and 2 cleris
c.   essential hospital equipment, office equipment, clinical supplies,
and informational and educational equipment and materials;
d.   support for in-service training programs in postpartum activities
and basic family planning training in motivation methods;
e.   research funds to penmit the maintenance of conmplete clinic
records and their analysis, as a basis for continuing evaluation
of the postpartum program; and
f.   three pick-up vans for the central coordinating units and 190
motorcycles at the rate of 2 motorcyclegs per hospital to enable
staff to undertake the necessary followf-up work with family
planning acceptors.



ANNEX 28
Page 2 of 5
Implementation
4.        In implementing this component of the project, assurances will be
sought from the Government during negotiations that WHO, or an agency of
similar competence acceptable to the Association, would provide the services
of a technical adviser with axperience in the development of a hospital
postpartum program. The funct_on of the adviser would be to assist the
project coordinator in the planning, development and evaluation of the pro-
gram. He would be responsi'ole for:
a.   advising on the standards and methods to be adopted in the initial
expansion of the program;
b.   assisting with the preparation of an operational plan within the
functioial and financial guidelines established by the project;
c.   advising on the specifications and equipment considered necessary
for the development of the program;
d.   advising on the development of effective relationships in project
implementation between the NFPCB, the Ministry of Health and
other implementing units;
e.   advising on the development of training programs for staff
brought into postpartum activities;
f. in conjunction with the communications adviser and population
education adviser, providing guidance on the most effective
informational and educational techniques and materials for the
particular needs of the postpartum program; and
g.   assisting in the review and evaluation of the program to determine
the extent to which continuing expansion is appropriate.
5.        The 26 hospitals supported by the Population Council include four
large hospitals with an estimated number of deliveries per year of over
5,000, eleven medium-sized hospitals with around 2,000 - 5,000 deliveries
per annum (see Table 1 of this annex). Most of the hospitals are located
in cities in Java and Bali, but three are located in Sumatra. The project
provides support for these 26 hospitals and similar support to 30 additional
hospitals to be included in 1972-73, with a further addition of 30 hospitals
in 1973-74. The experience gained in the current program will be fully
utilized to establish gaidelines for the proposed expansion and standards
will be developed for future application. Only hospitals accepting such
standards will be supported to participate in an expansion of the scheme.
6.        The Population Cou_cil has provided for a project coordinator
on a part-time basis. With the proposed expansion of the scheme, provision
will be made for a full-time coordinator. He will coordinate the develop-
ment of the scheme, prepare guidelines for its expansion based upon the
experience gained thus far, and assist in making the selection of addi-
tional hospitals, as well as supervise their work. An assistant coor-
dinator (physician) is required, as well as a secretary and a clerk. In
the second year, an additional assistant coordinator will be provided with



ANNEX 28
Page 3 of 5
supporting clerical staff. For optional coordination and supervision, the
as,sistant coordinator could be stationed at a provincial level.  At each of
the collaborating hospitals, either additional staff is required or add.i-
tional work has to be done by existing staff. The number of adiditional
personnel or amount of work involved depends, to a considerable extent,
upon the size of each hospital and in particular the number of cases of
deliveries and abortions. Estimates have been prepared on the need for
a large hospital to employ 1 physician, 2 nurses, 2 midwives, 1 field
worker, and 1 clerk for the program. The hospitals presently receiving
support for postpartum programs are fairly large (with an average number
of deliveries of around 3,000 per annum; those to be added to the program
will be somewhat smaller. A tentative list of 24 hospitals whiere post-
partum family planning activities may be adided is in Table 2 of tihis annex.
7.        Special training courses related solely to postpartum activities
will be conducted for the staff of additional hospitals included in the
scheme, assuming that they have already had basic family planning training.
Staff which have not yet received basic family planning training will be
given training priority at one of the family planning training centers.
Training will be carried out at hospitals with an efficient ongoing post-
partum program. The duration of training of hospital staff will be 3 days
for medical officer and 1 week for others. In addition to training new
staff, allowance is made for training replacement staff and for retraining.
8.        General education aids and informationial materials required for
family planning activities at the hospital concerned will be made available
by the Ministry of Information and other agencies under the general guidance
and coordination of the NFPCB. Flip charts and other educational materials
will be prepared and specially designed for the postpartum program.
9.        The estimated costs are summarized as follows:
Item               1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76  1976-77    Total
U.S.$     U.S.$     U.S.      U.S.$-   U.S.$     U.S.$
Technical Assistance
Advisory Services 30,000    30,000      -        -         -       60,000
Research           5,600     8,600     0, 600    8,600    8, 600   40,000
Operating Costs
Staff            219,000   308,000  337,50C0  373,000   408,500 1,646,ooo
Maintenance       10,000    11,000     5,000     5,000    5,000    36,ooo
Equipment           15.,500   20,000     2,50()    2,500    2,500    43,000
Training Program     8,000     8,000     3,00(     3,000    3,000    25,000
Transport           19,000    10,000      -        -         -29,000
TOTAL              307,100   395,600  356,600   392,100   427,600 1,879,000



ANNEX 21b
Table 1 g4of 5
THE POPULATION COUNCIL INDONESIAN POSTPARTUM PROGRAM
Estimated
Number of
Amount       Annual       Acceptors
Grantee          Hospitals                   U.S.$      Deliveries       1970
NFPCB     Central Office                     41,068          -              -
RSUP Medan Central, Medan           5,859       4,435          1,166
RST Rumkit Dam (Army), Medan        4,380       1,573            370
RSUP Central, Palembang             3,920       3,714            499
RSUP Padang, Padang                 4,740       3,7701/        1,248
RSB Maternity Pamitran, Tjirebon    3,940       1,509            893
RSUP Tegalojosi, Klaten             4,140       1,820            550
Military, Semarang                  2,450       1,511            942
RSU Dr. Kariadi, Semarang           4,140       3,4201/        1,056
RSB Panti Wilasa, Semarang          4,140       2,680-1/         834
RST Military, Magelang              3,300       1,165            624
RS Soeproen, Malang                4,405        1,575            691
RSUP General, Malang               4,730        2,5401/          194
RSB Mardi Santoso, Surabaja         5,007       5,8001/          784
RSUP Dr. Soetomo, Surabaja         4,901        3,9001/        1,073
RSAL, Surabaja                      4,880       4,7441/        1,292
RSU Surakarta, Solo                 5,670       5,0001/          568
RSPAD Central (Army), Djakarta      4,937       3,1601/        1,402
RSU Gadja Mada, Djakarta            4,140       1,3101/          480
RSUP, Denpasar                      4,695       3,0001/        1,430
RSUP, Tandu.ngkarang                4630/       1,501            413
TOTAL                                       130,072-
NFPCB     Dr. Tjipto Mangunkusumo,                        2,773          2,748
Djakarta  Djakarta
Djatinegara Matraman,                           6,041          1,670
Djakarta
Raden Saleh, Djakarta                           2,783          1,428
TOTAL                                        27,728_
University     Hasan Sadikin, Bandung                     1,906          1,200
of Pajajaran   Sariningsih Ext. (Army),                   1,632            925
Bandung
Dustira Military General,                  1,114          1,300
Tjimahi
TOTAL                                        22,130-
.1/ Estimates.
2/ Amount indicated for the period March 1, 1971 to February 29, 1972.
Funding for the period January 1, 1971 to February 28, 1971 amounted to
U.S.$8,500 (U.S.$200 per hospital per month plus U.S.$500 for the central
office).
3/ Funding for the period January 1 to December 31, 1971. No individual
budget was allotted for each hospital.



ANNEX 28
Page 5 of 5.
Table 2
TENTATIVE LIST OF HOSPITALS
FOR INCLUSION IN THE POSTPARTUM PROGRAM, 1972-73
Type of 1/
Province       Name of Hospital              Location            Hospital-
West Java      RSU Serang                    Serang              Small
RSU Sukabumi                  Sukabumi            Medium
RSU Garut                     Garut               Small
RSU Tasikmalaja               Tasikmalaja         Medium
RSU Tjirebon                  Tjirebon            Medium
RSBMI Bogor                   Bogor               Medium
RSB Budi Kartini              Tasikmalaja         Large
Central Java   RSU Purwokerto                  -                 Medium
RSU Purworedjo                  -                 Small
RSU Pati                        -                 Small
RSU Pekalongan                  -                 Small
RSB Brajat Minuljo            Solo                Medium
RSB Panti Siwi                Semarang            Medium
RSU Tidar                     Magelang            Small
RSU Bodjonegoro                 -                 Small
RSU Madiun                      -                 Medium
RSU Kediri                      -                 Medium
RSU Djember                     -                 Small
RSB Panti Wanita              Ponorogo            Large
Bali           RSU Singaradja                Singaradja          Small
RSB Artiti                    Denpasar            Large
Djakarta       RS Fatmawati                                      Medium
RSB Budi Kemuliaan                                Large
RS Sumber Waras                                   Medium
1/ Type of hospitals:
Small = hospitals having 500 - 1,000 deliveries and abortions
per year;
Medium = hospitals having 1,000 - 2,000 deliveries and abortions
per year;
Large = hospitals having more than 2,000 deliveries and abortions
per year.



ANNEX 29
Page 1 of 7
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
A. Objective.
1.         'The objective is to assist the Government in the execution of
the 5-year national family planning program by the development of effective
communication strategies, techniques, and materials. The project will
provide guidance, expertise, and material assistarnce on family planning
communication. The project consists of two parts. The first is designed
to strengthen the NFPCB's Information and Motivation Bureau, enabling it
to:
a.    promote, coordinate, plan, research, experiment, pretest, and
evaluate techniques and materials with a view to developing
existing and innovative strategies in integrated family plan-
ning conmQmunication; and
b.    build up knowledge, experience, and training tools in this
field.
The second provides for the delivery of mobile family planning information
units to each of the 115 regencies in Java and Bali.
2.         In promoting the development of an integrated communications
approach, the NFPCB will utilize all possible channels of interpersonal,
mediated and service commnication, introducing family planning components
into existing communication and action programs. The effectiveness of
family planning information, education, and motivation programs will be
enhanced by closely relating them to the social, cultural, and economic
characteristics of the various comnunities, as well as to the overall
developmental process in the country. The NFPCB will not be involved in
the production and utilization activities, except for pretesting and
experiumentation purposes, but it will provide the implementing agencies
with advisory services and prototype materials. To stimulate the widest
possible interdisciplinary approach to family planning communication
development, the NFPCB will work in consultation and coopera .on with
all departnents and agencies concerned with family planning; these in-
clude the Ministry of Information, the Office of Educational Planning
(BPP) of tha Ministry of Education and Culture, the Health Education
Division of the Ministry of Health, the Community Development Services
of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the agricultural extension ser-
vices of the Ministry of Agriculture.
B. The Project
3.         The project provides resources to enable the Bureau of Informa-
tion and Motivation of the NFPCB to make more effective provision for:
a.    planning family planning communication strategies and techniques,
and their integrated utilization through a combination of channels
and campaigns;



ANNEX 29
Page 2 of 7
b.    the use of media to reinforce interpersonal communication in
field programs with adequate research, experimentation, pre-
testing, and evaluation so that their effect on target
audiences improves;
c.    the use of media as effective tools in training family planning
service personnel and other groups;
d.    assistance in, training staff in family planning communications;
e     the collection, analysis, and distribution of documents and
materials on family planning communications;
f.    the promotion of and guidance on the production and dissemination
of family planning and population information materials; and
g.    technical assistance in family planning communications to all
implenenting inits.
4.         To this end, the first part of the projsct provides specifically
for:
a.    salary support for the addition of essential professional and
technical posts. These posts comprise communication strategy
planner, experimentation organizer, communication training
planner, radio/TV production designer, film/audiovisual pro-
duction designer, production placement assistant, and photo/
film technician. Because of a shortage of skilled staff, it
is unlikely that the posts could be filled immediately, but
provision is made to enable the Government to recruit staff
after suitable training. Provision is also made for the use
of local consultants in developing research studies and
experiments.
b.    36 man-months of non-Indonesia consultants for special studies,
experiments and training.
c*    114 man-months of f'allowships and study tours to increase the
quantity and quality of the number of professionals working in
family planning; communications.
d.    equipment, particularly audiovisual and office equipment, as
well as reference material, tapes, films and production
materials.
e.    research studies and experimental productions of techniques and
materials.
f.    i. a basic docuLmentation center of publications relating to
family planning communications;
ii.  the translation, production and distribution of important
texts; and
iii. the publication and dissemination of the results of the
Bureau's original research studies and experimental productions.



ANNEX 29
Page 3 of 7
g.   two minibuses and five cars to provide the mobility needed to
develop effective research studies and experiments, particularly
in rurel areas.
h.    basic maintenance costs for equipment and transport and the renewal
of production materials.
Implementation
5.         During the initial 6 months of the project, staff will be recruited
and oriented, links with cooperating institutions and implementing units
organized, and detailed program of operations developed on a yearly basis.
Program implementation will be kept flexible in order to enable the require-
ments of the implementing agencies to be met as they iarise. The function of
the communications adviser would be to provide guidance to the Chaiman of
the NFPCB o; the development of com=,unic, -   n the fields of f amily planning
and population. He will make the fullest use of available advice in this field
from the country and regional offices of UNESCO. UNESCO, or an agency of Simi-
lar competence as approved by the Association, may also be called upon by the
Government to help in providing short-term consultants, and assisting in the
development of a fellowship program. The specific responsibilities of the
communications adviser would include guidance on:
a.   the development of an overall strategy of communications in family
planning and population, using both existing and innovative tech-
niques and materials;
b.    within this strategy, the preparation of an operational plan, the
broad functional anxd financial outlines of which are contained in
the joint IBFD-UNFPA project;
c.    the development of effective relationships in project implementa-
tion between the NFPCB, Ministry of' Educ4.Aon, Ministry of In-
formation, another Indonesian and non-Indonesian agencies;
d.    the integration of communications techniques and materials in
related project components such as family planning training,
paramedical education, and population education;
e.    the most effective use by the Ministry of Information , and
other implementing units at regency level, of the mobile
information units provided by the project;
f.    the most expeditious and effective means of developing a staff
capability in the Bureau of Information and Education by direct
hire or through the establishment of an effective training
program using, in part, a fellowship program; and
g.    the preparation and execution of stLudies and experimental pro-
ductions designed to test methods of communications in relation
to subject matter and potential audience.



ANNEX 29
Page l, of 7
Research
6.         The first phase of the plroject, and a substantial part of later
phases, will be devoted to research. It will include (a) the identification
of sources, messages, channels, and. audiences; (b) an analysis of current
and innovative communication approaches, techniques, and materials; and
(c) an analysis of feedback, and evaluation. Research will precede the
planning of communication strategies and techniques, and the design of
materials through content development, single and multimedia design, pre-
testing and evaluation, redesign, and adaptation. Experimentation in the
application and utilization of strategies, techniques, and materials will
be carried out.
7.         Programs planned, and materials designed by the NFPCB will be
executed and produced either by implementinig units and voluntary family
planning,organizations, or conmercial agencies. The Ministry of Informa-
tion will have a special role in the production and dissemination of programs
and materials designeca. by, or through, the NFPCB.
8.         Copies of all studies, experiments, and materials on fsamily plan-
nirig communications developed in Indonesia and abroad will be kept in a
documentation center at the NFPCB, and a reference library established.
Provision is made for the reproduction and printing of documents and pub-
lications, and for translations, transcriptions, and dubbings mainly into
at least three Indonesian dialects used at present for printed materials
and film tracks.
Training
9.         The project will contribute towards training needs in the commu-
nication field through:
a.    the development of communications media as tools for training
family planning service personnel and specialized groups;
b.    the planming of adequate communication components for intro-
duction in family planning training programs for training staff
in the use of communication media techniques; and
c.    the formation of special training programs (field workshops,
seminars, and laboratories) in family planning communication.
10.        An early start will be made in planning a substantial communication
component for the training programs of the national, provincial, and sub-
training centers. This will be done keeping in mind the potential of mass
media usen- expandin_ t    tiaining  f the injR  inglve arxe number of field
workers to be recruited and operated in the next 10 years. Conmunication
training programs will be constantly revised in the light of the development
of communication techniques resulting from the experimental work. Personnel
of all categories will be trained in the evolving techniques and applications
of communication media as they are developed and satisfactoxily tested.



ANNEX 29
Page 5 of 7
Family Planning Information Units
11.        To complement the strengthening of the capability of the NFPCB
at the central level, the project provides for the delivery of mobile family
planning information units to each of the 115 regencies in Java and Bali.
This responds to the need at peripheral levels for communications inputs to
support the face-to-face information and motivation, work of family planning
staff, such as paramedical personnel and field workers,, and complements
community-oriented family plaiming education programs. Mobile units are
recluired to maximize coverage; each unit should be able to visit a sub-
diStrict at least once in every 2 months to support vTillage-level inforaa-
tion efforts. Each unit would come under the direction of the regency-level
information office of the Ministry of Information in coordination with the
local NFPCB office for day-to-day activities, and wlth central-level offices
(including the Bureau of Information and Education of the NFPCB) for tech-
nical direction and the supply of communication materials.
12.        Each unit will require one 4-wheel drive pick-up van with the
following equipment:
1 16-mn projector and scree:n
1 Cassette tape recorder
1 2-Hp generator
1 PA system with 2 speakers
1 35-mm slide/film strip projector
1 Family planning exhibition kit (locally produced)
1 Manually-operated duplicator.
The equipment will be purchased separately and fi-tted to the vehicles as required.
13.        Additional staff, comprising one audiovisual assistant and one
driver for each unit, will be required. Infoxmation Ministry staff who will
run the audiovisual equipment must be properly trained in its use and
maintenance. Training programs should be established at the PTCs in con-
sultation with the Bureau of Information and Education staff.
Costs
14.        The costs of the first part of the project are estimated to be:
Item               1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76  1976-77    Total
U           .S.$    U.s.s     U.S.$     U.S.$
Equipment           40,000    35,000    25,000    15,000   15,000   130,000
Advisory Services    8,000    16,000    16,000   16,000    16,OOO    72,000
Fellowships          8,00(    14,000    12,000    12,000   11,000    57,000
Seminars, Workshops
and In-Service
Training
Progravms          7,010    11,000    11,000    12,000    12,000   53,000
Additional Staff     7,000    15,000    15,000    15,000   10,000   .62,000



ANNEX 29
Page 6 of 7
Item               1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76  1976-77    Total
Studies, Research
and Experimental
Product-ons       15,000    20,000    20.,000   25,000   20,000   100,000
Publications and
Documentation      3,000     4,000     5,000     4,000    4,o0o    20,000
Transport           11,000     4,000      -        -         -       15,000
Maintenance          3000       ,        5,000    5,00      5,000    22,000
TOTAL              102,000   123,000   109,000   1041,000  93,000   531,000
15.       The costs of providing the mobile units are estimated to be:
Item               1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76  1976-77    Total
U.S.$     J.        U.S.$     U.S.$    U.S.$
Transport          100,000   175, 000  125,000   125,000   50 ,000  575,000
Equipment          100,000   175,000   125,000   125,000   50,000   575,000
Staff                8,000    21,000    31,000   40,000    45,000   145,000
Training Costs       4,00Q     7,000     5,000    5,000     1,0Q0    22,000
Maintenance and
Running Costs     12,000    333000    48.000   636,000     900,   225,000
TOTAL              22)4,000  411 ,000  334,000  358,000   215,000 1,542,000
16.       Consolidated estimates for the Information and Communications are:
Item               1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77   Total
U.S.$               U.S.$     U.S.$;   U.S.      U.S.$
Advisory Services    8,000    16,000    16,000   16,000    16,000    72,000
Fellowships          8 ,ooo   14,000    12,000   12,000    11 ,000   57,000
Seminars, Workshops
and Training
Programs          11,000    18,000    16,000    17,000   13,000    75,000
Transport          111,000   179,000   125,000   125,000   50,000   590,000
Equipment          140,000   210,000   150,000   140,000   65,000   705,000



ANNEX 29
Page 7 of 7.
Item                1972-73   ?973-74    .1r74-75  1975-76   1976-77    Total
-  o U.S.$--  U.S.$  u.ss      u.S$      U.S-$
Staff                1,o000   36,000     46,ooo o000    55,ooo000      207,000
Maintenance          15,000    37,000    .53,000    68,000    74,000    247,000
Publications ad
Documentation       3,000     4.,000     5,000     4,000     4,000     20,000
Research- Cots       1500      20000                25,000    20,000    100,000
TOTAL               326,ooo   534,OOO   443,000    462,000   308,000 2,073,000



ANNEX 30
Page 1 of 6
DEVELOPMENT OF POPULATION EDUCATION
A. Background
1.        The purpose of this component is to assist the Government of
Indonesia in its efforts to develop and strengthen its programs and acti-
vities in the field of population education for both the in-school and
out-of-school sectors of the population.
2.        There is increasing recognition that due to high birth rates,
reduced death rates, and increasing urbanization, the planning and imple-
mentation of economic and social developments will falter if Indonesia fails
to take urgent steps to solve the problem of rapid population growth. The
national family planning program, as well as efforts to increase trans-
migration and slow urbanization, require widespread public support. Popu-
lation education is an educational program designed to develop in each
learner an understanding, attitude, and behavior responsive to the effect
thalt population growth has on the quality of :Life involving its social,
economic, political, and cultural aspects in the family, community, national,
and world environments.
3.        By Decree No. 84 dated October 18, 1969, the President of the
Republic of Indonesia established the Office of Educational Development (BPP)
within the Ministry of Education and Culture. The office, headed by a chair-
man, consists of a planning secretariat and six institutes dealing respect-
ively with curriculum development, personnel development, instructional
materials development, educational facilities development, educational
research and evaluation, and educational libraries development.
4.        In October-November 1970, the BPP organized a national seminar to
orient Indonesian teachers and educators about the various problems involved
in population planning and growth, and how this basic knowledge could best
be transferred in their daily work to further its dissemination nationwide.
5.        World Education, Inc., a private foundation in New York with
interasts in the field of functional literacy and family life planning, has
recently signed an agreement with the Government to provide a one-year grant
of U.S.$10,000 to establish a pilot communications service center for family
life education for out-of-school youth and adults. The center will be
admini.stered by the BPP.
B. The Project
6.        The project aims at:
a.   developing public understanding cf the necessity for an appropriate
balance between population and available resources;
b., creating widespread knowledge and understanding of the relationships
between population and the quality of the physical and social
environment;



ANNEX 30
Page 2 of 6
c.   educating people to understand the direct relationships between
family size and the socio-economic well-being of the fainily and
society; and
d.   motivating people to adopt their attudesnd reproductive
behavior so as to creat--pprpiate balance between available
resource     -TadiIy- and social responsibilities.
It will create the conditions necessary to achieve these objectives by:
a.   training a "critical mass" of highly skilled and knowledgeable
population education personnel at central and provincial levels;
b.   developing and producing instructional materials prototypes in
population education, including teachers' guides, basic reference
materials, collections of readings, instructional tapes, films,
film strips, models, diagrams, and literacy materials;
c.   developing research and evaluation on population education
related specifically to identifying the most effective methods
and media for motivating and changing the attitudes of various
population groups toward family planning; and
d.   disseminating population education information and materials
among teachers, students, and the non-school adult population
in the 13-45 years age group.
7 .       To this end, the project will provide for:
a.   one adviser in population education for 5 years, and 70 man-months
for short-term consultation in media development, teachers' training,
curricula development, and materials development;
b.   480 man-months of fellowships to develop expertise in communications,
the development of instructional materials, teachers' training in
population education and related subjects;
c.   assistance for seminars and workshops and in-service training
programs;
d.   equipment including audiovisual and office equipment and a reference
library of essential texts relating to population education;
e.   two cars to allow staff mobility;
f.   production and distribution of instructional materials for both the
in-school and out-of-school development of population education;
g.   subcontracts with Indonesian and non-Indonesian research and teaching
institutions to develop their interests and capabilities in carrying
out population education and studies, and to establish research in
developing a methodological framework to be used both for research
and instructional methodology in population education.



ANX30
Page 3 of 6
8.        The population educ.ation project will. be administered by the
Ministry of Education as a special government project. A coordinating
and the Ministry of Education and Culture to eiii;ure that all plans and
programs are fully coordinated, both vertically and horizontally, within
the larger context of population and family planning. The chainnan of
this coummittee will be a staff member of the IilFPCB.
Implementation
9.        The project will be carried out by the Office of Educational Deve-
lopment (BPP) in its initial research, planning, and developmental phases,
and by the directorates and provincial education authorities in its imple-
mentation phases. It is essential for this populationl education project to
be fully integrated with the structure, orga;nization, and strategy of the
BPPe This will ensure that population education programs are coordinated
with, and supported by, the overall national plans for educational develop-
ment which include school and out-of-school education, and which will be
increasingly synchronized and coordinated w-iLth the programs of public and
private agencies aad institutions which are not directly implemented by the
Ministry of Education. Integration within the BPP will, in addition, provide
the project with material resources as well. as the expert assistance of
government personnel involved in overall educational planning.
10.       The Govermnent wiLl use the services of UNESCO, or an agency of
similar competence as approved by the Association, to provide an adviser in
population education, assistance with a fellowship program, and such other
advice or help as the Government might require. The function of the adviser
would be to assist the Director of the BPP in the development of population
education as as essential component both of in-school and out-of-school
education. His responsibilities would include guidance on:
a.   the development of an operational plan within the functional and
financial framework of the joint IEtD-UNFPA project;
b.   the development of effective relationships in project implementa-
tion between the NFPCB, Ministry of Education and other Indonesian
and non-Indonesian agencies;
c.   the development of effective relationships with other project
components, such as family planming communications and parexaedical
training;
d.   the establishment of seminars, workshops and in-service training
programs, designed to produce a highly trained corps of expertise
in the teaching of population education for both in-school and
out-of-school groups;
e.   the establishment of a fellowship program to produce experts in
the development of suitable media and methods for the teaching of
population education;
f.   the preparation of curriculum content and syllabus material,
reading and reference lists, tape recordings and related instructional
aids for both in-school and out-of-school education;



ANNX 30
g.  the inclusion of population education components into basic teacher
uatiozturzL       raswlal as ho   of teQuical. ,2tCato-fal-a*id-- -a --
agricultural institutions; and
h.   the methods required to introduce population education into
approaches to out-of-school education.
The adviser should have an advanced degree in education, considerable expe-
rience of curriculum development in formal and non-formal education methods,
as well as experience in the development of population education or related
programs.
Development
11.      A series of five seminars on population education will be held in
1972-73 in various parts of the country, utilizing some of the educators
already trained (in the 1970 seminar) as instructors. Approximately 40
persons will participate in each seminar so that by mid-1973, there will be
a total of 240 educators with specialized traing in various aspects of
population education and family planing. These persons will, in turn,
prepare teaching aids, assist in curriculum revision, prepare textbook
materials, and teach population education in schools as well as out-of-
school settings.
12.      Not a:l these persons will be completely qualified after a month
of training, and many will be unable to work full-time in population education
activities. Continuous efforts are, therefore, required to provide sufficient
training to build what is considered a "critical mass" of 200 key personnel at
the central and provincial levels of government who can effectively carry out
a nationwide program of population education.
13.       The project will be developed as follows:
a.   1972-73
i. Continued emphasis on training of key personnel through seminars
and workshops.
ii. Overseas training of high level personnel both in year-long
programs and in special 3-month courses.
iii.   Organization and planning of a systm for research, planning,
and developmental activities in population education.
iv.   Preparation and production of basic reference materials, guide
books, collections of readings, and reading materials in the
field of population education, including ecology, demography,
economics, health education, etc.
v.   Identification of research needs in the field of population
education and preparation of research proposals and designs.



ANNEX 30
Page 5 of 6
b.   1973-7L4
Indonesia and abroad.
ii.   Development of regional training seminars in six key priority
districts where family planning programs are being emphasized.
iii.   Folow-up pilot implementation projects in each of the districts
so as to determine problems and wprospects for large-scale pro-
gram implementation.
iv.   Preparation of plans and prograr,s for population education
programs in Indonesian second 5-year plan (1974-79).
c. 1974-75
i.   Finalization of plans and strategies for project Laplementation
during the second 5-year develcpment plan.
ii.   Revision of instructional materials based upon experience and
research from six pilot projects at district level.
iii.   Preparation for large-scale publication of instractional
materials.
iv.   Expansion of program implemeni;ation into the provinces, con-
centrating upon critical priority areas of Java and Bali.
V.   Implementation of large-scale publication and distribution of
instructional materials to ke:y provinces.
vi.   Expansion of teacher trainintg programs in key areas.
vii.   Implermentation of research into the effects of population
education program upon the ,ationwide family plaanr .ng program.
d.   1975-76 - 1976-77
i.   Continuation of program impLementation.
ii.   Continuation of specialized. overseas training for key personnel,
especially from the provin.nes.
iii.   Completion of large-scale grovernmental assistance to publication
and distribution of instrur.tional materials.
iv.   Expansion of use of mass media for populatiorn education, based
upon result of pilot studies and pernding a:vailability of
educational broadcasting rnetwork.



Costs
14.       The costs of the population education component are estimated
as follows:
Item               1972-73   197                 1975-76  1976-77    Total
U.S.$     U.S.      U.S$      U.S;     U.S.$     U.S.$
Advisory Services   55,000    60,000   65,000    70,000    75,000   325,,000
Fellowships         30,C00    80,000   80,000    40,000    10,000   240,000
Seminars, Workshops
and In-Service
Training          22,000    15,000    8,000    10,000     5,Oo     60,ooo
Equipment           16,000    30,000    27,000    6,000     6,0o0    85,000
Production of
Instruction
Materials          5,000    30,000    25,000   25,000    15s000   100,000
Subcontracts        45,000    40,000   30,000    25,000    23,000   163,000
Transport         4,000             -         -              -        4,000
TOTAL              177,000   255,000  235,000   176,000   134,,000  977,(00



ANNEX 31
Table 1
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(U.S.$ - In thousands)
Civil Works
Equipment &                 Technical Assistance
Furniture Profes- Vehicles,               Research/     Operating Costs
Con-  For Con- sional Spares & Advisory Fellow- Survey               Mainte- Equip-            Per
Item                   struction struction  Fees  Freight  Services ships Funds     Personnel  nance    ment   Total   centage
Paramedical Education   3,312.5    310.0  282.0     60.8      -       -      -         363.5   170.0     15.0  4,513.8   16.7
MCH/FP Centers          3,058.2    425.1  282.6        -      -        -     -          -       -         -     3,765.9  14.0
Family Planning Training 1,768.0   238.9  118.9    152.0      -      200.0   -         358.0   173.0     65.0   3,073.8  11.4
Nonmedical Field
Workers 8                         -      -        745.0     -        -     -       3,097.0    200.0     -     4,042.0  15.0
Evaluation and Research   269.2      6.5    3.8     36.6     760.0  204.0  1,500.0     473.2   168.5    148.9   3,570.7  13.2
Family Planning
Administration Centers  661.1     99.5   47.3     26.8      -       -      -           8.0    -        39.0     881.7   3.3
Other Transport
Requirements             -        -      -        973.0    195.0     -      20.0       4.5    -        50.0   1,242.5   4.6
Hospital Postpartum
Program                  -        -      -        28.4      60.0    -       40.0   1,671.0    36.0     43.0   1,878.4   6.9
Information and
Commsunications          -        -      -       589.5      72.0   57.0    100.0     207.0   322.0    725.0  2,072.5    7.7
Population Education       -        -      -         4.0     325.0  240.0    163.0     60.0    100.0     85.0    977.0    3.6
Advisory Team              -        -      -         6.0     340.0    -      -          18.0    30.0     50.0    444.0    1.6
Project Implementation     -        -      -          -      438.0   24.0    -          41.0    25.0     10.0    538.0    2.0
TOTAL                   9,069.0  1,080.0  734.6   2,622.1  2,190.0   725.0  1,823.0  6,301.2  1,224.5  1,230.9  27,000.3  100.0
Contingencies                                                                                                   5,956.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                                                            32,956.3
Table 2
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
Per-
centage of
Rp (In thousands)                   U.S.$ (In thousands)           Foreign
Item                               Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign      Total      Exchange
Civil Works:
Construction                   2,258,181    1,505,454    3,763,635    5,441.4      3,627.6     9,069.0        40
Furniture and Equipment           89,640      358,560      448,200       216.0       864.0     1,080.0        80
Professional Fees                274,357       30,502      304,859      661.1         73.5       734.6        10
Vehicles                           217,626      870,545    1,088,171      524.4      2,097.7     2,622.1        80
Technical Assistance;
Advisory Services                227,212      681,638      493,850      547.5      1,642.5     2,190.0        75
Fellowships                      105,285      195,590      300,875      253.7        471.3       725.0        65
Research/Survey Funds            680,890       75,655      756,545     1,640.7       182.3     1,823.0        10
Equipment                           51,087      459,737      510,824      123.1      1,107.8     1,230.9        90
Operating Costs:
Personnel                      2,614,998         -       2,614,998     6,301.2        -        6,301.2        -
Mainteanance                      457,372      50,796      508,168     1,102.1       122.4      1,224.5       10
Conitingencies                   1.483.044      988,696    2.471,740    3,573.6      2.382.4     5.956.0        40
TOTAL                            8,459,692    5,217,173   13,676,865    20,384.8    12,571.5    32,956.3



ANNEX 32
Page l of 5
SUMRY OF CIVIL WORKS COST ESTINATESP                     o
Items             >ca----Forel-i                              - J   l;gl-
A. CLINICS 2/
1. MCH/FP Type A: Bji-34
Site preparation          358,560     239,0o40    597,600      864      576    1)4
Construction            1,792,:385  1,194,370   2,986,755    4,319    2,878    7    ,l9
Professional fees-        145,665      16,185     161,850      351       39      390
Furniture and equipment 107,485       429,940     537,425      259    1,036    1,295
Fees for furniture and
equ.ipmentW              24485        2_490      26,975       5         6       65
Subtotal                    2428,58o    174             0   5    , 4,1,0  2 '535  1 0, -,.-
Total for 34 clinics:      82,571,'20  63,988,850 146,560,570 198,968   154,190  353,15'
2.  MCH/FP Type Al: Central Djakarta - 9
Site preparation        1,638,420   1,092,280   2,730,700    3,948    2,632    6,580
Construction            8,201,645   5,467,210  13,668,855   19,763   13,174   32,937
Professional fees         617,935      68,475      686,410   1,489      165    1,654
Furniture and equipment   541,990   2,167,545    2,709,535   1,306    5,223    6,529
Fees for fur;Ature and
equipment               122,010      13 280     135,290      294       32      326
Subtotal                   11-,122,000  b,8o6,790  19,930,790            21,226      026
Total for 9 clinics:      100,098,000  79,279,110 179,377,110 241,200   191,034  432,234
3. MCH/FP Type A2.! Rural Djakarta - 8
Site preparation        1,180,260     786,840   1,967,100    2,844    1,896    4,740
Construction            7,082,805   4,718,550  11,801,355   17,,067  11,370   28,437
Professional fees         552,780      61,420     614,200    1,332      148    1,480
Furniture and equipment   353,995   1,415,980    1,769,975     853    3,412    4,265
Fees for furqi,ture and
equipment WI             79,680       8715       88,395      192       21      213
Subtotal                    9,249,520   6      ,      T1,025    221-6,241  T,0 7  39,135
Total for 8 clinics:       73,996,160  55,9329040 129,928,200 178,304   1134,776  313,080
4. MCH/FP Type A2: Surabaja - 11
Site preparation        1,180,260     786,840   1,967,000    2,844    1,896    4,740
Construction            7,082,805   4,718,550   11,801,355  17,067   11,370   28,437
Professional fees         552,780      61,420      614,200   1,332      148    1,480
Furniture and equipment   353,995   1,415,980   1,769,975      853    3,412    4,265
Fees for furpi ure and
equipment                79,680       8 715      38,395      192       21      213
Subtotal                    9,259,520   6,991505   T,2          22,2     16,847   39,135
Total for 11 clinics:     101,744,720  76,906,555 178,651,275 24.5,168  185,317  430,485
1/ These estimates naave been rounded in the suxwn,ary in $ection V of the Report.
2/ See Annex 33 (I) for type detaw.ls.
,,  sight oercent of the total construction cost (5% for repetitive wo:'I<) includes
3iupervision and printing costs and expenses.  &-te Jurveys, building permit taxes,
ana transportation are not included.
L/  Ten percent is included for design, selection, biddi: -, scheduling, supervising,
and testing, etc., with 5% allowed for rapetitive worx.



Page 2 of 5
,sp-                         U.S.$
Items                       I.c 11    Foreign     Total    Local   Foreign  Total
5. MCH/FP Type A3: Rural East Java - 16
-.Site. preparation       687,240     458,160  1,145,400   1,656   1,104    2,760
Construction          3,435,785  2,289,970   5,725,755  8,279    5,518  13,797
Professional fees 3/  ' 279,710     30,710     310,420    674      74      748
Furniture and equipment 206,255    824,190   1,030,445    497    1,986   2,483
Fees for fuxniture and
equipment 4/           46          4.9-80     51.46     112      12      12
Subtotal                        7    36554 7,608,010  8,263,480  11,218  B3  19,912
Total for 16 clinics:    74.487,520 57,728,160 132,215,680 179,488  139,104 318,592
6. MCH/F.P Type A4: Rural ELast Java - 15
Site preparation        622,500    415,000   1,037,500  1,500    1,000   2,500
Construction          2,863,500  1,909,000   4,772,500  6,900    4,600  11,500
Professional fees 3/    242,775     26,975     269,750    585       65     650
Furniture and equipment 186,750    747,000     933,750    450    1,800   2,250
Fees for furniture and
equipment4             41.o85      4 565     45.650      99      11      110
Subtotal          3,            102,540         7,059,150      3     7,47   17,010
Total for 15 clinics:    590349,150 46,538100Q 105,887,250 143,010 112,140 255,150
7. MCHP Type B: Rural East Java-
Site preparation        249,000    166,000    415,000     600      400   1,000
Construction          1,515,165  1,010,110  ,2,525,275  3,651    2,434   6,085
Professional fees 3/    117,860     12,865     130,725    284      31      315
Furniture and ecuipment  75,945    302,535     378,480    183     729      912
Fees for furniture and
equipment 4            17,015      1,660      18 675     41       4       45
Subtotal                  1,974,985  1,493,170  3,468,155  L4,759   3,9      8,37
Total for 184 clinics:  363,397,240 274,743,280 638,140,520 875,656 662,032 1537,688
B. NEPCB FACILITIES
1. NFPCB Headquarters Building -_Djakcarta
Site preparation
and services       10,487,880  6,991,920  17,479,800 25,272   16,848  42,120
Construction         52,439,400 34,959,600 87,399,000 126,360   84,240 210,600
Professional fees 3/  8,781,400    975,665   9',757,065 21,160   2,351  23,511
Fumiture and equipment2,950x650  11,802,600 14,753,250  7,110   28,440  35,550
Fees for furpiture and
equipment 4/        1,328,000    147.325   1   75     3.200 -    355   35
Total                   75,987 330  54P,77010 130,864,44 183,102  132,23  315,336
2. NFPCB Provincial, Offices  Surabaja
Site preparation
and services        3,652,415  2,435s220   63,087,635  8,801   5,868  14,669
Construction         13,294,940  8,863,570 22,158,510 32,036    21.,358  53,394
Professional Fee&V    1,245,000    830,000   2,075,000  3,000    2,000   5,O00
Furnitt'.re and equipment2,639,400  1,759,600  4,399,000  6,360  4,240  iO,6.r
Fees for furture and
equipm entif          263,940    175,960    1Q9.900            ___424  1,060
Total                    21,*095,695  14,0&.,350 35v160,O45 50,833  33,890  84,723



ANNEX 32
Page 3 of 5
. .U. S.$
Item                           Local     Fora&gn     Total      Local   Forxeig4  Total
3. NFPCB Provincial Offices - Semarang              as Dlakarta, Denpasar and Bandung
Site preparation
and services          3,652,415   2,435,220   6,087,635   8,801     5,868   14,669
Construction           13,294,940   8,863,570  22,158,510   32,036   21,358   53,394
Professional FeesY/       622,500     415,000   1,037,5C)0   1,500    1,000    2,50X
Fmuiture and equipment2,639,400     1 ,759.,600  4,399,0CI0  6,360    4,240   10,60o
Feets for furniture and
equipmentL4/             82,170         780     136.950      198      132      330
Total                      20,291,425 T3,1870      33,519,59.15          32,59 9    ,T493
C.  A1$4 AN) NMW SCHOOLS
1.  Blitar - 240 AMI Studenta
Site preparation       24,236,000  16,156,780  40,392,780  58,400    38,932   97,332
Construction          108,730,415  72,486,805 181,217,220 262,001   174,667 436,668
Professional fees I/   18,532,240   2,058,815  20,591,055   44,656    4,961   49,617
Furniture and equipment3,379,760   13,518,210  16,897,970   8,144    32,574   40,718
Fees for fu qiture and
equipment 41520-560                 168,90o5  16-9 689 65  3,664      407    4,071
Total                     1563997 104,389,515       06,490 376,865      251,541  628i06
2.  Surabaja - 240 NSi Students
Site preparation
and services         24,236,000  16,156,780  40,392,780  58,400    38,932   97,332
Construction          108,730,415  72,486,805 181,217,220 262,00i   174,667  436,668
Professional fees L/ 18,532,240     2,058,815  20,591,055   44,656    4,961   49,617
Furniture and equipment3,379,760   13,518,210  16,897,970    8,144   32,574   40,718
Fees for furp.;ture and
equipment W           1,520.560     168.905   1,689,465   3 664       407    4j071
Total                    T1398,975 104,389,515 26078 490 3'T            251,5416
3. Malang - 240 ANM Students
Site preparation       24,236,000  16,156,780  40,392,780   58,400   38,932   97,332
Construction          108,730,415  72,486,805 181,217,220 262,001   174,667  436,668
Professional fees 3i 11,582,235     1,286,915  12,869,150   27,909    3J!r    31,010
Fumriture and equipment3,379,760   13,518,210  16,897,970   8,144    32,3b.   40,718
Fees for furpiture and
equipDment 4/           608.390      67.230     675,620    '          162    1,628
Total                    TZ48,536B    103515940 2529052,740 W      920 249,4     6073
4. Tuban - 11,5      Students
Site preparation
and se.,,,vices      11,787,660   7,857,610  19,645,270  28,404    18,934   47,338
Construction           58,998,475  39,332,040  98,330,515 142,165    94,776  236,941
Professional fees  9/ 9,878,660     1,097,260  10,975,920   23,,804   2,644   26,448
Furniture and equipment2,437,295    9,748,765  12,186,060    5,,873  23,491   29,364
Fees for furr4ture and
equipment             1,096-845      M.595    1,218,440o   2,643      293    2,936
Total                      6431'98s39 35 .-8573270 142,536,205 202,;89  140,138  343,027



ANNEX 32
Page 4 of 5
U.S.$
Item                         Local     Foxeign     Total     Local   Foreign   Total
5. Maretan - llSAN( Students
Site preparation      11,787,245   7,8581,025  19,645,270  28,403  18,935  47,338
Construction          58,998,475 39,332,040  98,330,515 142,165   94,776 236,941
Professional fees 3/   6,173,955    685,995   6,859,950  14,877    1,653   16,590
Furniture and equipment2,437,295  9,748,765  12,1 6,060   5,873   23,491   29,3b4
Fees for frWture and                                210 19235    13   7     1,37
Total                    41 32                0                           17 192.
Ttl                79,835,625   ;303 - _137, 09,05 12375       138,972  3,37
6. Two additional schools
at SUrber Waras
and Husada similar
to Magetan          159,671,250 115,346,760 275,018,010 384,750 277,944   6c2,694
7. Denpasar - 70 AM Students
Site preparation       7,932,310  5,287,,930  13,220,240  19,114  12,742   31,856
Construction         39,661,550  26,440,480  66,102,030 95,570    63,712  159,282
Professional fees 31   6,6141,660   737,870   7,379,530  16,004    1,778   17,782
Furniture and equi4m.vnt1,703,575  6,813,470  8,517,045   4,105   16,418   20, 523
Fees for furniture and
equipmentW             766505      85.075     851,580   1,847      205    2 052
Total                    56-,705;6-oo 39g 64                136b,64 ,65 21
8. Two additional RSU
facilities at
Rangkasbitung and
Kebumen similar
to Derpasar          113,411,200  78,729,650 192,140,850 273,280  189,710 462,990
D. PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTERS
1. Djakarta
Site preparation       6,199,270  4,132,570  10,331,840  14,938    9,958   24,896
Construction          30,997,180  20,664,510 51,661,690  74,692   49,794  124,486
Professional fees 3/   5,019,840    557,345   5,577,185  12,096    1,343   13,439
Furniture and equipmentl,779,105  6,783,175   8,562,280   4,287   16,345   20,632
Fees for fux4ture and
equipment 4/           770,655     85,8690    8  ,145   187        206    2,063
Total                    U4,766,050  32,223,090  761989,14B  1T07,70  77,646  185,51



ANNEX 32
Page 5 of 5e
Ite-Rp                       U.S .$
Items                         Local     Foreign     Total     Locel  Foreign    Total
2. S ;rabaj a
Site preparation       6,199,270   4,132,570  10,331,840  14,938    9,958   24.,89/3
Construction          30,997,180 20,664,510   51,661,690  74,692   49,794  124,486
Professional fees 2/   3,137,400     348,185   3,485,585   7,560      839    8,395
Furnituie and equipmentl,712,705   6,849,575   8,562,280   4,127   16,505   20,632
F(ees fo.r fu*i ture and
equri4ent35                         31030      342 375     743       82      825
Total.                    42,54,900   32,026,8 743370 102,060         7T7iT7 179,238
3. F"our additional PTCs
at Semarang, West Java,
DiogJakarta, and
Dlenpasar            169,419, 600 128,115,480 297,535, 080 408,240 308,712 716,952
E. SUBTRAINING CENTERS
1. D ber
Site preparation       3,617,555   2,411,565   6,029,120   8,717    5,811   14,528
Constriuction         18,088,190  12,058,240  30,146,430  43,586   29,056   72,642
Professional fees 3/   2,929,070     325,360   3,254,430   7,058      784    7,842
Furniture and equipment 955,745    3,821,735   4,777,480   2,303    9,209   11,512
Fees for furniture and
e9quipment 4/       -  429,940      47725          665   1,036      115    1,151
Total                     26, 020,00  1,664,      1685,125    62,700   44,97   107,675
2. M    .
Site preparation       3,617,555   2,411,565   6,029,120   8,717    5,811  1I4,528
Construction          18,088,190  12,058,240  30,146,430  43,586   29,056   72,642
Professional fees 3/   1,830,565     203s,350  2,033,915   4,411      490    4,901
Furniture and equipment 955,745    3,821,735   4,,777,480  2,303    9,209   11,512
Fees for furnitur and
equipment 4/           171 810      19 090     190 900     414       46      460
Total 15                1    8,9 43077,8  59,431  44,612 0L4I3
3. Eiglt additional STCs
at Madiun, Blitar,
Temanggung, BanJumas,
Sukabumi, Bogor,
Tjirebong and        197,310,920 148,111,840 345,422,760 475,448 356,896 832,344
Ambawawa



ANNEX 33
Page 1 of 5
SCHEDULE OF ACCONMODATION
I. PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTERS
a.   Location:      DJakarta            West Java
Surabaja            Denpasar
Semarang            Djogjakarta
b.   For            25 Male and 25 female students, a supervi.sor and staff.
2
c.   Space   :      Hostel Accommodation                   500
Common (Library, multi-purpose
hall, kitchen, storage)              350
Adminiistration                         25
TeachiLng and Conference               385
Staff IAccomoodation                   236
TOTAL       1 ,496
II. SUBTRAINING CENTERS
a.   Location:      Djember             Bangumas
Malang              Sukabuni Bogor
Blitar              Bandung
Temanggung
b.   For            10 Male and 20 female students, a supervisor and staff.
M2
c.   Space   :      Hostel Accomaodation                   100
Common (Library, multi-purpose
hall, kitchen, storage)              190
Administration                          15
Teaching and Conference                240
Staff Acconmodation                    192
TOTAL         737
III. AN4 SCHOOLS!/
a.   Location:      Tuban               Sumber Waras
Magetan             Husada (Djakarta)
b.   For     :      115 Female students, a supervisor and staff of 10.
M2
c.   Space   s      Hostel Accommodation (Double           828
bunks, sick bay, toilets,
common romn)
1/ Each school to graduate 50 students annually.



ANNEX 33
Page 2 of 5
III. AIM SCHOOLS  (Cont'd.)
Common (Library, multi-purpose
ha:Ll,, kitchen, storage)            529
Administration                          57 5
Teaching and Conference              1,403
Staff Acc:ommodation                 1,100
TOTAL       3,91?.5
IV. ANM SCHOOLS1/
a.   Location:      Blitar and Malang
b.   For     :      240 Femal.e students, a supervisor and staff of 20.
M2
c.   Space   :      Hostel Accommodation (Double        1,68o
bunks, sick bay, toilets,
common room)
Common (Library, multi-purpose
room, kitchen, storage)             624
Administration                         120
Teaching and Conference              2,928
Staff Accommodation                    942
TOTAL       6,292
V.   AN! SCHOOLS2/
a.   Location:      Denpasar, Rangkasbitung, and Kebumen
b.   For     :      70 Female students, a supervisor and staff of 6.
'2
c.   Space   :      Hostel Accommodation (Double          539
bunks, sick bay, toilets,
common room)
Common (Library, multi-purpose
room, kitchen, storage)             420
Administration                          60
Teaching and Conference                854
Staff Accommodation                   324
TOTAL       2,197
1/ Each school to graduate 100 students annually.
2/ Each school to graduate 30 students annually.



ANNEX 33
Page 3 of 5
VI. NURSE -MDWInE SCHOOLY
a.   Location:      Surabaja
lb.  For     :      240 Female students
M2
c.   Space   :      Hostel Accommodation (Double
bunks, sick bay, toilets,
comon room)                        1,680
Common (Library, multi-purpose
roma, kitchen, storage)              624
Administration                         120
Teaching and Conference              2,928
TOTAL       5,52
VII. NlFPCB PROVINCIAL OFEICES
a ,  Location:      Surabaja amd Djogjaka;rta
b.   For     :      40 Personniel
c.   Space   :      Administration and Meeting Room        T
General Office                          90
Conference                              32
Six Bureaus                            216
Store and Warehouse                    150
CirculatiLon, Toilets                  218
TOTAL         861
VIII. NF?PCB HEADQUARTERS
a.   Location:      Djakarta
M'
b.   Space   .      Administration
General Office                         360
Six Bureaus                            675
Common: Library                         60
Lecture                       120
Reception                      60
Co!uittee                      30
Canteen                       240
Circulation, Toilets                  288
Store and Warehouses                   300
TOTAL       2,208
1/ To graduate 50 students anniually.



IX. MCH/FP CLINICS
a.   Type    :      Type A Clinic (District) - 34 Bali
b.   For            1 Doctor, 1 supervisory midwife, 1 nurse-midwife,
and 1 ANM.
c.   Space   :      Doctor's Office (1)
Consulting Roam (1)
Examination Rooms (2)              Total Built Area
Storage, Kitchen
Circulation, Toilets                     127 M2
Waiting Area (Verandah)
X.   MCH/FP CLINICS
a.   Type           Type A.1 Clinic - Type A + 20 Maternity Bed Ward
9 Central Djakarta
b.   Space          4/4 Bed Rooms
2/2 Bed Rooms
Nursing
Labor and Delivery Rooms           Total Built Area
SS Store
Kitchen, Laundry                        127 M2
Toilets                               + 390
Circulation and Storage                 517 M2
XI. MCH/FP CLINICS
a.   Type    :      rype A.2 Clinic - Type A + 10 Meternity Bed Ward
- 8 Rural Djakarta, 11 Surabaja
b.   Space    :     2/4 Bed Rooms            1
2/1 Bed l?ooms                     Total Built Area
Labor and Delivery Rooms
SS Store                                 127 M2
Kitchen, Laundry                      + 22
Toilets                  j              373 M
Circulation and Storage
XII. MCH/FP CLINICS
a.   )e      :      Type A.3 Clinic   Type A + Accommodation for
field staff and dormitory for
4 ANN trainees.
- 16 Rural East Java
19.  mEce           4-Bed Dornitory                    Total Built Area
2/3-Person Offices                           2
Toilets, Storage,                        127 M
C(irculation                          + 100
227 M2



XIII. MCH/FP CLINICS
a.   Type    :      Type A.4 ClJlnic - Type A + Accommodation for
field staff.
- 15 Rural East Java
b.   Space    :     2/3-Person COffices                Total Built Area
Toilets, Storage,                       127 M2
Circulation                           +100
w;7 M2
XIX. MCH/FP CLINICS
a.   Type           Type B Clinic- (Sub-District) - 199 Rural East Java
- 38 Demon3tration
Field Postpartum
Progrkm.
b.   Space    :     Combined Consulting and
Examination Room
Office                             Total. Built Area
Waiting Area (Vearandah)
Storage, Toilets,                        95 H2
Circulation
Bed Sitting Room



ANNEX 34
Page 1 of 23
PROJECT IMPIEMENTATION UNIT
1.        This annex describes the structure and functions of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) which will be attached to the NFPCB.
2.        The unit will be directed by the Deputy Chainnan (Program Manage-
ment) of the NFPCB. He will be assisted by a Project IAplementation Com-
mittee (PIC) comprising representatives of the NFPCB and the Ministries of
Health, Information, Finance and Interior, as well as representatives of the
international agencies and private foreign foundations involved in the imple-
mentation of the project. Its functions will be to provide inter-ministry
coordination, to resolve implementation problems proving intractable by the
construction and techniical assistance coordinators, and to provide effective
liaison with non-Indonesian agencies assisting in project implementation.
3.       In addition to providing administrative, accounting, and clerical
services, the PIIJ will comprise two technical sections responsible respectively
for the implementation of the civil works and program (nionconstruction) components
of the project (the structure of the PItU is shown diagrammatically in Appiondix A).
a.   The civil works section will be in the charge of a Construction Co-
ordinator, who will be provided with the technical personnel and
facilities necessary to ensure its efficient functioning. The
functions of this section are detailed in Appendix B, and the Con-
struction Coordinator would be responsible, inter alia, for the
technical aspects of the civil works componene; of the project and
for liaison with the agencies concerned in its execution. The latter
would include the Hospital Design Workshop of the School of Archi-
tecture of the Institute of Technology, Bandung, led by the Ibputy
Head of the School, who would be referred to as the Appointed
Architect. The Appointed Architect, whose functions are shown in
Appendix C, would be responsible, inter alia, for proper environ-
mental and constructional standards, as well as general supervision
of the implementation and the execution of thei project's con.struction
component. Such components would be packaged for tendering according
to recommendations agreed upon between the Construction Coordinator
and the Appointed Architect. The detailed supervision of the con-
struction sub-components would be the responsiLbility of the Ministry
of Works and its provincial directorates.
b.   The program section of the PIU will be headed by a Program Input
Coordinator, who will be responsible for the coordination of
procurement arrangements for the program inputs of the project,
including transport and equipment, and materias not connected
with civil works. His funlcions are shown in Appendix Do He
would also be responsible fo: the coordination of technical
assistance arrangemeni-s. *C-e- administration of fellowships and
study tours, both inside and outs-de Indonesia, in cooperation
with the appropriate agency responsible for technical direction,
and for the disbursements of the nonconstruction components of
the project.



ANE 34
Page 2 of 23
c.   The two sections would have a jo.nt staff comprising an accountant,
procurement officer, three surveyrors, three draftsmen, five cleri.cal
staff, and drivers.
4.        A team of management consultants will be retained to advise and
support the Director of the PIU on all matters concerning the management and
realization of the project. An outline of the functions the consultants
wDuld be expected to perform is in Appendi:x E of this annex.
5.        Provision is made under this component for the following costs:
I tem               1972-73   1973-74   19L74-75  1975-76  1976-77    Total.
U.S.$     U.S.$     U.S       U..          W .SU.s.
Technical Assistancs.i/
Fellows'hips      12.,000   12 ,000     -                  -       24,000
Management
Consiltants    150,000   125,000   100,000   63,000      -      438,000
pEratting Costs
Staff2!/           8,000     8,000     83.00o    8,000    9,000    41 ,000
Maintenance        5,000     5,000     5,000    5,000      5,000   25,000
Ecquipmnt            8,000     2 ,000               -                10,000
TO1TAL             183.,000  152 ,000  113,000   76, 000   1 4,000  538 , 000 &
Ti/ Provision for the consulting firm is made under the head (Df professional
fees in the civil works estimates.
2/ Includes provision for 1 Deputy Chairman (Program Management), 2 executive
assistants, construction coordinator, program input coord:inator, accountant,
procurement officer, 3 surveyors, 3 drSftsmen, and 5 clerLcal staff.



INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
PROJECT IMPLEMENT-ATION COMMITTEE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTRY OF INFORiMATION
MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR
MINISTRY OF WORKS
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
INTERNATIONAL AGENCIES
P IU                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
DIRECTOR
I    (DEPUTY
/  CHAI RMAN   \
>                Z    ~P ROG RAM
MANAGEMENT
N FPCB)
MINISTRY OF          APPOINTED                                                                          NFPCB
WORKS              ARCHITECT                                                                         BUREAUS
*                                                                                                    _
|   /        /              \    /   PROGRAM   \
CONSTRUCTION            INPUT
COORDINATOR         COORDINATOR                                           OTHER
|   s                                \                                ]      AND
AGENCIES
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS
_I                      /                                                                      _
____/                             ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF              \IL             NN
IMPLEMENTING
PROVINCIAL                                                                                              UNITS
DI RECTORATES                                                                                        (MINISTRY OF
OF THE           CONTRACTORS                                                                         HEALTH,
MiNISTRY OF                                                                                          MINISTRY OF                      D
WORKS                                                                                               EDUCATION,                   CDz m
ETC.)                         M m
W   X X
World Bank-6564



APPENDIX B
to ANNEX 34
Page 4 of 23
CIVIL WORKS SECTICZ OF THE PIU
1.        The Civil Works Section of the Project Implementation Unit will be
in the charge of the Construction Coordinator, and will be provided with the
technical personnel and facilities necessary to insure the efficient functioning
of the section.
2.        The Construction Coordinator will work under the general direction of
the PIU Director, and will maintain close cooperation with the relevant units
of the Government (Health, Family Planning, Works, Town. Planning ). With
their assistance, the Construction Coordinator will act as technical and
planning coordinator to the PIUf and make arrangements for briefing the
Appointed Architect and ensuring that the project is carried out in accordance
with that brief. The Construction Coordinator will assist the Appointed
Architect in obtaining whatever background data are required and in producing
user requirement schedules, outline and final schemes and estimates.
3.        The Civil Works Section will be responsible for the following matters:
A cninistrative
a.   preparation of a comprehensive implementation chart showing the
planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities,
on the basis of which all aspects of the civil works will be carried
out, and which will be prepared as the first step in implementing
the project; and the planned timetable shall not be put into effect
without the Bank being first given reasonable opportunity to comment
on it;
b.   jointly with the Appointed Architect, for all matters concerning
the establishment of standards, user requirements, equipment lists,
space schedules and the preparation of schematic and final designs
for construction components and their cost estimates;
c.   agreeing with the Appointed Architect and the appropriate agencies
of the Borrower for the production of tender cocuments; contract
documents and .upervision of the execution of the works;
d.   arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of architectural and engineering reports, plans, specifications.,
and other submitted material.
4.        It will ensure continuity in the project by the following:
a.   arranging for the assembly of all information, relating to site and
site condi.tions of the project institutions;
b.   maintaining liaison with the Ministry of Health, as well as the
other user agencies involved in the project, representatives of the
ultimate buildirng users and obtaining background data with regard to
detail environmental requirements;



APPENDIX B
to ANNEX 34
Page 5 of 23
c.   reviewing architectural drawings irn detail to ensure that space
provisions and specifications have been interpreted so as .to mini-
mize changes and alterations both during final design phase and
construction, and to ensure the satisfactory interpretation of user
requirements into proposals;
d.   liaising between the Appointed Architect and the user agency in
all matters of adaptation and impleinmtation of materials and
detailing which may require the production of rapid alternative
detail designs;
e.   preparing tendering and bidding procedures, and obtaining and
checking the lists of equipment and furniture for the project
buildings, advise on packaging and grouping of bid components;
f.   advising on and observing the adjudication procedure performed by
the Appointed Architect and making final recommendations on the
award of contracts to the Deputy Chairman (Program Managenent) of NFPCB;
g.   taking all steps required to ensure that furniture and eq-uipment
are designed and installed according to specifications, as well as
insuriing timely procurement for use according to schedule,;
h.   processing and expediting all the Appointed Architect's cortificates
for payment of contractors submitted from the local firms3, and
forwarding to the accountant of the project unit when advised for
payment, and to observe and implement the Association's prlocurement
procedure;
i.   evaluating progress, receiving the Appointed Architect's weekly
progress reports and submitting a monthly progress report to the
PIU Director (Deputy Chairman (Program Manag nent) of the NFPCB).



APPENDIX C
to ANNEX 34
Page 6 of 23
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES TO BE PERFORMED
BY THE APPOINTED ARCHITECT, AND SUPER-
VISICN OF THE EXECUTICa OF THE WORKS
BY THE MINISTRY OF WORKS
A. Schematic and Master Plamnix;
1.        Preliminary investigation and the preparation of studies of the
project with recommendations and ecomomic and financial justification for the
Physical requirements, to enable the NFPCB to agree with the Appointed Archi-
tect on the general outline and form in which the civil works component of the
project is to proceed, ensuring that it is feasible functionally, technically,
and financially; includng in particular:
2.        Taking the instructions of the NFPCB regarding: /
a.   Types of unit and functions.
b.   Numbers of staff and users (male/female).
c.   Target performance data of each facility.
d.   Methods,, sizes of units and kinds of spaces and
volumes required.
e.   Preliminary :Lists of furniture and equipment required.
f.   Requirexnents for users' living and recreational
faciliti.es and policies to be followed.
g.   Requirem.ents for staff and students' housing and
policy to be followed.
n.   Supervision, administration, and organization.
i.   Policy for future expansion.
j.   Cost limits.
k.   Location of the sites, dates for legal possession and
any limitations or special provisions of the FPCB's
legal title.
3.        Consulting with and advising the NFPCB and the Construction Coordinator,
investigating the Board's requirements and preparing analyses, schedules and
other data to enable,the Board to agree on general planning policy for the
project, including:-
1/   The data which the NFPCB undertakes to furnish as instructions to the
Architect and the times by which it shalL be made available shall be
stated in their Agreement.
2/   The times at wihich the NFPCB and the Construction Coordinator undertake to
be av-ailable for consultations and the time by which the general planning
policy shall be decided'shall be stat+ed in the Agreement with the Architect.



APPENDIX C
to ANiEX 34
Page 7 of 23
a.   Outlines of each facility when fully expanded with the main phases
of proposed development and target dates.
b.   General policy as to: quality versus quantity;  capital costs
versus maintenance costs; compactness versus spread; fixity
versus flexibility; designed life of buildings.
c.   Other major issues affecting the over-all planning of the project.
4.        Consulting with the Construction Coordinator and advising the NFPCB,
investigating the Board's requirements and preparing analyses, schedules and
other data to enable the Board to agree, inter alia: 1t
a.   Economic room-loading and fixed medical equipment loading analyses
based on the functions, sizes of tnits, methods, spaces and
volumes requirel.
b.   Economic space standards.
c.   Schedules of areas of accommodation to be provided and their
proposed uses.
5e        Visiting all sites and investigating local conditions as they affect
the project, including:
at   Local building traditions.
b.   Available standard designs, criteria, etc.
c.   Estimating and cost data.
d.   Building contracts and procedures for selecting contractors.
e.   Materials2 goods and equipment available locally and procurement
procedures.
f.   Local contractors and labor.
g.   Town planning, building or other pertinent legislation, regulations
codes of proctice, etc.
h.   Reporting to the Construction Coordinator and the NFPCB on the
above.
6.        Briefing the relevant section of the Ministry of Wobks to obtain
the site surveys, including: 2/
I/   The times at which the NFPCB ar.d the Construction Coordinator untertake to
be available and the times by which data shall be submitted to the NFPCB for
approval shall be stated in the Agreement with the Appointed Architect.
2/   The surveys and investigat;ions wi-ch the NMnistr! of Works shall prepare
and the times by which they shall be ccmpleted shall be stated in the
Ageeement with the Architect.



APPENDIX C
to AiNEX 34
Pag    of 23
a.   Topographic survey with site boundaries, existing buildings,
utility services, appropriate contours and principal surface
vegetation.
b.   Climatic survey with available data on rainfall, winds, tem-
perature, humidity, weather conditions and seismdc forces.
c.   Preliminary assessment of the sub-soil characteristics.
d.   Receiving and scrutinizing the surveys and reporting to the
Construction Coordinator and the NFPCB.
7.        Investigating sound and proved technical codes of practice applicable
to the project and to local conditions and establishing basic design criteria
as they effect:
a.   Daylight, sunlight and ventilation and orientation.
b.   Weather protection.
c.   Sound insulation.
d.   PrecauLtions against fire.
e.   Structural loadinge
f.   Acoustics0
g.   Engineering and utility services.
h.   Heating and thermal insulation.
i.   Durability and maintenance of both fabric and equipment.
j.   Precautions against vermin and dirt.
k.   Precautions to withstand natural hazards (earthquakes, hurricanes, etc.).
8.        Planning the overall site layouts of each project building and pre-
paring a comparative analysis of the merits and costs of alternatives investi-
gated, to enable the NFPCB and its Construction Coordinator to approve a plan
which offers the maximum value while fulfilling the following prime conditions:l/
a.   Units or departments shall be grouped whenever practicable to share
c;ommon facilities, allow for accreted growth and encourage the maximum
communication among the constituent parts of the institution.
1/   The time by which the Appointed Architect undertakes to submit the re-
commended overall site layout plan with a comparative analysis of the
alternatives investigated for the NFPCB's approval, shall be stated in
the Agreement.



APPENDIX C
to ANNEX 3h
Page 9 of 23
b.   The grouped buildings shall be sited to take full advangage of the
local climate and topography and, by prudent landscaping., improve
the ambience and micro-climate of the site.
9.        Consulting with the NFPCB and the Construction Coordinator about the
implementation of the project and advising and agreeing on:
a.   The breakdoun of the project into the most practical and economical
"bid packages" for procurement./
b.   The phasing of the "bid packages" in order of priority.
c.   Documents required to be prepared and procedures to be followed fcr
procuring construction (labor, materials and plant), medical equip-
ment (fixed and loose), books and furniTte "bid packages";
including advance ordering as necessary../
d.   Procedures to be followed for cost estinating and cost control.
e.   Staff required to implement procurement procedures and to provide
constant on-site supervision of the project.
10.       Preparing and agreeing with the NFPCB on an operational plan and
timetable for the most efficient, way to design, prepare procurement documents,
implement procurement prodecures, construct and sapervise the projact.
11.       Preparing a Master Plan Report in a suitable form for submitting to
tlhe NFPCB and the Association for approval, including:3
a.   Introduction: The functions and purposes of the proposed facilities
and swumary of the steps leading to the preparation of the Master Plan.
b.   Planning Policy: Statement of general over-all planning policies
with a summary of the factors considered and justification for
decisions reached.
i ,aicards: Summary of prrposed economic space standards and other
..asic design criteria related to safety, comfort, health, engineering
and lility services, local. climate, topography and social habits.
1/   By "bid package" is meant all the dra-wings and/or documer.ts needed to
proci;re competitively a group of units of construction, or items of
equipment or furniture. at one time and by means of a single contract.
2/   A-,y special conditions for procurement shall be stated in the Agreement.
3/   Lhe form arid content of the Miaster Plan Reoort; and drawings which the
A-.ointed Architect undertakes uo p2repare and the number of copies to be
firnished to the NFPCB and any other agency of the Goverrnment of Indonesia
by the &ime specified, shall be stated in th.,e -jeeement.



APPENDIX C
to S2NEX 34
Page 10 of 23
d.   Room-loading: Economic room-loading and fixed medical equipment-
loading analyses with conclusions and recommendations.
e.   Schedules of Accommodation: Schedules of net and gross areas of
accommodation required and their proposed uses,
f.   Planning Analysis: Suwmary of the steps leading to the selection
of the overall site layout plans including references to surveys,
NFPCBts instructions, decisions and approvals, critical planning
factors, comparative analysis of the costs and merits of the princi-
pal alternatives investigated and justification for the plan chosen.
g.   Specification Notes:  Summary of available local resources of labor
and materials with preliminary appraisal of appropriate specifica-
tions which offer the most economic balance between availability,
capital costs, maintenance and running costs, with justifications
for the selections made.
h.   Site Development Services: Schedule of site development services
sufficient for estimating purposes with the basic design criteria,
methods used for couputing the requirements and justification for
the proposals.
i.   Medical Equipment: Provisional lists of medical equipment and
estiniated costs.
j. Furniture: Provisional lists of loose furniture required and
estimated cost.
k.   Capital Cost:  Consisting of estimated
i.   Site development services and external site works generally;
ii.   Buildings and internal services;
iii.   Medical equipment - groups 1 and 2;
iv.   Furniture;
ve   Contingencies;
vi. Professional services;
vii.   Foreign exchange component of items (i) and (vi) above.
1.   Recurrent Cost: Consisting of the estimated runing and maintenance
costs of the buildings, services, equipment and site.
m    Ulnit Costs: Consisting of the unit costs used for estimating.



APPEINDI X C
t ANNEL14
Page 11 of 23
n.   Implementation:
i.   Proposed "bid packages" and procurement procedures;
ii.   Operation plan and timetable for the preparation of Sketch
Schemes, Final Designs, preparabion of "bid packages&', pro-
curement, construction and supervision of the project;
iii.   Quarterly forecast expendi.ures during the design and con-
struction of the project.
O.   Drawings:
i.   Location maps showing position of the site in relation to the
user catchment area, population densities, existing transport
facilities and available utility services;
ii.   Explanatory diagrams or drawings to illustrate the "Planning
Analysis" section of the report;
iii.   Site layout plans showing contours, existing buildings,
orientation, latitude, altitude, prevailing winds;  also showing
proposals for siting nc.* buildings, site development services,
roads, car parking, rec,.eation areas, landscaping, site perimeter
security and external site works generally;
iv.   Sito topographic contour survey to same scale as site layout
plan;
v.   Perspective or photographs of models when considered to be
necessary to convey the overall layout.
p.   Annexes:
i.   Site climatic survey including sun-path diagram, comfort zone
analysis charts and weather characteristics;
ii.   Assessment of the general nature of the subsc'l conditions
(subject to more detailed investigation);
iii.   Further data as required to supplement the text of the report.
B. Sketch Scheme
12.      The preparation of preliminary calculations, drawings, estimates,
outline specifications, schedules and other architectural and engirneering
documents necessary with economic and financial justifucationi for the design
to enable the proposals in the Master Plan for the construction of the works
to be submitted for the NFPCB and the Association to approve the basic design,
costs and program; including as may be necessary in the particular case:



APPENDIX C
to ANNNX 34
Page 12 of 23
13.       Revisions (if any) to the Master Plan.
14.      M4ayng arrangements for the Ministry of Works to prepare surveys,
including:
an   Sub-soil investigation to determine the nature of the sub-soil,
safe earth-bearing pressures and water characteristics of the site.
b.   Surveys of existing buildings with plans, sections, elevations and
report on their structural condition, and general state of weather
protection and mnaintenance.
c.   Other special investigations required.
1.       Consulting with and advising the NFPCB and the Construction Co-
ordinator,investigating the NFPCB's requirements and preparing analyses,
schedules and other data to enable the Board to decide, inter alia: 2r
a.   Space priorities in terms of need and completion dates.
b.   Requirements for individual internal spaces:
i.   Finishes
ii.   Engineering and utility services
iii.   Fittings
iv.   Equipment (building, madica.L, educationatl)
V.   Furniture
vi.   Acoustics
vii.   Sound insulation
c.   Circulation requirements
d.   Internal and external security and its supervision and control.
16.       Consulting with and advising the NFPCB and its representatives,
investigating the NFPCB's 'requirements and preparing aqalyses, schedules and
other data to enable the Board to agree, inter alia: 3/
1/ The surveys and investigation.s which the Ministry will prepare and the
times by wL-ich they shall be completed shall be stated in the Agreement.
2/   The times at which the NFPCB undertakesto be available for consultations and
the times by which decisions shall be made shiall be stated in the Agreemnent.
3/   The times at which the NFPCB undertakes to be available and the times by
which data shall be submitted to the Board for approval shall be stated
in the Agreement.



APPENDIX C
to AMEX 34
Page 13 of 23
a.   Principles of orientation to be followed.
b.   Thermal irnsulation, sun-screening, ventilation, etc.
c.   Means of escape and precautions against fire.
de   Building materials and techniques.
eO   Internal and external engineering and utility services.
f.   Roads and car parking.
g.   Site works, recreating areas and landscaping.
h.   Other special features of the buildings.
17.       Designing the buildings and other features and preparing comparative
analyses of the merits and costs of alternatives investigated, to enable the
NFPCB to approve designs which offer the maximum value while fulfilling the
following prime comditions:
a.   The basic deign criteria and requireants shall take full advantage
of local climatic and sub-soil conditions to define the minilmum
essentials required to permit sound practices to be followedl while
at all times safeguarding the occupants from possible ill effects
on heal-th, safety or general well-being.
b.   The materials and building techniques shall make the best use of
resources to meet the design criteria and requirements in a manner
which offers the most economic balance between capital costs,
maintenance and operating costs.
18.       Preparing a Sketch Scheme Report in a sr itable form for submitting
to the NFPCB for approval, including: f
a.   Introduction:  References to the Master Plan and to the "bid
packages" to which the sketch scheme refers.
b. Site Development Services: Summary of the developments in the
design of the site development services since the Master Plan was
approved, with justifications.
c.   Design Analysis:  Summary of the steps leading to the choice of
designs described in the Sketch Scheme, including references to
surveys, Client's decisions and approva'ls, critical design factors,
comparative analyses of the principal alternative solutions inves-
tigated and justification for the solution finally chosen.
1/   The form and content of the Sketch Scheme Report which the Architect
undertakes to prepare and the number of copies to be furnished to the
NFPCB shall be stated in the Agreement.



APPENDIX C
to ANi'iEX 34
Page )14 of 23
d.   Schedules of Acconmuodation:  Detailed schedules of gross and net
areas of accommodationi provided and their proposed uses, including
all the requirements for each individual internal space, also recre-
ation areas and vehicle parking.
e.   Outlinea Specification:  Outline specification of the proposed basic
designs with final appraisal aiid justification for selections made.
(This outline specification shall not be subject to modification
after the Sketch Scheme has been finally approved, except for reasons
of technical necessity.)
f.   Provisional Schedules:  Schedules of provisional design details,
finishes, building and medical equipment, furniture, etc., mainly
for estimating purposes, which may still be subject to modification
in the final design.
g.   Costs:  Schedules of approximate quantities, basic rates, assumptions
made and estimated margins of error.
h.   Capital Costs:  Estimates based on approximate quantities taken
from the Sketch Scheme Report, to include:
i.   Site development serv-ices and external site works generally;
ii.   Buildings and internal services;
iii.   Medical equipment - groups 1 and 2;
iv.   Furniture;
V.   Contingencies;
vi.   Professional services;
vii.   Foreign exchange component of items (i) to (vi) above.
i.   Recurrent Cost: Consisting of the estimated annual running and
maintenance costs of the buildings, services, equipment and site.
j.   Unit Costs: Consisting of the esti)iated net and gross cost Per user
place and per unit of area or bed for each basic type of accommo-
dation provided.
k.   Program:
i.   Operational plan and timetable for the final design, prcepa-
ration of contracts, procurement, construction and supervision
of this part of the project;
ii.   Quarterly forecast expenditures during the design and con-
struction of this part of the project.



APPBiDIX C
to ANNEX 34
1.   Drawings:
i.   Up-to-date Master Plan site layout plans;
ii.   Explanatory diagrams or drawings to illustrate the "lDesign
Analysis" section of the report;
iii    Design drawings (plans, sections and elevations) for each
building comrprising this part of the project;-
iv.   Perspectives or photographs of models when considered to be
niecessary to convey the design.
m.   Annexes:
i.   Report on the sub-soil investigation;
ii. Survey reports and drawings on existing buildings;
iii.   References to other special investigations or data required
to supplement the text of the report.
C. Final Design
19.       The preparation of calculations, drawings, est:imates, draft speci-
fications, draft schedules and other arohitectural and engineering documents
necessary to enable the NFPCB to approave the final design and estimates of
costs, which, once approved, shall not be changed except for reasons of tecA-
nical necessity, including as may be necessary in the particular case:
20.       Preparing architectural and engineering drawings, documents and
estimates, and consulting with the Construction Coordinator, the NFPCB, and
the Association to reach decisions and obtain approvals for:
a.   All design details not hitherto decided and agreed;
b.   Final schedules oil fixed equipment and furniture;
c.   Final estimates of costs;
d.   Final breakdown intol"bid packages" in order of priority with a
timetable for their preparation, procurement, and implementation.
1/   The scale and type of design drawings shall be stated in the
Agreement.
-   -  -m



APPENDIX C
to ANNEX 3h
Page 1c) of 23
21.       Preparing a Final Design Addendum to the Sketch Scheme Re rt in a
suitable form or submitting to the NFPCB for approval, including: -
a.   Final Schedules:  To replace the Provisional Schedules;
b.   Final Specifications:  Changes (if any) to the outline specifications;
c.   Final Costs:  Revised estimates of capital costs and recurrent costs;
d.   Final Program:
i. Revised operational plan and timetable for the preparation,
procurement and implementation of the "bid packages";
ii.   Revised quarterly forecast expenditures.
D. Contract Preparation
22.       The preparation of drawings and other documents will be part of
the duties of the Appointed Architect, possibly supplemented by local firms,
chosen and recommended to the NF'PCB by the Construction Coordinator. In
either case, the dr,ties to be performed are to be by agreement, and consist
of the following:
23.       Preparing architectural and engineering calculations, working
drawings, specifications, schedutles, bills of quantities, conditions of
tender, forms of contract and other necessary documents to describe, the
Works, medical equipment groups 1 and 2, and furniture adequately for "bid
packages" to ba tendered or otherwise ordered.
2h.       Pricing one set of bills of quantities for comparison with tender
prices and advising the NFPCB as to any material changes in the design,
specifications, schedul.es or estimates, from those approved in the rinal
Design.
25.       Assisting the NFPCB to obtain all final statutory approvals.
2o.       Advising the NFPCB together with the Construction Coordinator as
to the desirability for pre-qualification of bidders; agreeing on procedures
to be followed; preparing pre-qualification documents fcr the NFPCB to
approve; undertaking pre-qualification procedures on the Board's behalf and
in conjunction with the Construction Coordinator; analyzing the pre-quali-
fication data submitted by potential bidders and recommending lists of
selected contractors for approval.
27.       Undertaking or initiating procurement of the Board's behalf, for
those "bid packages" whicih need to be ordered in advance, and those for
which sub-contractors or suppliers should be nominated ahead of main contracts -
subject to placing acceptance orders, provided always that no order or
nomination is made without the NFPCB's authorization in writing.
1/   The form and content of the Final Design Addendum to the Sketch Scheme
Report which the Architect undertakes to prepare and the number of copies
to be furnished to the Client, shall be stated in the Agreement.



APPa'IDIX C
to ANNEX 34
Page 17 of 23
E. Tender
28.       Conducting approved tendering procedures for selecting contractors
and advising the NFPCB and the Construction Coordinator on placing contracts,
including as may be necessary in the particular case:
29.       Pre-selecting and inviting selected contractors to tender.
30.      Analyzing and adjudicating the tenders received and advising the
Board as to tenders, contractors, prices and estimates for the carrying out
of the Works, provided that no tender shall be accepted or order placed by
the Architect except on behalf of the NFPCB and with its authority in writing.
31.       Preparing tha contract dowuuments for signature.
F. Contract Mobilization
32.       The provision of the necessary additional information and instruc-
tions to enable the Contractor., the Ministry of Works, the Construction
Coordinator and all others concerned to make proper preparations before
starting work on the site, including as may be necessary in the particular case:
33.       Supplying the Contractor with .Anformation and instructions, including:
a.   Sufficient copies of drawings, specifications, schedules, bills
of quantities and other architectural and engineering documents
to enable him properly to fulfill his obligations under the con-
ditions of contract.
b.   Full information about: Advance orders placed, sub-contractors
and suppliers nominated, and the supply and installation of fixed
-     medical equipment and furniture.
c.   Instructions for placing acceptance F.'ters.
34.,      Advising the Contractor as to the preparation of a construction
schedule based on the Gritic:al Path 4ethod (CPM), taking into accouint the
work of all sub-contractors and the promised or anticipated delivery dates
for materials, plant, fixed medical equipment and furniture.
35.       Holding formal mobilization meetings jointly with the Ministry of
Works' representatives and the Construction Coordinator and distributing
the Minutes within 48 hours of the termination of the meeting - with the
Contractor and all those concerned in the performance of the contract,
including aLl sub-contractors and major suppliers, to ensure that:
a.   The conditions of contract are understood and apreciated.
b.   The ,;oligations of each towards the successful implementation of
the co.'struction sch.edule are feasible, understood and agreed.
c.   Adequate instructions and information have been received, including
access to site, way-leaves and basic setting out data and references.



APPENDIX C
to ANNEX 34
Pof 23
36.       Authorizing site work to start when the NFPCB has stated in -writing
that work may proceed and the Architect considers that cont-iact mobilization
is sufficiently advanced.
G. Construction
37.       The provision of constant on-site supervision during construction
to ensure that the architectural and engineering works are executed strictly
in accordance with the conditions of contract will be undertaken by the
Ministry of Works through its Regional Directorates in close liaison with the
Architect and the Construction Coordinator.
38.       The Ministry of Works' delegated inspectors will ensure that
Contractors have all the information needed for the proper execution of the
Works, including:
a.   Preparing and supplying further copies of the Appointed Architect's
drawings, specifications, schedules and other details.
b.   Issuing written site instructions, which will be submitted to the
Architect for confirmation.
c.   Issuing variation orders on behalf of the Client for minor alterations
as may be necessary or expedient. Substantial changes of an emergency
nature will be referred to the Appointed Architect for joint action.
d.   Examining and approving Contractors' details.
39.       The delegated site inspectors will provide constant on-site super-
vision to ensure that the conditions of the contract are strictly adhered to,
including:
a.   Preparing weekly site reports on the day-to-day state of the Works,
including progress of the Wbrks, labor, materials, plant, the weather,
hours lost, drawings and other information received, and visitors
to the site.
b.   Holding formal site meetings at least once per month and distributing
the M4inutes within 48 hours of the termination of the meeting.
c.   Advising the Architect and the Construction Coordinator on the
progress and quality of the Works and if the authorized expenditure
is likely to be exceeded or the contract time likely to be varied.
d.   Inspecting and testing during manufacture such materials, machinery
and plant as are usually inspected and tested by archicects and
consulting engineers.
e.   Supervising all architectural and engineering tests on site.



APPENDIX C
to AITNNEX J
Page 1Q oif 23
f.   Checking Contractor's Day Work Sheets when such work has been
authorized.
g.   Inspecting and measuring work done, materials and plant on site,
and preparing interim valuations for accounting and certificate
purposes.
h.   Taking prompt action to enforce the conditions of contracts and
adherence to the agreed construction schedule.
i.   At the time of certifying practical completion, preparing a
schedule of all contract items still to be finished, inspected
and approved, before final completion can be certified.
40.       The delegated site inspectors will assist the Architect in the
exercise of his discretionary powers vested in him by virtue of the contract,
including:
a.   Advising both the Architect and the Contractor as to the inter-
pretation of the contract in relation to specific issues when
in doubt.
b.   Assisting the Architect in adjudicating disputes.
c.   Assessing claims and advising the Architect.
d.   Assessing the quality of workmanship.
e.   Assessing whether materials and building methods conform to
specifications.
f.   Authorizing Day Work when considered to be essential.
g.   Issuing certificates authorizing payment to Contractors, for
authorizing by the Architect and honoring by the NFPCB3
h.   Certifying the practical completion of all architectural and
engineering work and enabling the Architect to officially hand
over the Works, or portions of the Works., far the NFPCB to occupy.
H. Cole
41.       The Ministry of Works, through its Regional Directorates, will
ensure the continued provision of on-site s-pervision during the defects
liability peried, to ensure that defects in material and workmanship are put
right after the buildings have settled down, and that details of design are
adjusted whein the occupants have settiled in, including as may be necessary
in the particular case:



APPENDIX C
to ANNEX 34
Page 20 of 23
42.       Deciding technical issues and ensuring that contractors have all
the information needed for the proper execution of the Works, including:
a.   Preparing a list and estimates of costs of minor design changes
needed as a result of the experience of the occupants settling
in during the defects liability period, to enable the NFPCB to
approve and authorize a variation order for the work. 1
43.       Providing site supervision to ensure that the conditions of contract
are strictly adhered to, including:
a.   preparing site reports in accordance with G (39)(a) for the days
that Contractors are actively engaged in performing contract
architectural and enginrering work on the site.
b.   Holding formal site meetings in accordance with G (39)(b) as
frequently as the Architect considers to be necessary over and
above a minimum of 2 meetings.
c.   To (h) in accordance with G (32)(c) to (h).
44.       Assisting the Architect in the exercise of the discretionary
powers invested in hin by the contract, including:
a.   To (g) in accordance with  G (4O)(a) to (g).
h.   Preparing a list of all defects of execution in architectural and
engineering materials to be corrected and adjusted after the
defects liability period according to the conditiorns of contract.
i.   Recommending the issuance of the final complet.1on certificate of
all architectural and engineering work in the contract, to the
Architect.
j.   Preparing and agreeing on the final account for certification
by the Architect.
45.       Preparing and providing the Architect with a complete set of as-
built drawings to enable a schedule of routine maintenance to be prepared
for instructing the NFPCB;s staff in the proper care and maintenance of the
completed Works.
l/   The probability that such minor design changes will prove to be necessary
should be taken into account when estimating the contingency sum in
the contract.



APPENDIX D
to ANEX4
Page 21 of 23
FUNCTIONS OF THE PROGRAM INPUT COORDINATOR
1.        The Program Input Coordinator will be responsible to the Deputy Chair-
man (Program Management) of the NFPCB for the coordination of the implementation
of all non-constraction components of the project, in close collaboration with
the relevant units of the Governent (such as the Ministry of Health, Mini-try
of Information, Ministry of the Interior), and foreign agancies responisible for
technical support as appropriate. His functions will include:
a.   coordina'tion of the procurement of all non-construction materials
and equipment, and procurement when not assigned to an agency;
b.   preparation of a comprehensive planned timetable of activities and
responsibilities for implementing the non-construction components
of the project, which will not be put into effect before the
Association has been given reasonable opportunity to comment on it;
c.   preparation,, with the assistance of the appropriate agencies, of the
lists of materials, books, equipment and transport included in the
non-construction components of the project, together with the speci-
fications and the estimates of unit and total prices of each item;
d.   when appropriate, preparation of the bidding procedures, checking
and finalizing lists cf materials and equipment, and packaging and
grouping bid components;
e.   advising the Deputy Chairman (Program Management) of the NFPCB on
the prequalifications of contractors and recommending to him the
form of the packaging of components and execution of contracts;
f.   advising the Deputy Chairman (Program Management) on the adjudication
and award of contracts;
g.   expediting, checking, and processing *ll contractors' bills of
payment submitted;
h.   supervising the accounts of the non-construction components of the
project;
i.   preparation of withdrawl applications;
j.   in cooperation with the appropriate agency, making preparations for
fellowships, study tours, and local arrangements for advisors and
short-term consultants;
k.   maintaining close liaison with the appropriate units of Government in
the development of training facilities provided by the project; and
1.   preparation of monthly reports to the Director of the PIJU (Deputy
Cha.irman (Program Management) of the NFPCB).



APPENDIX E
to ANNEX 34
Page 22 of 23
FIICTIONS OF
PROJECT IMPLE ATATION UNIT CONSULTANRTS
1.        The Contract with the Consulting Firm to provide advisory services
to the project Implementation Unit sho'ild include:
a.   The terms and conditions of emplolment. The terms of reference
should include a draft plan of operations, with time schedules and
set-out remuneration and reimbursable expenses. As far as practicable,
fees and expenses should be firm figures.
b.   The Consultants would prepare a Procedures Guide reflecting the
participation of the various central and regional government bodies,
as well as other organizations in the overall project9 outlining
the project and its implementation, together with guidelines on
financial control.
c.   The Consultants would prepare a Design Guide in coliaboration with
the Institute of Technology at Bandung, with additional recommen-
dations based on experience gained and new conditions foreseen.
T1here practi-cable, the Design Guide may be modified to give specific
requirements and should give special regard to developing economies
during the production of the project components.
d.   Standard architectural engineering plans and specifications and
standard bills of quantities should be prepared for all buildings
in the project by the Appointed Architect, with the guidance aaid
collaboration of the Consultants. The PIU will incorporate these
standard documients in the design and supervision of the project's
civil works.
e.   The Consultants will advise on the examination, adjudication, and
provision of comments and recommendations to the Government and
the Association on draft contracts between the Government and finms
of contractors and suppliers, and research institutions and orga-
nizations, as well as any executive architects or engineers whose
services may be retained.  Each contract should incorporate a plan
of operation, time schedule, estimates of fees, and reimbursable
expenses.
f.   The Consultants' responsibilities would include:  visiting and
recommending approval of the project sites in liaison with the
Appointed Architect and a representative of the government town
planner; recommending any adjustments or modification to the
schedule of accommodation due to local circumstances; assisting
with furniture and equipment lists and estimates; establishing
detailed cost plans for each project building; advising on the size
of bid packages; and reviewing documents for bidding and contract.



APPENDIX E
to ANNEX
Page 23 of 23.
g.   The Consultants would assist in regular progress reporting to the
Director of the PIU and the Association, and in the preparation and
up-dating of PERT or CPM charts, and withdrawal certificates. They
would also assist the Appointed Architect in the overall supervision
of the project.
h.   The Consultant would assist in the establishment of a project
accounting system -which would ve the approval of the Association.



ANE   35
Page 1 of 2
OUTLINE OF AGREEMENTS ON ASS]:STANCE WITH
IMPEIMENTATION BY OTHER AiGENCIES
1.        The role of other agencies is based on the premise that the project
will be implemented by the Goverrment of Indonesia with the assistance of the
other institutions. The Association will have the responsibility for clearing
the necessary arrangements and supervising project implementation.
2.        During negotiations, the Government has given assurances that
appropriate and effective arrangements satisfactory to the Association will
be made with WHO, UNESCO, UNICEF, other United Nations bodies, the Popvl ation
Council, or other sources of expertise acceptable to the Association for
assistance in carrying out, respectively, the hospital postpartum program,
the infornation and education activities, the vehicle and transportation
components, the assistance to the Institutes of Demography and of Economic
and Social Research, and the demonstration field postpartum program. In
certain cases, these agencies are already assisting with the implementation
of activities related to the family planning program, such as paramedical
education and family planning communications. In such cases, the Government
would extend the cur-ent involvement of these agencies in those activities.
3.        More particularly, specific assistance would be required from:
a.   WHO to assist in the implementation of the hospital postpartum
program. The Government may ask WHO to provide the services of
one adviser for 2 years for the functions outlined in Annex 28
and such other support, in the specification of medical equip-
ment, for example, as the Goverieaent may require.
b.   The UN Population Division, through the UN Office of Technical
Cooperation., to assist in the implementation of those parts of
the evaluation and research components of the project relating
to the Institute of Demography in the University of Indonesia,
and the Population Studies Center in the National Institute
for Economic and Social Research. The Government may ask the
UN to provide the services of four advisers for the functions
outlined in section G of Annex 26, and to assist, as required,
with the development of a fellowship programn axnd adviser on
the specifications and procurement of equipment.
c.   UNICEF to assist with the procurement of vehicles. The Govern-
ment may ask UNICEF to provide the services of two advisers
for 3 years for the functions outlined in Annex 2?, and to
assist with the specification and procurement of vehicles and
equipment.



Pagte 2 of 2.
d.   The Population Council to assist in the implementation of the
demonstration field postpartuz program. The Government may ask
the Council to provide the services of two advisers for 3 years
for the functions outlined in section F of Annex 26, and to provide
for the analysis and evaluation of data and information derived
from the demonstration.
e.   UNESCO to assist in the implementation of the information and
communications, and population education components of the project.
The Government may ask UNESCO to assist the communications adviser
of the Goverrmient of Indonesia in helping with the provision of
short-term cornsultants, and the development of a fellowship pro-
gram. It may also ask UNESCO to provide the services of one
adviser for the functions outlined in Annex 30, as well as short-
term consultants, assistance with developing a fellowship program,
and with resource personnel and material, as required, for the
seminar and training program.



ANNEX 36
SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION FOR CIVIL WORKS
Credi t
Effectiveness
Pre-Credit
Et.ectiveness      First Year              Second Year
Rp          U';$
Thousands Thousands        JL-,           1.2                     1           2
Clinics               1,713,535    4,129         1  a         ,,,,,,      :::         ***=.      XXXX
NFPCB Offices           329,925       795                      s  a        ,,,            **      *==
Training Schools      1,586,960     3,824        s  a       ,,,:**      ***..         XXXXXX     KXXXXX
PTCS                    449,030     1,082        a 'a       ,,,:::.***    XXX         XXXxx
STCS                    433,260     1,044        a  a       ,,,:X::***   .XXX         XXlX
TOTAL                 4,512,710    10,874
Third Year               Fourth Year              Fifth Year
1           2              1           2        .  1           2
Clinics                             +          (+)
NFPCB Offices                      xmOOOO     XxOOOO          XXX m                     +          (+)
Training Schools                     XX        A                            (+)
PTCS.                                +           (+)
STCS                                 +          (+
Legend:
AL..      Selection and appointment of                      - Preparation of production in-
architects and consultants                          formation and bid packages
a     - Selection and appointment of                XXX   - Construction
specialist consultant                      =   - Installation
- Survey of sites, timetables,                 +    - End defects liability period
master plans                                        for construction
::   - Design (final)                               (+)  - End defects liability period
for furniture and equipment
- Tender



ANNEX 37
ESTIMATED DISBEUSE;NTE SCHEDUIE
Cumulative Disbursement
At End of Quarter
CUOS.$- (IX thousands)
IBRD Fiscal Year                     IDA               UNFI'A
1 972-73
March 31, 1973                     350                 350
June 30, 1973                      780                 780
1973-74
September 30, 1973               1,44()              1,44o
December 31, 1973                2,180              2,180
March 31, 1974                   3,220               3,220
June 30, 1974                    4,250             4,250
1974-75
September 30, 1974               5,990               5,990
December 31, 1974                 7,720              7,720
larch 31, 1975                   8,400               8,400
June .30, 1975                   9 ,200             9,200
1975-76
September 30, 1975               10,010             10,010
December 31, 1975               10,820              10C,820
March 31, 1976                  11,160              11i,160
June 30, 1976                   11,520              111,520
1976-77
September 30, 1976              11,890              11,890
Dejember 31, 1976               12,255              12,255
March 31, 1977                  12,380              12,380
Juie 30, 1977                   12,505              12,505
1977-78
September 30, 1977              12,645              12,645
December 31, 1977               12,785              12,785
March 31, 1978                  12,935              12,935
June 30, 1978                   13,185              13,185



ANNEX 38
Page 1 of 6
DEMOGRAPHIC II4PACT OFs THE PROJECT
1.        The project's demographic impact is estimated by initially assuming
a reasonable desired decline in fertility levels and then seeing what this
implies in terms of numbers of acceptors and the resulting number of prevented
Airths.  Overestimates of the number of new acceptors, of their continuation
rates, or of the number of births averted will of course exaggerate the estimated
decline in fertility.  However3 once realistic and consistent values have been
put on these parameters - based primarily on experience in other countries - it
is possible to estimate the resulting crude birth rate and, by making assumptions
about death rates and migration, to estimate the population growth rate. The
overall results should not be taken as predictions of what will happen but as
reasonable targets of what can happen with good project performance!. In addition,
the identification of specific values used for the different parameters will pro-
vide bases for comparison as future information is generated by the. program's
evaluation and research activities.
2.        No attempt has been made to analyze in quantitative tenus the relative
contribution of different project components. Techniques of factoral analysis
have not yet been applied to population programs in a way that prov:Ldes an ob-
jective basis for allocating funds and energies among different progrram components.
Thus while there has been an effort to "optimize" the composition of project ele-
ments the analysis of results is based on treating all inputs as an integrated
package which collectively produce the project's results.
Target Decline in Fertility
3.        About 182,000 new family planning acceptors were reported in FY1970,
whicti exceeded the target set for that year. For FY1971, the number of accep-
tors is again expected to exceed this year's targets. But despite such en-
couraging returns, it seems unlikely that, with current family planning inputs
as planned, it will be possible to achieve the target of 2.5 million acceptors
set for FY1975 by the Government, the reasons being a) the inability of the
present information and education system to reach 85% of the total population
which is living in rural areas, b) inadequate physical facilities covering, on
average, 18,000 women in reproductive ages per clinic, and c) a weak postpartum
motivation program because of the low proportion of institutional deliveries and
lack of trained staff. Until now, the impact of new acceptors on ferctility has
been negligible. Without the project inputs and the consequent improvement in
program performance, it is estimated that the gross reproduction rate would de-
cline from 3.2 at present to 2.6 in 1995-2000.  With program improvements result-
ing from the project it is estimated that the GRR could be brought down to 1.7
by 1995-2000. This would represent over twice as large a decline in fertility
over the next 28 years with the project inputs than without them. The gross re-
production rates over the period in the two cases are given below:



ANNEX 38
Page 2 of 6
Without Project                 With Project
Year                      Inputs                          Inputs
1965-70                    3.2                            3.2
1970-75                    3.2                            3.1
1975-80                    3.1                            2.9
1980-85                    3.0                            2.6
1985-90                    2.9                            2.3
1990-95                    2.8                            1.9
1995-2000                  2.6                            1.7
Difference: 65/70-95/00    0.6                             1.5
Required Number of Acceptors
4.        The project's demographic impact will depend on two main effects, an
increase in the number of acceptors and an improvement in the continuation rates
of pill and IUD users.  Achievement of the desired impact will also depend on the
accuracy of the estimated number of births that are averted per woman-year of
protection.
5.        The assumed decline in fertility is checked against the possible number
of new acceptors that the program would be capable of recruiting with, and without,
the project inputs. The required number of acceptors is derived from the births
that are to be averted to achieve the desired reduction in fertility.  Births to
be averted are taken to be the difference of the number of births wit-h constant
fertility and the number resulting from the assumed reduction in fertility. For
constant fertility, the number of births is calculated from United Nations pro-
jections with constant fertilty. New projections have been made for the assumed
declines in fertility with, and without, the project inputs.
6.        Given the target number of births to be averted, acceptors of family
planning are estimated by calculating the women years of protection required for
averting a particular number of births. Given the current general fertility rate
of about 220, about 4.5 women years of protection are assumed to avert one birth
(1000 .4 220). The number of acceptors needed depends on botil the continuation
rates of various contraceptive devices and on the contraceptive mix. For Indonesia,
there has been no reliable nation-wide survey of continuation rates. Continuation
rates for the IUD and the pill have, therefore, been taken from other countries in
the region. They are similar to those which underlie the estimates of acceptors
made in the 1970 UN-WHO-IBRD Report on the Indonesian program. The continuation
rates are expected to improve over a period of time -- after 1985 by 50% because
of an expected improvement in overall program performance. The continuation rates
assumed initiatlly are as follows:
Contraceptive
I U D             Pill
Entering in first year              100              100
Remaining at beginning
of the second year                 65               45
Beginning of the third year          50               30
Beginning of the fourth year         30                20
Beginning of the fifth year          10                10



ANNJEX 38
Paae 3 of 6
7.        The proportion of acceptors of contraceptive pills increased from less
than 5% in 1967 to 50% in 1971. It is assumed that the acceptors of contraceptive
pills will increase to 90% of all new acceptors in 2000. These assumptions are
based on the supposition that there will be no major break-through in birth
control technology by that date,
8.        On the basis of the continuation rate assumptions, the number of women
years of protection obtained for a cohort of 100 females during the 5 years was
calcujlated. Applying these coefficients on the women years of protection, the
number of acceptors required was estimated. They are as follows:
With Project Inputs                Without Project Inputs
Women      Percentage                Women      Percentage
15-44 Years in of Females            15-44 Years in of Females
Year Acceptors Java and Bali  15-44 Years Acceptors Java and Bali   15-44 Years
(In          (In                     (In          (In
millions)    millionis)              millions)    millions)
1975    1.6         18.9           8.4      0.5          18.9          2.6
1980    5.1         24.7          20.6       2.3         24.7          9.3
1985    8.4         25.1          33.5                   25.1         18.3
1990    9.1         29.5          30.8      5.0          30.5         16.4
1995   13.4         34.1          39.3      6.5          36.6         17.7
2000   20.1         38.8          51.8     10.0          43.4         23.0
9.        Since the Government program is now confined to Java and Bali - two-thirds
of the population - the number of acceptori needed to reach the targeted decline
in national fertility has been calculated from the eligible females in that area
alone. Without the project the number of acceptors is expected to increase from
less than 1% at present to more than 2% of women in the reproductive age groups in
1975. To achieve the desired reduction of fertility, the number of acceptors would
have to increase to about 8% in 1975. Bv 2000, the number of acceptors would have
to cover about 52% of the females in the reproductive age groups to achieve the tar-
geted GRR of 1.7, if the program remains confined to Java and Bali. It is con-
sidered possible that such targets can be reached.
Population Size, Rate of Growth, and Birth Rate
10.       Projections of population have been made for Indonesia as a whole on the
basis of estimateu declines in fertility with and witnout the project. In both
cases, mortality assumptions are the same as an increase in the expectation of
life at birth from 48 years at present to 62.9 years in 2000. Totals of projected
population are given in the following table, while the age and sex distributions
are given at the end.



ANNEX 38
Page 4 of 6
Program Improvement           Program Improvement
Year        Without Project -nputs         With Project Inputs
(In millionis)                (In millions)
1975                  141                          140
1980                  164                          162
1985                  192                          183
1990                  224                          209
1995                  262                          234
2000                  306                          258
11,       If the ambitious targets for 2000 are met the population would be smaller
by 48 million, or 39% of the 1971 population, with the project than without it.
In addition to the reduction in absolute size of the population, the rate of growth
of population would be lower. The vital rates and rate of growth of population
with and without the project are given in the following table:
Program Improvement                Program Improvement
Without Project Inputs               With Project Inputs
Crude Natural Expectation          Crude  Natural Expectation
Firth  Growth    of Life    Death  Birth  Growth   of Life     Death
Year     Rfate   Rate      at Birth   Rate   Rate   Rate      at Birth   Rate
1970-75   47.5   30.0       48.1      17.2   46.3   29.0      48.1       17.4
1975-80   45.5   30.8       51.1      14.3   42.6   28.3      51.1       14,
1980-85   43.2   30.7       54.1      12,1   38.5   26,4      54.1       12.5
1985-90   41.7   30.9       57.1      10.4   35.6   25.2      57.1       10.7
1990-95   40.2   31.1       60.1      ;8.7   30.8   22.1      60.1        9.1
1990-2000 38.7   31.0       62.9       7.5   27.4   19.8      62.9        7.7
12.       The birth rate would be 27.4 in 2000 with the project inputs, and about
39 without them. The rate of growth of population would remain at 3% per annum,
or decline sllghtly to 2.7% in 2000 without the project inputs. With project
inputs the population growth rate would fall nearly 50%.



ANNEX 38
Page 5 of 6
Tabl. 1
AGE AND SEX STRUCTURE OF POPULATION (WITHOUT PROJECT INPUT)
1975                1980                1985               1990                1995                 )00
Ages    Hles     Females    Males   Females    Males    Females    Hales    Females    Males   Females
0-4    13,415   12,861     15,359  14,689      17,446  16,645     20,110   19,117     23,113  21,934      26,406  25,C25
5-9    10,716   10,411     12,805  12,255      14,791  14,121     16,922   16,143     19,659  18,682      22,742  21,573
10-14    8,414    8,214     10,553  10,238      12,641  12,087     14,635   13,963     16,779  16,002      19,529  18,559
15-19    7,277    7,176      8,280   8.070     10,408   10,089     12,496   11,943     14,496  13,832      16,651  15,885
20-24    6,162    6,121      7,109   7,008       8,114   7,911     10,232    9,924     12,320  11,787      14,330  13,689
25-29    5,188    5,184      5,987   5,948      6,936    6,840      7,948    7,753     10,059   9,764      12,151  11,635
30-34    4,341   4,366       5,023   5,018       5,825   5,785      6,778    6,684      7,800   7,609       9,908   9,618
35-39    3,617    3,665      49180   4,209      4,864   *4,863      5,669    5,634      6,629   6,539       7,661   7,474
40-44    2,987    3,067      3,452   3.517       4,015   4,060      1,,700   4,715      5,510   5,489       6,475   6.398
45-49    2,427    2,547      2,815   2,925       3,277   3,371      3,837    3,912      4,521    4,564      5,330   5,338
50-54    1,924    2,076      2,245   2,398       2,624   2,769      3,078    3,209      3,631   3,745       4,307   4,392
55-59    1,477    1,653      1,730   1,913       2,036   2,225      2,401    2,587      2,840   3,0L9       3,377   3,545
60-64    1,079    1,268      1,271   1,470       1,504   1,717      1,789    2,014      2,131   2,363       2,544   2,780
65-69      734      916        869   1,065       1,037   1,250      1,243    1,476      1,497    1,752      1,804   2,077
70-74      451     596         535     703        644      830        780      988        949   1,184       1,159   1,424
75-79      166     241         282     397        341      477        418      573        516     694         640     847
80+         73      116         58      87         100     146        122      177        152     215         190     264
70,447   70,476     82,552   42,476     96,602  95,183     113,156 110,810    132,600 129,173     155,20t 150,523



ANNEX 38
Page 6 of 6
Table 2
AGE AND SEX STRUCTURE OF POPULATION (WITH PROJECT INPUT)
1975                 1980                1985                1990       -         1995    -           2000
A&es     Mates    Females     Males   Females     Males    Females    Males    Females    Males    Females     Males   Females
0-4     13,026   12,4.3      14,226  13,605      15,095   14,402     16,245   15,443      16,139  15,316      16,183  15,337
5-9     10,716   10.41L      12,434  11,900      13,700   13,079     14,642   13,968     15,881   15,092      15,879  15,063
10-14     8,414    8.214      10,553  10,238      12,275   11,736     13,555   12,933     14,518   l3,846      15,776  14,992
15-19     7,277    7.176       8,280   8,070      10,408   10,089     12,134   11,597     13,427   12,811      14,407  13,745
20-24     6,162    6.121       7,109   7,008       8,114    7,911     10,232    9,924     11,963   11,445      13,273  12,679
25-29    Sl18     5,184       5,987   5,948       6,936    6,840      7,948    7,753     10,059    9,764      11,798  11,298
30-34     4,341    4.366       5,023   5,018       5,825    5,785      6,778    6,684      7,800    7,609       9,908   9,618
35-39     3.617    3,665       4,180   4,209       4,864    4,863      5,669    5,634      6,629    6,539       7,661   7,474
40-44     2.987    3.,067      3,452   3,517       4,015    4,060      4,700    4,715      5,510    5,489       6,475   6,398
43-49     2,427    2,547       2,815   2,925       3,277    3,371      3,837    3,912      4,521    4,564       5,330   5,338
50-54     1,924    2.076       2,245   2,398       2,624    2,769      3,078    3,209      3,631    3,745       4,307   4,392
55-59     1,477    1.653       1,730   1,913       2,036    2,225      2,401    2,587      2,840    3,019       3,377   3,545
60-64     1,079    1,268       1,271   1,470       1,504    1,717      1,789    2,014      2,131    2,363       2,544   2,780
65-69       734      916         869   1,065       1,037    1,250      1,243    1,476      1,497    1,752       1,804   2,077
70-74       451      596         535     703         644     830         780      988        949    1,184       1,159   1,424
75-79       166      241         282     397         341     477         418      573        516      694        640      847
80+          73      116          58      87         100      146        122      177        152      215         190     264
70,059   70,103      81,048  80,471      92,794   91,548    105,570  103,585     118,161  115,446    130,711  127,271



ANNEX 39
Page 1 of 3
ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
1.        The paucity of data on national accounts and the absence of a
perspective plan or projected economic parameters do not allow measure-
ment of the economic impact of the reduction in population growth resulting
from the project inputs. This annex attempts, therefore, to show at a
broad and simple level the economic consequences of reduced population
size in terms of per capita income, investment requirements, and employ-
ment. The effect of a unit decline in the rate of growth of population
on demand for food, savings, and foreign resource gap is also demonstrated.
Per Capita Income and Investment
2.        The possible increase in gross domestic product (GDP) up to 1980
has been projected in the Bank's report on "Investment and Growth Perspectives
in the 1970's" for Indonesia.  The estimated increase itself, however, implies
the effect of an assumed slower population growth. These estimates have,
however, been used to calculate per capita income with and without project
inputs. The additional GDP required to obtain the consequent increase in per
capita income in the absence of decline in population increase with project
inputs gives the idea of required investment. Assuming an incremental capital
output ratio of 3:1, the additional investment needed to generate the additional
GDP is also estimated. The results are given in the following table:
Required
Addition
Population                                     for Increase   Required
(In millions)                                   in Population Additional
Reduction               GDP Per Capita    WOPI (U.S.$- Inlvestment
in Popu-   GDP.!                    %    In millions)    as a
lation (U.S.$ - In     U.S.$     Increase    Capital  Proportion
Year   WOPI   WPI   WPI      millions)   WOPI   WPI   WPI    GDP Stock     of GDP
1970   121    121     -        8,746      72     72    -      -    -           -
1975   141    140    1        12,359      88     88    -      -    -           -
1980   164    161    3        18,378     112    114   1.8    326   978      5.0
1985   192    184    8        26,997     140    147   5.0  1,344 4,032     15.0
WOPI  =  Without project inputs.
WPI   =  With project inputs.
GDP   =  Grcss domestic product.
1/ Projections of GDP up to 1980 are taken from the Bank's report on "Invest-
ment and Growth Perspectives in the 1970's" for Indonesia. From 1980 to
1985, a growth rate of 8% per annum in GDP is assumed. The growth rate
in GDP assumed in the above mentioned report was 7.9% per annum for 1975-80.



ANNEX 39
Page 2 of 3
3.        As a result of the reduction in population attributable to the
project, per capita income is estimated to increase by 1.8% in 1980 and by
5.0% in 1985. The project benefits (measured in terms of savings in re-
sources required to increase GDP to achieve a comparable growth in per
capita income without the project) are extremely large. For example, it
is estimated that additional savings and investment equal to about 5% of
1980 GDP would be required to give everyone the 2% of additional income
made possible by keeping population 3 million smaller than it would other-
wise be. Project costs are insignificant in comparison with the savings in
resources required to support the "births averted" population.
Labor Force
4.        Fertility reduction will affect the size of the labor force only
after 15 years. It is estimated that the labor force would be smaller by
1.8 million in 1995 and 4.7 million in 2000 with reduced fertility.   The
figures are given in the following table:
INDONESIA: ESTIMATED WORKING-AGE POPULATION AND LABOR FORCE
1975-2000
(In millions)
Year         Population 15-59 years           Labor Force
WOPI              WPI         WOPI         WPI
1975         71.2               71.2       47.0         47.0
1980         81.8              81.8        54.0         54.0
1985         96.0               96.0       63.4         63.4
1990        113.5              112.8       74.9         74.4
1995        134.1             131.4        88.5         86.7
2000        158.2             151.0       104.4         99.7
5.        Indonesia is at present a country with serious unemployment and under-
employment. Overcoming these problems from the demand side alone, through the
generation of very high growth levels over a period of several decades, does
not seem a realistic expectation. Therefore any slowing in the growth of the
labor force will contribute to a reduction in the country's chronic unemploy-
ment; however, the extent of such a reduction cannot be predicted with confidence
beyond stating that it would be significant.
Food Consumption, Savings, and Resource Gap
6.        As an aid to planning by both the Covernment of Indonesia and aid
donors, long-range macro-eco.aomic projecticas of the possible growth of the
Indonesian economy have been -made by the East Asia and Pacific Department of
the Bank. The effects of alternative assumptions regarding exports, agri-
cultural growth, the increase in population, tax rates, and private capital
inflows are used.



ANNEX 39
Page 3 of 3.
7.        Differences in population growth rates have their main effects in
the model through the demand for food. With a given rate of income growth
and an income elasticity for food well below uniity, a higher population
growth rate implies a lower growth of per capit:a income and larger increase
in the demand for food. If the supply of food, and especially of food grains,
is not elastic from domestic sources, the only recouree is additional imports
from abroad which create a burden on the balance of payments.
8.        Given certain assumptions on per capita food consumption and the
growth of both population and domestic food supply, the model shows that by
1980 Indonesia could be saving as much as $30 million in foreign exchange if
the population growth rate dropped a full percentage point during the decade.
However, it is likely that domestic food suppliee will increase to a point
where actual import savings will in fact be substantially less.



BANGKA                  BELITUNG                                                       IIZE     K A L I M A N T A N              (BORNEO)
0Palembang
S U M    A T R A                                                                                                                                     Bandiarmasin
41S                                           J                INDONESIA                                                                                             4S-
0Menggala T                                        JAVA         AND         BALI
Bandardljo    .    Wcy Seputih RP RIVERS
0                                                           f , --l11  AILWAYS                                     G    V     G
Gunungsugih   SukadCna
Xc                 |                      *        NATIONAL CAPITAL
TeIukbetung         n                                              .         PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
--..--..................... PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                S   e     a
Merako          DJAKARTA
Se      a         JAKARTA
Labuh,                                     5Indromaju
E                                            Serang R.
RBogor          f\
WEST JAVA             Tjirebon          Tuntang R.
Tegal   Pekalongan
Teluk Pelabuhan Ratu0                                                                                          MADURA
Bumiaju ~
*, Wons bo                                                                       o         urabaj
Indian      Ocean                                                                                         Modjokerto
Pameungpeuk                                                         a.S uraka aS ,
eS                                                108-E                                                      jABALI                                                 8SE
.0    -    ALAYA                                                   Tjilatjp   -DJOGJAKARTA                                                                  BALI .
SABAH,            PHILIPPINES
ALAYA     RUNEI
'MALAYSIA         -               Pacific Ocean                                                                                                   BA L I
SARAWAK
SINGAPORE                                                                                                                                  D. Denpasar @
KALIMANTAN
S '                        SULAWESI               WEST                         5!0       10,0      5I0        20
Java Seaa           -.                        NEW                            MILES
Indian Ocean          I N D O N E S' I A                                    0            100         200           300
JAVA                        OR   M                                          KILOMETERS                                                                      >
- $  PORT, TIMOR
AREA OF MAP                 TIMOR         AUSTRALIA                                                 112 E-
MARCH 1971                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 3360



r           1l!,-                                                             II!-EMAP 2
112'E                                                            I14E
INDONESIA
Imb ngEAST                                                                                          JAVA      AND      BAlI PROVINCES
0           25          50           75          100
MILE S
E MA 5A                                                                                                                                                    75 (     05
K! LOMETERS
Sangkalan                     /umene ~ a
|~~~~~~ -                                                                                                                           -   Pielp= KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES l
NGKBUATE HADQARER
wakarta                                                                        SLZLAT    MADU 7A                                                           PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
i \/ \ EJ= : b >\>: ............. ..............O                                                                                    PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
( , / ~~~<,- golelt / t E ~~~AL                                                                                                               SEWT0JtA B' V S -'--
a tu eNggane      F     L\    S                   . J    A,   \/   4
Moget.n                                                                     P. uuan        lu otng/-/                                X
Bnaonruwang
.   :, {^ F^  ,    7/ME <           :>ANA       n         ""i\  >     //
/ TA|BANAN I                                               )   KARAGASEM
|/ NDZSA N                              O CEZAN                                                                          jBA1 K!^aAN(I I/t|> ; pQnm!I
I                                                                                                                                      BADUNG DENPASAR
Trnp                                    a   k
llZ'E                                                             fl4 E
MARCH 1971                                                                                                                                                                                     1BRD 3361
A-                                                                T                 A-    V



