CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 300 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 20, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 300 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 20, 1972


﻿S
Bruelopment (Ergbit Agreemtu
AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1972, between the REPUB-
LIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion and the UNITED NATIONS FUND FOR POPuLAILON ACTIVI-
TIES (hereinafter called the UNFPA) to assist in the
financing and implementation of the Borrower's family-
planning program;
(B) the Association and the UNFPA have agreed jointly
to provide such assistance in respect of the Project, de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project is a
part of such program;
(C) the Association is willing for the purpose to assist
in the financing of the Project by extending to the Bor-
rower a development credit of $13,200,000 equivalent as
hereinafter provided;
(D) the UNFPA has agreed for the purpose to make
available to the Borrower an equal amount of $13,200,000
on a non-reimbursable basis (hereinafter called the UNFP.A
Grant) ; and
(E) the Borrower, the UNFPA and the Association have
entered into a joint financing agreement of even date here-
with (hereinafter called the Joint Financing Agreement)
providing that the Association administer and disburse the
UNFPA Grant as therein set forth and regulating other
matters of common interest in connection with the financing
and carrying out of the Project;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree au
follows:


﻿S
4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to De-
velopment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion
of Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering
of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof (said General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings there-
in set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "NFPCB" means the Nationaly Family Planning
Coordinating Board of the Borrower; and
(b) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit es-
tablished as provided in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTTON 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million two hun-
dred thousand dollars ($13,200,000).
SEcTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
S


﻿(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed under the Development Credit
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made
on account of (i) expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories, (ii) any purchase of equipment, fur-
nishings, materials or supplies under a contract totaling less
than the equivalent of $2,000 or (iii) expenditures described
under Category VI of the Allocation set forth in such Sched-
ule 1 unless the application of the Borrower for such with-
drawal shall be accompanied by an accounting of such ex-
penditures duly certified by the auditors referred to in
Section 4.02 of this Agrvement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as specified in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than services of consultants, ad-
visers and other experts) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be pro-
cured on the basis of international competition under pro-
cedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in
such Schedule 3.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or
such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿S
6
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1982
and ending November 1, 2021, each installment to and in-
cluding the installment payable on November 1, 1991 to be
one-half of one per cent ( of 1%/o) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (11/2%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Proj-
ect through its NFPCB with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
technical and public-health practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) To assist in the management of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall establish in the NFPCB an implementation unit
(the PIU) with a structure substantially as described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with authority and re-
sponsibilities to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the
establishment and operations of the PIU, and in the carry-
ing out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ a firm of
management consultants, and advisers and other experts,
all acceptable to, and for such periods of time and upon


﻿such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to,
the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 3.03. In planning and carrying out the construc-
tion works included in the Project, the Borrower shall em-
ploy (a) contractors acceptable to the Association and (b)
architects acceptable to the Association to be responsible
for design standards and general supervision of construe-
tion, both upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed in
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
SECTION 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
concurrence, promptly upon their preparation or availabil-
ity, all plans, specifications and site descriptions relating
to facilities to be constructed under the Project.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out


﻿S
8
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed but not
later than fifteen months from the date of this Agreement
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be re-
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
SECTION 3.07. Pursuant to Section 3.01(a) of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall provide to the boundary of each
site as necessary, connecting roads, sewerage, power, water
and other supporting facilities for the constructions in-
cluded in the Project.
SECTION 3.08. The Borrower shall make appropriate and
effective arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association with WHO, Unesco, UNICEF, other United
Nations bodies, The Population Council, Inc. or other
sources of expertise acceptable to the Association, for as-
sistance in carrying out, respectively, the hospital post-
partum program, the information and education activities,
the vehicle and transportation components, the assistance
to the Institutes of Demography and of Economic and
Social Research and the field postpartum program, in-
cluded in the Project.
SECTION 3.09. The locations of the training schools, train-
ing centers, sub-training centers and the maternal and child
S


﻿9
health, family-planning and administrative centers, shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of thv
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the accounts and
financial statements of the NFPCB related to the Project
to be audited at least annually, in accordance with sonid
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and shall submit to
the Association not later than four months following the
close of each fiscal year copies of such audited financial
statements and a copy of the report and certification of the
auditors thereon.
SECTION 4.03. For the purpose of strengthening the
NFPCB, the Borrower shall employ for at least two years
three qualified and experienced persons, satisfactory to the
Association, as advisers to the Chairman of the NFPCB,
one responsible for program management, one for family-
planning training and the third for family-planning
communications.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall establish a standing
committee on family-planning training, to be responsible for
recommending to the Chairman of the NFPCB training
policies and priorities, the apportionment of training re-
sponsibilities and the use for training purposes of the
facilities included in the Project.


﻿10
SECTION 4.05. To ensure the effectiveness of the para-
medical training included in the Project, the Borrower shall
(a) establish and maintain such additional new posts as
shall be necessary to employ the staff trained in the schools
included in the Project;
(b) conduct a program of training of auxiliary-nure
midwives based on two-year courses given to students under
service contracts providing for stipends and on other
arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
(e) restrict the new nursing school at Surabaja to the
training of nurse-midwives; and
(d) provide such facilities and stipends as shall be neces-
sary to upgrade through supplemental training the quali-
fications of existing nurses and midwives, and assistant
nurses and assistant midwives, to nurse-midwives and
auxiliary-nurse midwives, respectively.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure the effective-
ness of its nonmedical field-worker program by the imple-
mentation of such financial and administrative measures
as shall be agreed from time to time between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the NFPCB to
be operated at all times according to sound principles of
administration and finance and under qualified and experi-
enced management and staff. The Borrower shall, upon the
selection of any candidate for any appointment to any of
the posts of Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the NFPCB,
exchange views with the Association on the qualifications
and experience of such candidate.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall at all times maintain
the physical facilities included in the Project according to
sound technical standards and practices and shall provide
promptly as needed the funds and facilities necessary for
the purpose.
S


﻿11
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations, resources and expenditures of the NFPCB
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the p)urposes
of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economio
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Bor-
rower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency
of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTIoN 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations, resources and expenditures of
the NFPCB and, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out any part of the Project.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement.
S


﻿12
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon, and upon any such decla-
ration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿13
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the Borrower shall have failed to carry out any ob-
ligation under the Joint Financing Agreement;
(b) Presidential Decision No. 8 of the Borrower dated
January 22, 1970 or any other legal provision governing the
organization or operations of the NFPCB shall have been
promulgated, supplemented or modified so as adversely
to affect the efficiency, operations, financial condition or
ability to carry out the Project, of the NFPCB.
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the Joint Financing Agreement has, or will concur-
rently with this Agreement, become fully effective;
(b) the NFPCB has been reorganized substantially as set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c) the post of Deputy Chairman (I) of the NFPCB has
been filled by a qualified and experienced expert;


﻿S
14
(d) the PIU has been established substantially as set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and has been staffed
to the satisfaction of the Association;
(e) the management consultants referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement have been employed; and
(f) the architects referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement have been employed.
SECTION 8.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Joint
Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Bor-
rower in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 8.03. The date August 21, 1972 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement and the provisions of para-
graph (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of
paragraph (b) of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a (late twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
S


﻿15
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ SIARIF TLAJEB
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AbdOCIATION
By /s/ SIMON ALDEWERELD
Vice President
S


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each category and the percentage
of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I. Civil Works                4,550,000    50% of total expendi-
tures
II. Furniture and equipment    1,150,000    50% of foreign expendi-
tures or 47.5%  of local
expenditures
III. Vehicles                   1,300,000    50 % of foreign expendi-
tures or 47.5% of local
expenditures
IV. Services of Consultants     1,800,000    50%o of total expendi-
and other Experts;                      tures
overseas training
V. Research and Surveys          950,000    50% of total expendi-
tures
VI. Salaries of staff and       1,200,000    40% of total expendi-
maintenance and other                   tures until June 30,
operating costs of                      1973, then 30%  20%
facilities, equipment                   and 10% of such ex-
and vehicles                            peuditures, respec-
tively, for the subse-
quent three 12-month
periods
VII. TJnallocated                2,20,000
TOTAL               13,200,000


﻿17
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories, and in the currency, of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisio- of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in re;:pect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals may be made on account of ex-
penditures financed out of the UNFPA Grant and incurred
prior to such date but subsequent to February 1, 1972, but
only in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000; and
(b) payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount rep-
resented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such
percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of
the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:


﻿S
18
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory except Category VI shall increase, the percentage set
forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the
amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount will
be allocated by the Association, at the request of the Bor-
rower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of
the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of
any other expenditures; and
(c) if the Association shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in See-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category I shall increase and no
proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
s


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, to be carried out under the responsibility of
the NFPCB through the PIU, forms a part of, and is de-
signed to support, the family-planning program of the Bor-
rower. Specifically, the Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A. The construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing
of the following training facilities:
1. ten new schools to graduate a total of about 50 nurse-
midwives and about 500 auxiliary-nurse midwives an-
nually; and
2. six provincial training centers each for about 50 peo-
ple, and ten sub-training centers, each for about 30
people, to provide in-service family-planning training
for personnel working in family planning.
Part B. The construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing
of the following facilities to provide expanded opportunities
for family-planning services:
1. about 250 rural maternal and child health and family-
planning centers, ranging in size from about 100 m2 to
about 400 M2 ; and
2. about 30 urban maternal and child-health and family-
planning centers, ranging in size from about 400 n2 to
about 500 M2.
Part C. The construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing
for a demonstration field postpartum program in East
Java, of about 40 such small rural maternal and child-
health and family-planning centers in a region to be selected
in consultation with the Association.
Part D. The construction, equipping and furnishing of:


﻿20
1. a national headquarters building in Djakarta for the
NFPCB, for a total staff of about 125, and
2. Six provincial headquarters buildings for the NFPCB,
each for a total staff of about 40, at Surabaja, Sema-
rang, Djogjakarta, Djakarta, Denpasar and Bandung.
Part E. The procurement of equipment and its utilization
for the improvement of facilities for evaluation, demo-
graphic training and family-planning research, at
1. NFPCB national and provincial headquarters;
2. Institute of Demography, Djakarta; and
3. Population Studies Center, Institute of Economic and
Social Research, Djakarta.
Part F. The procurement of vehicles and spare 1)arts, for
personnel engaged in family-planning activities, and of
maintenance shop equipment.
Part G. The procurement and operation of mobile infor-
mation units and other equipment to improve family-plan-
ning communications media, techniques and services.
Part H. The establishment and maintenance in about ninety
hospitals to be selected with the approval of the Associa-
tion of hospital postpartum programs, to provide family-
planning information, education and services during and
after pregnancy.
Part I. Employment of about 8,600 additional family-plan-
ning field workers (including supervisory staff) to improve
motivation for family planning.
Part J. Preparation of curricula and other programs for the
introduction on a national scale of education in the field of
population.


﻿21
Part K. The carrying out of such studies as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree to be necessary for the
proper planning, carrying out and evaluation of results, of
the Project and of the population program of the Borrower
and the training of personnel for such purposes.
Part L. The establishment and operation of an adequate
system of procurement and distribution of supplies neces-
sary to implement the family-planning program of the Bor-
rower at the clinic and field operational level.


﻿S
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for construction works, or
for the supply of vehicles (except as stated in paragraph 4
below), equipment or furniture, estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $5,000 or more:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Associa-
tion in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall intro-
duce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the
Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifica-
tions in the said documents or procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the reasons for the intended award. The Asso-
ciation shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
S


﻿23
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or in this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of any such contract.
2. With respect to any other such contract, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not con-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in See-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement or in this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3. For the purpose of evaluating bids for equipment or fur-
niture and associated services included in Category II of
the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, bid prices shall be determined and compared in ac-
cordance with the following rules:
(a) the term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Borrower
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent
(as reasonably determined by the Association) in such ter-
ritories; any other bids shall be deemed to be a "Foreign
Bid";
S


﻿24
(b) the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of
the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) an amount representing the c.i.f. price of such goods
net of any taxes on their importation, or, in the
case of a Foreign Bid for goods manufactured or
processed in the territories of the Borrower, the ex-
factory price of such goods;
(ii) in the case of a Foreign Bid for imported goods, an
amount representing any taxes on the importation
of the goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the c.i.f. landed price of the goods, which-
ever shall be the lower; or, in the case of a Foreign
Bid for goods manufactured or processed in the ter-
ritories of the Borrower, an amount computed by
applying any taxes on the importation of similar
goods into the territories of the Borrower which
generally apply to non-exempt importers to the ex-
factory price of the goods, or 15% of the ex-factory
price of the goods, whichever shall be the lower; an(I
(iii) an amount representing domestic freight, insurance
and other costs of delivery of the goods to the place
of their use or installation.
4. The following exceptions to the procedures set forth in
the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
shall apply:
(a) Invitations to bid and bidding documents shall in-
clude a reference to the Association and the Credit, sub-


﻿25
stantially in the form set forth in part 1.5 of the Guidelines,
with the addition thereto of a similar reference to the
TNFPA and the UNFPA Grant;
(b) Part 4.1 of the Guidelines shall not apply to procure-
ment for the Project;
(c) Invitations to bid for the construction vorks included
in the Project, with the exception of the headquarters build-
ing of the NFPCB in Djakarta, may be restricted to pre-
qualified local or regional contractors; and
(d) Where the Association agrees that the desirability
of vehicle fleet standardization makes any of the procedures
set forth in such Guidelines inappropriate, the Borrower
may utilize such other procedures for the procurement of
the vehicles subject to such standardization as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 4
Organization of the NFPCB
The NFPCB will be responsible for:
(1) advice on the formulation of national family-planning
policies;
(2) formulation of a national family-planning program
which reflects the policies approved by the Borrower;
(3) coordination and supervision of the implementation
of the national program; and
(4) coordination and supervision of all assistance for
family planning from foreign and domestic sources
including externally financed projects included
therein.
Although the Minister for People's Welfare may con-
tinue to have day-to-day general responsibility for the na-
tional family-planning program, the NFPCB will be headed
by a Chairman who, in performing his tasks, will be directly
responsible to the President of the Republic of Indonesia.
The Chairman will be advised a-ld assisted by the National
Family Planning Consultative Committee comprised of the
Secretaries General of the Ministries involved in the imple-
mentation of the national program and other individuals
called upon by the Chairman.
The NFPCB will have three Deputy Chairmen. Deputy
(I) will be responsible to the Chairman for overall program
planning and budgeting, supervision of program imple-
mentation, logistics, implementation of special projects, and
direction of the PIU. He will also act on behalf of the Chair-
man during the latter's absence. Deputy (II) will be respon-
sible to the Chairman for the technical direction and coordi-
nation during implementation of that part of the national
program dealing with information and motivation, educa-
tion and training, and medical services. Deputy (III) will
be responsible to the Chairman for technical direction and


﻿27
coordination of the part dealing with evaluation and re-
search, and reporting and recording. The Chairman will
also be assisted by an administrative secretary who will be
responsible for the administration of headquarters facilities
and staff.
The NFPCB will be provided with adequate supporting
staff for the execution of its tasks, including specifically
staff for:
(a) evaluation and research;
(b) the field postpartum program; and
(c) information and communications.


﻿S
28
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation Unit
1. The PIU, referred to in Section 3.01(b) of this Agree-
ment, will operate under the direction of the Deputy Chair-
man (I) of the NFPCB, and will be responsible for the
over-all management of the Project. The Deputy Chairman
(I) will be assisted by a Project implementation committee
comprised of the representatives of the Ministries of
Health, Public Works, Interior, Information and Finance,
and representatives of the international agencies and pri-
vate foreign foundations involved in the implementation of
the Project.
2. The Deputy Chairman (I) will be assisted by two Tech-
nical Assistants, one responsible for all civil works and the
other for the management of all other Project activities. In
addition, the Deputy Chairman (I) will be assisted by a
Procurement Officer, and an Accountant. The PIU will be
provided with adequate supporting staff, facilities and
logistical support.
3. The PIU will be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(a) coordination and integration of all Project activities
with the Ministries and other agencies of the
Borrower;
(b) arrangements for the selection of the management
consultants and the architects, the establishment of
their terms of reference and the administration of
their agreements;
(c) preparation, with the help of the management con-
sultants, architects and other specialists, of a com-
prehensive implementation schedule setting down a
planned timetable of coordinated activities and re-
sponsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects
of the Project will be based;
S


﻿29
(d) provision of all briefs and user data required by the
management consultants, architects and specialists,
to enable functional needs to be established;
(e) arrangements for the review and approval by appro-
priate authorities of the proposals, reports, specifica-
tions and other material submitted by the manage-
ment consultants, architects and other specialists;
(f) preparation of detailed lists of equipment, furniture
and vehicles for the Project;
(g) ensuring that all construction, equipment and ve-
hicles meet specifications;
(h) necessary arrangements for inviting bids and award-
ing contracts relating to the Project;
(i) keeping of accounts for the Project and preparation
of interim evaluation and financial statements there-
for;
(j) preparation  for submission   to  the Association
through proper channels of applications for with-
drawals from the Credit Account; and
(k) preparation of quarterly progress reports for sub-
mission to the Association.


