Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6947-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
November 25, 1987
Africa Region, Sahelian Department
Industry and Eneroy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.0            -   CFAF 314
CFAF 1 million        US$3,185
SDR 1             =   US$1.32109
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilowatt (kW)                  1,000 watts (W)
1 square kilometer (kmn2)   =   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =   2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)            =   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                  2.2 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR 0OFFCIAL US ONLY
ABBREVTATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFINACE   -  Agence financiere nationale de cr6dit a lexpo tation (Export
Credit Agency)
ASACE     -  Agence s6n6galaise d'assurance crAdit a l'exportation (Export
Credit Insurance Agency)
BCEAO     -  Banque centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central
Bank of West African Countries)
BCG       -  Boston Consulting Group
BCS       -  Banque commerciale du Sfntgal (Commercial Bank)
BNDS      -  Banque nationale de developpement du S6n6gal (Development
Bark)
CCCE      -  Caisse centrale de cooperation fconomique
CEAO      -  Coi1munaut6 6conomique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(Economic
Community of 'est African States)
CICES     -  Centre international du commerce ext4rleur du Sfn6gal
(Senegalese Center for External Trade)
css       -  Compagnie sucriare s6nfgalaise (Sugar Manufacturing
Enterprise)
EDP       -  Entrepreneurship Development Program
ICS       -  Industries chiniques du SOntgal (fertilizer productlon)
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MDIA      -  Ministare de l'industrie et de l'artisanat (Ministry of
Industry and Handicrafts)
ONFP      -  Office national de formation professionnelle
PPP       -  Project Preparation Facility
SAR       -  Socigtg africaine de raffinage (refinery)
SME       -  Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SOFIDAK   -  Soci4t6 de la foire international. de Dakar (Dakar
International Fair)
SOFISEDIT - SociWte financiare son6galaise pour le d6veloppement de
l'industrie et du tourisme (Development Bank for Industry and
Tourism)
SONEPI    -  Socifti  nationale d'6tudes et de promotion lndustrielle
(National Agency for Industrial Promotion)
SME       -  Small and Medium-scale Enterprise
SSE       -  Small-Scale Enteiprise
TEN       -  Taux d'escompte normal (Normal Rediscounting Rate)
TEP       -  Taux d'escompte prEffrentiel (Preferential Rediscounting Rate)
TPS       -  Taxe sur lee prestations de services (tax on services)
UMOA      -  Union mon6taire ouest-africaine (West African Monetary Union)
USB       -  Union sAn6galaise de banques (Commercial Bank)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the pefformac
of their offica duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dak authoation.



- i -
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTR-ITURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE .................................  iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................                      v
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................      ... ... ,,  , I
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR        ............. .         .........   2
A.  Sector Background .............. 2..............   2
B.  Constraints on Sector Development        ..........................   5
C.  Industrial Policies ...................... 5
D.  The SAL Programs of Industrial Reforms ...       ..................   7
E.  Sector Institutions .................a......................   8
F.  Impact of the Industrial Sector Reforms        ....................   9
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ........................... .....*......*    11
A.  Policy Framework ........................         ,              11
B.  Financial Institutions . ...............                         14
C.  Banking Credit ........................   16
D.  Sector Issues ..... .          ..........                        16
E.  The SAL III Program of Finaneial Sector Reforms ...........  17
F.  Bank's Role in Industrial Finance ...........................    18
IV.  THE PROJECT  ......         ,,                                       18
A.  Project Origin and Objectives          .............   18
B.  Project Description ......................  19
C. Line of Credlt .....................  ,                           19
D.  Retraining and SSE Lending Programs.........................  21
E.  Technical Assistance Component .....       ........................  24
F.  Project Cost and Financing ......... .. .... . . .  .400#*       26
G. Disbursements .................   ...................   27
H.  Procurement Arrangeients ............... ............ 28
I. Project Implementation, Reporting and Auditing .............  28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission whiclh visited
Senegal in June 1987. The mission comprised Messrs Wormser (Mission
Leader), Van Eeghen (Economist), Amar (Operations Officer), Queyrane and
Ms. Oman (Consultants). Mr. C. Azi (Operations Officer) and Mmes
Chassard-Ilanibog (Financial Analyst) and Sorsa (Economist) also contributed
to the report.  Secretarial work was done by Mmes. D. Lavoie, M.
Chung-Kong, B. L. Ettangondop and F. Betre.



- ii -
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............                                   29
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........so*......                   29
ANNEXES
2.01      Exports of Goods, 1980-1985                                    31
2.02      State Investments in the Manufacturing Sector                  32
2.03      Selected Industrial Indices of Production (1979-1986) ....  33
2.04      Selected Indicators of Manufacturing Activity in
Senegal (1985) o...  .  .........,                            34
2.05      Structure of Customs Tariff and Duties on Imports prior to
SAL II Reforms                                                35
2.06      Provisions of the 1981 Investment Code                         36
2.07      Industrial Policy Reforms under SALs II and III .........o.  37
2.08      Structure of Customs Tariff and Duties on Imports
after the 1986 Reform                                         42
2.09      Provisions of the New Investment Code ......43
2.10      Organization Chart of the Ministry of Industry
and Handicrafts .............   44
2.11      Restructuring of the Manufacturing Sector Under the
New Incentive System ..............                           45
3.01      Central Bank Refinancing Criteria                             51
3.02      Evolution of UMOA Lending Rates (1975-1986)       ...............  53
3.03      Evolution of UMOA Deposit Rates (1975-1986) .... o........... 54
3.04      Summary Balance Sheet of Banks as of September 30, 1985 ... 56
3.05      Evolution of Aggregated Balance Sheet of the
Banking System (1980-1985) ......o......................    57
3.06      Evolution of Outstanding Credit to the
Economy (1980 - 1986) ........58
3.07      Analysis of Outstanding Credit to the Economy by Subsector.  59
3.08      Analysis of Credit to the Manufacturing Sector ............   60
4.01      Central Bank Credit Authorizations (1985-1986)  o .........o 62
4.02      Technical Assistance Component Cost Estimates       .............  63
4.03      Restructuring Strategy for the Senegalese Export Credit
Insurance Agency (ASACE) ............                         64
4.04      Restructuring Program for the Senegalese Center for
External Trade (CICES).................. ... ................  69
4.05      Projected Quarterly Disbursements of the IDA Credit . i....  73
IBRD 20620



- iii -
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Industrial Sector
1.   Study of the Impact of Industrial Policy Reforms
on the Sector, Boston Consulting Group, January 1987.
2.   Preliminary Report on Special Enterprise Conventions in
Senegal, DFC, February 1987.
3.   Report on the Structure of Industriail Incentives in
Senegal, Ministry of Economy and Finance, May 1987.
4.   Study on Industrial Policies in Senegal, Dar Al-
Handasah Consultants, May 1985.
5.   Statement of Industrial Policy for an Inter-
ministerial Council, Ministry of Industry,
February 1986.
6.   Subsector Analyses, Ministry of Industry, June 1986.
7.   Performance Audit for SONEPI, SODI Consultants,
July 1982.
8.   Proposal for the Restructuring of SONEPI, UNIDO,
April 1986.
9.   Feasibility Study for an Entrepreneurship Development
Program in Senegal, ILO, June 1987.
B.   Banking Sector
1.   Study on the Senegalese Banking System, CIFPB, April
1987.
2.   Restructuring program for BNDS, USB, BCS; 1987.
3.   Report on SOFISEDIT and Proposed Restructuring Program,
Gondicas, September 1983.



- iv -
C. Export Promotion
1.   Demand for Export Insurance in Senegal, JPG Consultants,
February 1987.
2.   Export Promotion in Senegal, P. Queyrane, November 1986.
3.   Towards Development of Exports in Senegal,
J. de la Vallee, May 1986.
D.   Selected Working Papers
1.   The Public Financial Sector in Senegal, WA2DB, October
1986.
2.   Industrial Policy Review, INDSP, April 1986.
AFSIE
November 1987



- V -
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREIT AN) PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Senegal
Financial Intermediaries:   - Comercial and specialized banks
customarily involved in industrial lending
(restructuring and new investments)
- SOFISEDIT (small-scale enterprises)
Beneficiaries:               - Manufacturing enterprises
- Displaced employees of the industrial
sector
- Various agencies supporting the industrial
sector
Credit Amount:                 SDR 25.0 million (US$33 million equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project DescritioE:            The project would facilitate the adjustment
of the manufacturing sector to the reformed
incentive policies through: (i) an apex-type
line of credit (US$25 million) for
restructuring and new industrial investments;
(ii) a retraining and SSE lending program
(US$5 million) to assist displaced workers of
the industrial sector; and (iii) a technical
assistance comionent (US$3 million) to
strengthen the Ministry of Industry and other
institutions supporting the reform process.
Onlending Terms:             - The apex line of credit would be made
available by the Central Bank to
participating banks at 5.0% p.a. for
onlending to beneficiary enterprises at 9.5%
p.a., with maturities of 3-13 years and grace
periods of 1-2 years.
- Funds for the establlshment of small-scale
enterprises by displaced workers would be
onlent to SOFISEDIT at 3.5% p.a., and to
final beneficiaries at 8.5% p.a., with
maturities of 3-6 years including up to one
year of grace. As with the above line of
credit, the foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the Government.



- vi -
Project Benefits:              The project would facilitate the adjustment
of industries to the new incentive system.
Provision of financing under the line of
credit will sustain modernization efforts of
existing enterprises, helping them regain or
maintain competitiveness on both domestic and
export markets; it would also foster the
emergence of new poles of industrial growth
that are better able to positively contribute
to the national economy. The reorganization
of the export promotion and insurance
agencies would enable the development of new
markets abroad. The provision of technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry would
enhance its capacity, enabling it to
effectively implement the policy reforms.
Finally, assistance to displaced employees
for retraining and setting up of SSEs would
alleviate the social cost of the reforms,
thus enhancing their sustainability.
Project Risks:                 A major risk, which could result in slow
disbursement of the line of credit, is that
the banking system may be reluctant to
increase its financial exposure to the
industrial sector perceived as more risky
than traditional sectors such as commerce.
To minimize this risk, terms and conditions
under the line of credit (including lending
spread) have been structured in such a way as
to be attractive to the banks.  Another risk
is that restructuring as well as new
investments in the industrial sector may be
slow to materialize on account of the initial
uncertainty caused by the reformed incentive
framework and lower effective protection. It
is indeed expected that the line of credit
will initially be used to finance mostly the
restructuring and modernization of existing
capacities. After the initial adjustment,
the revised incentive system should, however,
provide a sustainable basis for the
development of new industrial investment
opportunities.



- vii -
Estimated Costs
% of
Local     Foreign   Total     Total Cost
----…(US$ million)------
Technical Assistance                 0.9       2.4       3.3            8
Industrial Investments               6.3     25.0       31.3           77
Retraining and SSE Lending
Program                             4.7 a/   1.5        6.2           15
Total                            11.9 -   28.9       40.8          100
Financing Plan
IDA                                  4.1     28.9       33.0           81
Government                           1.2        -        1.2            3
Internal Financing/Subproject
v.ponsors (Line of Credit)         6.3       _         6.3           15
Subproject Sponsors
(SSE lending scheme)                0.3                0.3             1
Total                            11.9     28.9       40.8          100
a/ Including US$4 million of taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year  88   89   90   91   92    93    94    95    96    97   98
___________________________________________________________
Annual          0.3  2.2  4.1  5.0   5.2   4.8   4.3   3.1   2.2   1.5  0.3
Cumulative      0.3  2.5  6.6 11.6  16.8  21.6  25.9  29.0  31.2  32.7 33.0
Economic Rate of Return:  A minimum Economic Rate of Return of 10% is
required for all inve-stment subprojects under
the line of credit.
Map: IBRD No. 20620
AFSIE
November 1987



* Ili(\ -



SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      As the administrative and political center of colonial French
West Africa, Senegal was left at independence with a relatively well
equipped physical and social infrastructure, and its economy was the most
developed in francophone West Africa. Senegal has since experienced one of
the lowest average real growth rates of any African State not affected by
war or civil strife (2.3% per annum since 1960). In 1986, Senegal's per
capita GNP stood at US$420, well below that of Cameroon (US$810) or Cate
d'Ivoire (US$720). The economy is still dependent on traditional mainstays
of millet cultivation and cattle raising for domestic consumption, and on
groundnut and phosphate production for exports which are highly vulnerable
to climatic and international market vagaries. Half of Senegal's basic
food requirements continues to be imported and gains in real incomes have
been absorbed by the nigh population growth (3% per annum). The modern
sector remains concentrated in the Dakar and coastal belt, resulting in
important interregional and urban-rural disparities. Finally, the economy
has only witnessed small structural shifts of employment from agriculture
to industry: agriculture still employs over three-fourths of the work
force, producing 192 of aggregate domestic output; the secondary sector
(10% of the work force) conttbutes 29% of GDP and services (13% of work
force) provide 52% of GDP.
1.02      Faced with important structural imbalances and an imminent
balance of payments crisis, the Government has initiated since 1980
important policy reforms aimed at fostering sustainable economic growth and
financial stability. These reforms were supported by the IMF under a
series of standby arrangements, and by the World Bank under three
successive structural adjustment loans, with the last one approved in May
1987 (Report No. P-4498-SE). Reforms undertaken by the Government were
aimed at: (i) rationalizing incentive policies to accelerate the
development of agricultural and industrial production; (ii) progressively
withdrawing the State from direct involvement in productive activities and
promoting private sector initiatives; and (iii) generally improving
efficiency in public resource management, including investment programming,
current expenditure control, debt management and reform of the parastatal
sector.
1.03      The Government's commitment to the reforms has been strong, and
early response of tbe economy, which also reflects the favorable climatic
conditions over the last two years, has been favorable. Inflation has
slowed down somewhat (7.5% in 1986 as against 13.2% in 1984), and the trade
deficit declined in 1986 to CPAF 71 billion (6% of GDP, and half the
previous year's level). As a result of successive reschedulings, the debt
service ratio was kept at a manageable level (21% in 1986). These en-
couraging signs notwithstanding, Senegal's long-term prospects will



- 2 -
continue to depend critically on the country's ability to reorient its
economic base under the new policy framework and set the conditions for
stable development. Continued donors' support throughout the restructuring
process of the economy will be a crucial factor in the success of this
strategy.
1.04      An important thrust of the adjustment effort has been the
rationalization of policies which had hindered the development of the
industrial sector. Characterized by a high and disparate level of
protection on domestic markets, inefficient regulations and cumbersome
administrative procedures, the industrial sector has remained virtually
stagnant since independence and its competitive position on external
markets has even further eroded. In the context of the Structural
Adjustment Programs (and particularly SALs II and III) the Government
undertook a comprehensive program of reforms including among others the
removal of quantitative restrictions, harmonization of the tariff struc-
ture, generalization of the common trade regime, liberalization of labor
and pricing policies, streamlining of business regulations and procedures,
and reinforcement of export promotion policies.
1.05      These industrial sector reforms now underway are expected to
induce existing enterprises to restructure their operations in order to
retain competitiveness in the domestic market and to penetrate external
markets. They are also expected to promote the development of a new
generation of viable industrial activities in growth areas of the sector.
At the same time, a number of markedly uncompetitive operations or product
lines unable to remain viable under the rationalized protection system are
bound to disappear, which will entail a short-term negative impact on
sector employment. The proposed project will support this complex
adjustment process by providing:   (i) a line of credit to help finance
restructuring as well as new investments in the sector; (ii) assistance to
displaced workers through training progra:ns and financing of small-scale
enterprises; and (iii) technical assistance to strengthen the institutions
suprirting the reorientation of industrial activities,
II. THE INDTUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Sector Background
2.01      Benefitting from substantial foreign and private investments,
Senegal developed in the post-war era a prominent industrial base in the
region. The industrial sector (including mining and energy) today
generates 29% of GDP and employs 40,000 workers (i.e., 20% of formal sector
employment). Manufacturing alone employs 27,000 persons in the formal
sector in about 300 enterprises, most of which are located in Dakar and the
surrounding areas. Manufacturing exports, which mainly include fish,
groundnut, petroleum and c' mical products, represent about 28% of
Senegalese exports (Annex 2.01).



- 3 -
2.02      Agro-industries dominate the manufacturing sector accounting for
about 40% of industrial value added and employment. The largest enter-
prise in the sector is the CSS (Compagnie sucriere sgnggalaise - sugar
manufacturing enterprise) which produces and refines sugar in the
Saint-Louis area, employing about 5,000 permanent employees. CSS, which
holds a monopoly for the Senegalese domestic market, has been incurring
high production costs due in part to the costly irrigation and drainage
processes required. The traditional export-oriented groundnut oil industry
comprises two recently merged mixed economy enterprises (SONACOS and SEIB)
and employs 2,000 workers. It has processed on average 320,000 tons of
groundnuts annually over the last 5 years, well below its production
capacity of 920,000 tons, reflecting the deterioration of the worldwide
demand for these products. The fishing and canning industry (4,000 workers
in over 60 firms) produces almost exclusively for export markets and has
been hampered by poor competitiveness and decreasing supplies. Other
agro-industries include a tobacco factory, flour mills, dairy product
industries and a soft drink and beer producer.
2.03      The chemical subsector is second in importance (15% of industrial
value added and employment). The ICS (Industries chimiques du Sgnegal) was
set up in 1983 to transform local phosphates from the Ta!ba mines and
imported sulfur into fertilizers and phosphoric acid, mostly for exports.
ICS production capacity of 220,000 tons is largely underutilized due to the
worldwide recession in the fertilizer market over the last 2-3 years.
Another major enterprise in the sector is the petroleum refinery (Socite
africaine de raffinage - SAR) which was set up in 1964 with a capacity of
1,400,000 tons, currently underutilized as a result of the low price
differential on international markets between crude and refined petroleum
products. The chemical subsector also includes small enterprises producing
pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, paints, soaps, plastics and batteries.
2.04      Ihe textile and leather subsector represents 14% of industrial
value added and 13% of employment. Based on local cotton, the 15 textile
enterprises in Senegal are involved in all stages of production. This
subsector is dominated by the majority State-owned SODEFITEX which
primarily gins cotton, and a group of three enterprises, SOTIBA, ICOTAF,
and STS, which are owned by private Senegalese interests. SOTIBA buys gray
cloth from STO and manufactures printed cloth for the local and regional
markets, while ICOTAF spins, weaves and finishes cotton and polyester. The
leather industry is concentrated in shoe manufacturing which has suffered
from the intense competition of plastic shoes and low-cost imports.
2.05      Other industrial activities in Senegal comprise:  (i) metal and
mechanical industries, including a naval repair outfit (Dakar Marine)
employing 700 employees, and can manufacturers whose poduction is absorbed
by the local agro-industries; (ii) construction materials industries which
are dominated by a 825,000 ton cement factory (SOCOCIM), which has been
operating below capacity as a result of its high cost structure and
declining local demand; the construction materials subsector also includes
small manufacturers of plaster, lime and asbestos; and (iii) paper
industries, concentrated in printing and packaging.



- 4 -
2.06      State participation in the manufacturing sector (Annex 2.02) is
limited to a dozen enterprises, which together account for 30% of
manufacturing value added. Most of these participations were taken by the
State in the 1975-80 period, including majority interests in the four
largest groundnut oil processing enterprises and in the two phosphate
mining companies. The groundnut oil processing and phosphate sectors today
account for two-thirds of State ownership in productive activities of the
economy. In the same time period, the State also acquired interests in
various other industrial activities such as salt and cotton ginning, and
initiated projects which were to include substantial participation (e.g.,
ICS - fertilizer industry, and Dakar Marine - naval repair). Under SALs II
and III, the Government has undertaken to disengage itself from productive
sectors (except for those considered strategic such as groundnut and
phosphate mining), and has started selling to the private sector its shares
in various enterprises.
2.07      The structure of the sector has not substantially changed since
independence (1960), being still dominated by the processing of traditional
local resources for exports (groundnuts, fish, phosphates) and by
manufacturing activities based on imported intermediate inputs. The value
added continues to be low, averaging 34% of turnover industry-wide, and is
particularly so in groundnut milling (9%), car assembly (7%) and fish
processing (7%). The manufacturing sector remains heavily concentrated,
with each subsector dominated by two or three enterprises. The largest
140 enterprises generate about 95% of manufacturing production, and the
largest 40, 80%. Finally, the biggest private firms continue to be under
foreign ownership. Foreign partners of the enterprises commonly provide
technical assistance (the sector employs about 600 expatriates), management
expertise, market outlets for exports and intermediate inputs for import-
substituting industries. The local private sector continues to concentrate
on trade.
2.08      The Senegalese industrial sector, except for a period of moderate
growth in the eatly 1960s, has been virtually stagnant since independence.
Industrial value added grew at an average of 4.3% p.a. (1964-1984),
substantially lower than Cote d'Ivoire (5.7%), Cameroon (7.2%) or Kenya
(5.5%). Particularly low growth rates were experienced in chemical, oil
processing, and construction materials industries (Annex 2.03). Capacity
utilization of existing equipment is low, averaging about 60% industry-
wide, particularly in groundnut oil milling (about 30% capacity
utilization), in textiles (40-60%), mechanical industries (some plants
operate below 20% of capacity), and fish processing (50%). Financial
performance has usually been minimal (profits averaged 2.0% of assets
industry-wide in 1984), and many enterprises are heavily indebted (debt/
equity ratio averaging 4:1 industry-wide), particularly in the mechanical
and chemical subsectors. Performance indicators of industries by
subsectors are shown in Annex 2.04.



- 5-
B. .onstraints on Sector Development
2.09      This disappointing sector performance resulted in part from the
country's adverse environment. The contraction after independence in the
size of the market for local induscries was a root cause of the chronic
underutilization of industrial capacity noted above. Senegal's Industries,
which prior to independence catered to the needs of the entire former
French West Africa (population of 29 million), served afterwards the much
smaller domestic market (3 million at the time, about 6.2 million today).
The rather limited resource base discouraged diversification of Senegalese
industries beyond traditional export-oriented activities. International
price vagaries also adversely affected the development of the groundnut and
phosphate industries. Finally, the successive droughts in the 1970s and
early 19809 affected agricultural output and domestic revenues, thus
constraining the development of agro-industries and growth in the local
demand for manufactured products.
2.10      In addition to these factors, Senegalese industries were
handicapped by high production costs. Enterprises typically use obsolete
equipment and technology (over half of the plants were set up prior to
1970, and little modernization investments were undertaken since their
inception). Labor cost is relatively high due to high unit cost and low
productivity resulting from heavy social regulations which include
restrictions on hiring and firing and high minimum wages (CFAF 184/hour in
1986, I.e., more than twice those in Togo, Benin, and Mali). Energy is
also expensive in comparison with other African countries because it is
totally produced from petroleum products made available at a relatively
high cost by the local refinery (industrial power costs an average of
CFAF 50-56 per kWh, as compared to CFAF 28-30 per kWh in C8te d'Ivoire, and
CSAF 35-40 per kWh in Togo). Since Senegal belongs to the UMOA zone,
exchange rate adjustments were not an option. High local costs had
therefore a substantial impact on the competitiveness of industrial
products.
C. Industrial Policies
2.11      To protect local industries against foreign competition on the
limited domestic market, the 5overnment after independence established high
tariff barriers, with nominal rates averaging about 50% (Annex 2.05).
Tariff rates for intermediate goods were lower than those for final goods,
which effectively discouraged the local production of intermediate
products, while encouraging instead those industries involved in the final
stages of transformation of imported inputs. Tariff protection was
supplemented by numerous quantitative restr.ctions on a large number of
products (over 160), particularly in the agro-industrial and textile
subsectors. In addition, the Government granted various exceptions to the
common regime on an ad hoc basis. These exceptions were granted in about
27 enterprise conventions, with varying sets of benefits; 15 of these
conventions are still in effect. The Government also granted to a number
of industries pro5uct-specific exceptions to the common tariff regime



- 6 -
recorded in a detailed schedule annexed to the custom tariff 1/. These
numerous exceptions resulted in an intractable system of distortionary
benefits and intense lobbying by enterprises for the continuation of the
status quo. For a long time this system insulated uncompetitive
industries from market failure at a high cost to the economy.
2.12      To support efforts by industries to reach new markets abroad, the
Government in the late 1970s initiated a number of expurt promotion schemes
which r-ly partially achieved their objectives. The Export Processing Zone
(EPZ) set up in 1976, was hindered by excessive bureaucracy, the same heavy
labor regulations as those constraining other Senegalese enterprises, and
high energy costs. In addition, enterprises in the EPZ were not permitted
to serve the Senegalese market, among the more important in West Africa.
Only seven enterprises currently operate in the EPZ, utilizing less than
10% of the 650 ha area initially developed and employing about 600 workers.
An Export Subsidy Scheme was developed in 1980 to partly offset the trade
regime's bias towards production for the domestic market, but failed to
increase manufactured exports in any substantive manner partly on account
of the very basis for the calculation of the subsidy (FOB value of the
exported product instead of value added). In effect, this system favored
traditional, resource-based exports, such as the fish freezing and canning
industries, which absorbed about 40% of the total subsidy each (1984).
Numerous support institutions for industrial exports were set up by the
Government in the 1970s and early 1980s (ASACE - export credit insurance,
AFINACE - export credit subsidy scheme, CSCE - Senegal Center for External
Trade, SOFIDAK - International Dakar Fair), but these institutions, which
were merged in 1986 within a new entity CICES ("Centre international du
commerce extgrieur du S4n6gal" - International Center for External Trade)
had little impact despite heavy subsidies and support by external donors,
as a result of poorly defined objectives, bureaucratic administration, and
a low degree of interface with the private sector.
2.13      An inefficient regulatory framework and bureaucratic constraints
further dampened the development of the manufacturing sector. The Invest-
ment Code, in effect since 1981 (Annex 2.06), tended to favor
capital-intensive projects, allowed the signing of enterprise-specific
conventions (para. 2.11), and its benefits were granted on the basis of
ill-defined eligibility criteria upon successful completion by enterprises
of cumbersome application procedures. Enterprise creation has been subject
to lengthy delays on account of complex formalities. Numerous
authorizations and procedural delays have also hampered external trade
(prior authorization for exports, import/export card, inefficient drawback
scheme). Price controls applied to most industrial products; based on
cost-plus formulas, they have sometimes ensured adequate returns to
inefficient producers while, in other cases, necessary price increases have
been delayed by administrative procedures. Heavy internal trade
1/   "Tarifs par destination".



-7-
regulations (including limited access to the status of trader, statutory
distinction between wholesalers and retailers, and legislation prohibiting
industries from directly selling their products to consumers) reduced
competition among traders and increased the cost of distribution for many
enterprises.
D. The SAL Programs of Industrial Reforms
2.14      Supported by IDA under SALs II and III, the Government has
initiated a comprehensive program of reforms to rationalize the incentive
system, promote industrial exports and reduce rigidities in industrial and
trade regulations. This program is shown in a matrix form in Annex 2.07
and is discussed in paras. 2.15-2.18.
2.15      Protection system.  With a view to harmonizing tariff protection,
the Government has since June 1986: (a) reduced the average nominal level
of duties to about 40% and narrowed the tariff band (Annex 2.08);
(b) initiated a program to progressively remove quantitative restrictions
over an 18-month period according to an agreed calendar. Quantitative
restrictions in the agro-industrial, construction materials, metal/
metallurgical, chemical and packaging subsectors have already been lifted
and those remaining are expected to be eliminated per the agreed timetable;
and (c) undertaken to progressively generalize the common regime to all
enterprises by (i) restricting the use of reference prices to countering
underinvoicing and dumping practices (a substantial number of reference
prices were eliminated in October 1987), (ii) eliminating product-specific
exemptions to the custom tariff by December 1987 except as justified on
social grounds (e.g., for pharmaceutical products), and (iii) renouncing
the practice of enterprise conventions and phasing out existing ones. To
that effect, the Government, with the assistance of external consultants,
has undertaken a study of enterprise conventions in effect. 'ihis study,
now available in draft form, is to lead to the foxulation by the
Government of a program of follow-up actions, including the renegotiation
of specific conventions with a view to gradually eliminat.'ng their
provisions which cunstitute exceptions to the common regime.
2.16      Investment Code.  The Investment Code has been revised in July
1987 to: (a) eliminate the bias towards capital intensity; (b) introduce a
system of declining benefits to induce efficiency as enterprises develop;
and (c) set clear and automatic eligibility criteria. Annex 2.09 outlines
provisions of the new Investment Code.   In addition, procedures to grant
Investment Code benefits are being streamlined through the setting up of a
cell at the Ministry of Finance to screen and approve benefit requests.
2.17      Export promotion.  To improve incentives for Senegalese
industries on export markets, the Government has: (a) streamlined the duty
dzawback system (June 1986) and undertaken to simplify other export
procedures including custom formalities (November 1987); (b) revised the
basis underlying the export subsidy scheme to base it on domestic value
added (June 1986); (c) undertaken to restructure the Export Promotion
Agency (CICES) and the Export Credit Insurance Agency (ASACE) on the basis



of consultant studies completed in June 1987 (paras. 4.20-4.21); and (d)
decided to redefine the roles of the various ministries involved in quality
control and standardization functions (by December 1987).
2.18      Business regulations.  The Government has simplified the
regulatory environment of private enterprises through the following
measures: (a) the labor law and procedures are being amended to facilitate
the adjustment by enterprises In the level of their workforce (e.g., by
allowing enterprises more autonomy In hiring decisions, and more flex-
ibility in renewing temporary work contracts); (b) studies have been
undertaken to lay the basis for additional labor reforms aimed at
increasing labor productivity (e.g.. development of productivity-related
incentives, participation of workers in equity, profit sharing, and
reduction of social charges levied on employers); (c) price controls on
manufactured goods ore being relaxed in line with the removal of
quantitative restrictions; and (d) the more cumbersome administrative
constraints on internal distribution of Industrial products are being
el-dinated, including the statutory distinction between wholesalers and
retailers, allowing industrial enterprises to directly sell their
production to consumers.
E. Sector Institutions
2.19      The Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts (NDIA) plays a key role
in the formulation and implementation of inustrial policy reforms. This
ministry (organization chart In Annex 2.10) comprises six departments
(Mining and Geology, Energy, IndustrTy,  andicrafts, Administration, and
Regional Services). The Department of Industry has three divisions dealing
with: (a) planning, legislation, and promotiong (b) technology, and
industrial property; and (c) industrial production. The latter is itself
divided into five technical services specialized by subsector (agro-
industries, textiles, wood and paper, mechanical industries, and chemical
industries). Ill-equipped to face the Important task of monitoring the
adjustment process, the Department of Industry since 1985 has been
receiving intensive technical support under a UNDP-financed program,
including UNIDO advisors to help in the design of some key reforms (e.g.,
protection system). The project would provide additional technical
assistance to further reinforce the capabilities of MDIA (para 4.18).
2.20      The SONEPI (industrial promotion agency) was set up in 1969 as a
mixed ownership company with UNIDO assistance to assist local business in
establishing or expanding enterprises. SONEPI helps enterprises prepare
feasibility studies and market analyses, provides extension services to
selected enterprises, and organizes training semiars. In addition, it
oversees five industrial estates (Thies, Ziguinchor, Dakar, Kaolack, and
Saint-Louis) and until recently was responsible for screening requests for
Investment Code benefits on behalf of the Government. Finally, SONEPI
manages a small participation fund and a guarantee scheme. SONEPI has a
staff of 74, including 32 professional staff grouped in four services
(Administration, Enterprise Studies, Extension Services, and Information).
Despite considerable technical assistance (by KfW, UNID0, and IDA under



- 9 -
Credit 1136-SE), SONEPI's performance has been disappointing, benefitting
but a limited number of small- and medium-scale enterprises, partly on
account of the dispersion of its activities. The Government has now
decided to restructure SONEPI's activities with a view to enhancing its
effectiveness in promoting Senegalese enterprises as well as in helping
channelling foreign investments in Senegal. Under this reform, SONEPI
would provide general promotion and information services; it would be
relieved of the management of the five industrial estates which would
become autonomous and its enterprise study department would be split off
into an affiliated company in which active private sector participation
would be sought and which would become financially autonomous. These
reforms, which are expected to substantially improve the impact of this
agency, would be supported by a UNDP-financed program of technical and
budgetary assistance.
F. Impact of the Industrial Sector Reforms
2.21      The program of industrial reforms undertaken by the Government is
expected to substantially affect the structure of the sector. While
generating new growth opportunities, it will force many enterprises to
maintain their competitiveness through restructuring, including progres-
sively phasing out those activities which had been artificially kept
profitable by an excessively protective incentive system. A recent study
was commissioned by the Government to analyze the impact of the reform on
the industrial sector and to evaluate the restructuring potential of
existing enterprises. The study, which was carried out by the Boston
Consulting Group (BCG) under PPF financing, included the in-depth review of
a sample of sixty representative enterprises accounting for 80% of
employment. For each enterprise of the sample, the consultants analyzed
the enterprise's operations, market, cost structure, competitiveness (in
domestic and external markets); the consultants also reviewed the
enterprise's prospects under the new incentive framework and made
recommendations regarding their development strategy including needs for
adjustment in the workforce, changes in marketing policies and processes,
modernization/restructuring investments, and working capital requirements.
The consultants finally provided subsector and sectorwide extrapolations of
their findings to determine the expected overall impact of the reform on
employment, investment requirements and export potential in the various
industrial activities. The major conclusions of this study are outlined in
.~nnex 2.11 and summarized below.
2.22      Essentially, the BCG study indicated that while most existing
enterprises have, after appropriate restructuring, the potential to become
competitive under the new incentive framework, a number of activities will
be forced to close down. Many of the potentially viable enterprises are
expected to restructute their operations through modernization investments,
rationalization of production processes, introduction of new technologies
and other reductions in operating costs (including adjustments in the work
force). The consultant's study concluded that the full restructuring of
the Senegalese manufacturing sector would over time require overall
investments of about CFAF 13 billion and a reduction in the labor force ir



- 10 -
existing activities by about 4,300 people (out of a total formal
manufacturing sector employment of 27,000). At the same time, new growth
opportunities and export potential are expected to materialize under the
reformed incentive system, particularly in the agro-industrial and chemical
subsectors.
Table 2.04: Impact of the Incentive Reform on the Manufacturing Sector
Financial
Requirements
(investments
Employment  a/   and incremental  /         Incremental
Impact      -   w.rking capital) a   Export Potential a
(No of          ------CFAF million--------------
jobs lost)   %
Agro-industries      2,520     60         5,605                  18,900
Textiles               530      13        4,870                   2,700
Leather, paper,
and board             440     10           250                     450
Chemicals              350      8           300                   1,550
Construction
materials              60       1        1,110                   7,515
Metals, mechanical    325        8          880                      575
Total             4,225    100        13,040                  31,690
Source: BCG Study.
a/ Mid-point of estimate range.
2.23      The agro-industrial and textile activities would account for over
90% of financial requirements and 73% of expected job losses in the
manufacturing sector. These two subsectors also have the largest potential
in developing exports. Within agro-industries, fish processing will
require the largest investments (about US$10 million) to support a strategy
of product diversification, capacity rationalization and modernization.
Similar measures will be needed in flour-milling industries. To remain
competitive, the latter will also need continued protection against
subsidized imports from the EEC (e.g., through appropriate reference
prices). In response to stagnating demand and falling world market prices,
a concentration of existing capacities in the oil and fats production will
be required. Finally, in the sugar industry, the Government with French
assistance has undertaken a restructuring program for CSS. Under this
program, direct operating subsidies to the CSS would be ended as a result
of cost reduction measures and managerial improvements agreed in May, 1987
between the Government and CSS. This program would be supplemented by
specific measures to be formulated on the basis of a financial and
operational audit of CSS which the Government agreed to undertake under



- 11 -
SAL III. Sugar-based industries (e.g., soft drinks) are expected to
benefit from prices substantially closer to market prices and hence improve
their market position both locally and abroad. The major restructuring
objective of the textile industry will be to enhance its competitiveness
so as to maintain its market position in Europe and develop exports to CEAO
(Communaut6 6conomique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest - Economic
Community of Western African States). Substantial restructuring and
modernization investments are needed for this purpose in spinning (about
US$5.6 million) and weaving (about US$2.4 million).
2.24      Rationalization of existing enterprises in the paper, board,
leather, and metal-mechanical subsectors will involve cost reduction
programs as well as the discontinuation of some activities.   Suffering
from diseconomies of scale and unable to compete with imports from Asia,
the production of leather and tennis shoes is likely to be substantially
reduced. Similarly, paper and packaging industries are expected to abandon
several product lines which are particularly sensitive to economies of
scale. and in the metal-mechanical sector, vehicle and cycle assembly
activities are not competitive with imports from Asia. On the other hand,
Senegalese production of agricultural implements is efficient and exports
to CEAO countries should substantially increase.
2.25      While adjustment will also be required in the chemical subsector,
the latter has considerable growth potential under the new incentive
system. The plastics subsector in particular is expected to become highly
competitive vis-a-vis imports, with some concentration of activities and a
substantial reduction in the labor force. Reduction in costs will also be
required in the production of ordinary soaps, detergents, paints and
matches, but these are intrinsically sound industries, capable of competing
against imports and developing some export p-tential. Finally, the
pharmaceutical industries should develop a substantial export potential in
the coming years.
2.26      The construction materials subsector also has untapped growth
potential after rationalization. In particular, SOCOCIM, the cement
enterprise, is expected to become competitive with imports from Europe,
contingent upon a reduction in its unit cost of production through
increases in activity level of the enterprise as a result of a more dynamic
export-oriented policy (e.g., towards Cote d'Ivoire and Mali); lower costs
would in turn result in increased domestic demand and benefit the activity
of downstream industries such as fibrocement.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Policy Framework
3.01      Senegal is a member of the West African Monetary Union (Union
monetaire ouest-africaine - UMOA) together with six other francophone



- 12 -
countries (Benin, Burkina, C8te d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Since
1962, members of the Union snare a common currency (CFA Franc) fully
guaranteed by France and freely convertible into the French Franc at a
fixed parity, a common Central Bank (Banque centrale des Etats de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest - BCEAO) and common credit and monetary policic. which however
provide for different monetary and credit targets in each country. BCEAO
has its headquarters in Dakar, and a national agency in each member
country. It is administered by a Board of Directors and is managed by a
Governor.
3.02      BCEAO regulates credit allocation through various instruments
including: (i) the setting of yearly targets for its credit support to
each member country's economy, based on projections of economic activity
and prices, balance of payments and banks' resources; (ii) rediscounting of
up to 35% of each individual bank's portfolio (excluding seasonal
agriculture credits); (iii) sectoral coefficients to direct minimum share
of credits towards priority areas of the economy (e.g., SSEs, agriculture,
social housing); and (iv) prior approval for all bank loans in excess of a
predetermined amount (CFAF 70 million). In addition, BCEAO regulates the
activity of financial institutions, inter alia by prior approval of new
banking institutions and branch offices, and enforcing minimum requirements
for capital, reserves, and liquidity (Annex 3.01).
3.03      Lending and deposit interest rates are set by the BCEAO for all
countries in the Union; the evolution of these rates since 1975 is shown in
Annex 3.02. Lending rates are linked to two base rates, the preferential
(TEP) and the normal (TEN) rediscount rates, the latter having been
maintained constantly at 2.5 percentage points above the former. The
preferential rate applies to such priority activities as seasonal
agriculture credit, small- and medium-scale national enterprises (SMEs) 2/
and low-cost housing, while the normal rate applies to all other
activities. A service tax (TPS) of 17% is levied on interest paid on all
loans. Over the last 10 years, effective interest rates paid by borrowers
have remained positive in real terms. Table 3.1 below summarizes the
current structure of lending rates.
2/   Small and medium national enterprises are defined as those which are
managed and majority-owned by nationals with outstanding credits not
exceeding CFAF 30 million.



- 13 -
Table 3.1: Lending Interest Rates (1)
(As of September 1986)
Authorized    Authorized
Rediscount Rates      Spreads      Final Rates a/
Preferential Activities
Seasonal Crop Financing           6                 1-2           7-8
SME and Housing                   6                 1-3           7-9
Normal Activities
Trade                             8.5               1-5         9.5-13.5
Industry                          8.5              2-5         10.5-13.5
Other                             8.5               3-5        11.5-13.5
a/ Excluding TPS
3.04      Deposit rates of interest have been adjusted periodically in
parallel with lending rates; their evolution since 1975 is shown in Annex
3.03. Since September 1986* remuneration on term deposits of less than six
months have ranged from a fixed rate of 4.252 on deposits of less than
CPAF 200,000 (about US$640) to a minimum of 5.75X on deposits of over
CFAF 2 million (about US$6,400), wbile term deposits of one year or longer
have earned a minimum return varying from 6.251 for deposits up to
CFAP 200,000 to 8% for deposits above CPAF 2 million. Savings accounts are
remunerated at 6.52, and cash certificates at 5.25-81 depending on amount
and term. While sight deposits above CFAF 200,000 have generally received
interest, their compulsory remuneration was suspended for a 2-year period
comencing January 1, 1985.  A TPS of 10% (recently reduced from 17%, para.
3.12) applies to all intereste paid on deposits. Table 3.2 below provides
the current structure of deposit rates.



- 14 -
Table 3.2: Deposit Interest Rates (%) a/
(As of September 1986)
Slght deposits                     not administered
Term Deposits
Less than 6 months                  4.25-5.75
o - 12 months                       5.23-7
Over 12 months                      6.25-8
Cash Certificates
6 - 12 months                       5.25-7
Over 12 months                      6.25-8
Savings Accounts                      6.5
a/ Excluding TPS
B. Financial Institutions
3.05      The financial sector comprises 14 banks and five financial
institutions including: (a) five commercial banka with foreign
participation (BICIS, USB, SGBS, BIAO, and Citibank); (b) four development
banks (BNDS - general purpose, CNCA - agriculture, BHS - housing, and
SOFISEDIT - industry and tourism); and (c) a group of smaller, privately
owned, Senegalese banks (e.g., BCS). Five banks (BNDS, USB, SGBS, BIAO,
and BICIS) account for close to 85% of total banking assets. The State
holds majority interest in BNDS and USB, and minority interest in BICIS,
BIAO, CNCA, SOFISEDIT, and BHS. Key data on each bank are shown below
(Table 3.3) and summarized balance sheets are in Annex 3.04; the evolution
of the aggregated balance sheet of the banking system over the period
1980-85 is shown in Annex 3.05.



- 15 -
Table 3.3: Summarized Data on the Banking System
(September 30, 1985)
State                                               Loans to
Ownership   Number of   Total           Credits       Industry
%       Branches    Assets  %   (% of Total)  (% of Total)
(CFt.F
billion)
BNDS            73         8         164.5   30       23.4          16.5
USE             62        11          87.3   16       19.2           9.9
SGBS            -          7          81.7   15       17.2          20.9
BICIS           42        13          66.8   12       13.2          23.5
BIAO            35        11          64.9   12       13.8          15.7
Others                     9          90.7   15       13.2          13.5
Total                   59         555.9  100      100.0         100.0
3.06      Commercial banks such as BIAO and BICIS have been primarily
concentrating on financing trade activities for which the risk is typically
low and returns are high.  Benefitting from their extended networks and
international relations through their foreign partners and correspondents,
these banks attract the business of established enterprises and are able to
collect a large share of available savings. In addition to these
traditional activities, commercial banks have had a large share in the
financing of productive sectors of the economy, including industry, to
which they provide over 70% of financing requirements, both for working
capital and investments; term credits extended by commercial banks for
investments rarely carry maturities of more than seven years. This
extensive involvement by commercial banks in productive sectors is in
response to policies of the Central Bank in the 1970s encouraging lending
to priority sectors, including industry, by providing generous re-
discounting facilities and more recently by setting minimum sectoral
lending ratios. Over the last ten years, however, declining deposits,
increased portfolio arrears (including the ONCAD debt, para. 3.10), and
tighter rediscounting policies reflecting the depressed condition of the
economy have significantly constrained the commercial'banks' lending to
non trade sectors, particularly with respect to term credits.
3.07      Though specialized banks, like commercial banks, tend to give
priority to well-established borrowers, they at the same time cater to the
needs of emerging enterprises and are the principal source of institutional
finance and support to Senegalese small- and medium-scale enterprises.
They are also the principal beneficiaries of external long-term development
resources and thus the predominant source for loans exceeding ten years.
In 1975, the BCEAO undertook major reforms aimed at eliminating the formal
distinction between commercial and development banks, encouraging the
former to actively engage in term lending and the latter in commercial



- 16 -
lending activities. In response to these reforms and in an effort to more
effectively compete with commerclal banks and broaden their resource base,
several specialized banks (including SOPISEDIT since 1985) have started to
collect public deposits and make short-term credits. However, the bulk of
their financing remains term lending, the funding for which is largely
dependent upon Central Bank rediscounting and external lines of credit
including those from the World Bank (para 3.14).
C. Banking Credit
3.08      The evolution of banking credit to the economy since 1980 is
shown in tabular form in Annex 3.06. As of June 1986, outstanding banking
credits to the economy stood at about CFAF 410 billion. Despite a relative
increase over the last six years, the share of medium- and long-term credit
remains limited (22% and 17% respectively) as compared to short-term
credits (61%). This results from the general prudence of the banking
system and the dominance of the service sector in the economy (trade and
tourism together account for over 46% of outstanding banking credits).
Annex 3.07 provides subsector analysis of banking credits to the economy.
Credits to public enterprises, which accounted for close to one half of
total banking credits in the early 1980s have decreased after 1984 to
around 35% as the State started implementing its disengagement policy.
3.09      Loans to manufacturing have rapidly increased since 1980 at an
average pace of 11% per annum to about CFAF 88 billion in 1986. About 70%
of this consists of short-term loans, mostly for working capital, extended
by commercial banks, and 30% are medium- and long-term loans for investment
purposes. Sectoral breakdown of loans to industry is shown in Annex 3.08.
Loans to industry mostly benefitted agro-industries (43%), chemical
industries (26%), and textiles (11%); term lending was directed in priority
towards agro-industries (including CSS) and chemical industries. In 1986,
public enterprises received less than 10% of total credits granted to the
industrial sector.
D. Sector Issues
3.10      The situation of the financial sector has rapidly worsened in the
1970s on account of: (a) an excessive and ill-controlled growth of credits
to the economy without a corresponding increase in the level of resources
(29% and 8% p.a. respectively over the 1976-83 period); (b) frequent State
interference in lending decisions by the banks and support to ill-conceived
agricultural schemes; (c) poor management and lack of internal control in
the banks; (d) a rapid deterioration in the quality of the banks' portfolio
and corresponding increases in arrears, most of which by the public sector
(ONCAD, a defunct government agency, owes about CFAF 100 billion to the six
largest banks); and (e) low profitability of the b&nks due to inadequate
lending spreads (the average of which decreased from 6% in 1974 to about 3%
in 1983) and excessive operating costs.
3.11      To fend off the impending liquidity crisis, the banks had
extensive recourse to BCEAO refinancing (from 25% of their portfolio in



- 17 -
1978 to 41% in 1985, with a 48% peak in 1983,. The most affected were the
two major State-controlled banks, BN.DS and USB, which together accounted
for over 50% of total outstanding credit and 70% of doubtful loans of the
banking system and are heavily dependent on Central Bank refinancing, well
in excess of BCEAO's normal ceilings (respectively 77% and 53% of their
loan portfolio, against a maximum of 35% under UMOA regulations). These
two banks have incurred a chronic deficit with the BCEAO, at a penalty
interest rate of 25.8% p.a., which aggravated their financial situation.
E. The SAL III Program of Financial Sector Reforms
3.12      Under SAL III, the "overnment and the Central Bank, in agreement
with the Bank, have taken significant initial steps toward rehabilitating a
number of distressed banks and preparing further policy measures to improve
financial intermediation. Specific actions already taken or presently
under implementation include the following:
(a) preparation of restructuring programs for the two major banks,
BNDS and USB. Proposals, currently under review by BCEAO and the
Bank, call for: (i) institutional and managerial strengthening;
(ii) rescheduling of outstanding debts to the Central Bank over a
ten-year period at a preferential interest rate (L%); (iii)
increased private sector participation and reduced State
shareholding in the banks' equity; and (iv) State guarantees on
the banks' non-performing portfolio;
(b) strengthening of supervision over banking activities by both the
Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. The Banking Control
Commission at the Ministry of Finance is being reinforced and is
to undertake more frequent and detailed reporting on the banks'
activities. The statutory financial ratios (such as net
worth/risk assets, and liquidity) applicable to primary banks,
are to be monitored and enforced. The Profesaional Bankers
Association is being reactivated to act as the Government's
official interlocutor on legislative and regulatory matters, to
represent the common interests of the primary banks and to help
enhance their independence from the Government;
(c)  reduction (from 17 to 10%) in the TPS applic&-le to deposit
interest income as a means to encourage savings; and
(d) increase (to CFAF one billion) in the minimum capital required to
set up a new bank, in order to ensure the adequate financial
strength of banking institutions.
3.13      The above-mentioned set of initial actions is to be supplemented
by others aiming generally at increasing the effectiveness of financial
intermediation. To pave the way for a comprehensive reform of the
Senegalese financial sector, a Bank-financed study was recently (March
1987) carried out by CIFPB consultants to identify those financial/banking
sector reforms which could be undertaken by Senegal independently from



- 18 -
other countries in the UMOA region. This study is currently under review
by the Government and the Bank, and will serve as a basis for the
preparation of an action program for further sector reform.
F. The Bank's Role in Industrial Finance
3.14      The Bank Group's involvement in industrial finance in Senegal
started with an IFC equity investment in 1971 of CFAF 50 million equivalent
(US$237,530) to support the creation of SOFISEDIT, supplemented by a Bank
line of credit to SOFISEDIT of US$3 million. This was followed in 1975 by
a second line of credit of US$4.2 million. An Investment Promotion Project
in 1981 provided SOFISEDIT with a third line of credit of US$6.5 million
together with an IDA credit of US$2.4 million for equity financing and
technical assistance to SOFISEDIT, SONEPI, and the Ministry of Industry.
The latter line of credit is now fully committed.
3.15      Faced with problems common to most development banks in West
Africa in addition to other difficulties more specific to the Senegalese
financial system (para 3.10), SOFISEDIT's situation deteriorated starting
in the early 1980s. To remedy the situation, a rehabilitation program was
agreed in 1984 between the Government, SOFISEDIT, and the Bank. This
program called for: (i) diversification of activities beyond term lending;
(ii) reinforcement of appraisal, supervision, collection and other internal
procedures; (iii) managerial and organizational improvements; (iv)
tightened control over operating costs; (v) restoration of an adequate
equity base. While imr'Lementation of this program is progressing
satisfactorily, the full consolidation of SOFISEDIT will require further
efforts which are being supported by IDA through technical assistance under
Credit 1136-SE.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Orlgin and Objectives
4.01      The industrial sector reforms undertaken in the context of the
structural adjustment programs (removal of quantitative restrictions,
harmonization of the tariff structure, and the progressive generalization
of the common incentive regime) will require enterprises to modernize or
restructure their operations in an effort to enhance their competitiveness
on both domestic and foreign markets. Growth opportunities are also
expected to develop under the new incentive system, promoting a new
generation of productive investments. At the same time, a number of
inefficient activities are bound to be phased out. Early 1986, the
Government requested IDA's technical and financial assistance to support
the adjustment of the industrial sector to the new incentive framework. In
response to the Government's request, an identification mission was fielded
in April 1986 and the project was appraised in June 1987.
4.02      The project's basic objective would be to facilitate the
adjustment of the industrial sector to the new policy environment.



- 19 -
Specifically, the project would: (a) provide the financing needed to
restructure existing enterprises as well as for viable new investments; (b)
support programs of assistance for displaced employees to help alleviate
the negative social impact of the reforms; and (c) strengthen the
institutions supporting the adjustment process.
B. Project Description
4.03      In line with the above objectives, the project would consist of
the following three components: (a) a line of credit(US$25 million) to help
finance restructuring programs of potentially viable existing enterprises
as well as new projects; (b) a retraining and SSE lending program
(US$5 million) to assist displaced workers of the industrial sector; and
(c) a technical assistance component (US$3 million) to strengthen the
Ministry of Industry, help reorganize export promotion institutions, and
support the operation of the line of credit and of the retraining and SSE
lending program.
C. Line of Credit
4.04      Onlending Arrangements.  In departure from the Bank's past
approach of lending to the Senegalese industrial sector through a single
financial intermediary, SOFISEDIT (para 3.14), the line of credit in this
project would be made available to the banking system as a whole under an
apex arrangement. This approach is in line with the Central Bank's policy
-iince the mid-1970s of abolishing the formal distinction between devel-
opment banks and commercial banks (para 3.07). The national office of the
Central Bank in Dakar would act as the apex institution in administering
the line of credit on behalf of the Government. In view of its extensive
involvement in regulating the financial sector, which includes the
refinancing of a significant share of both short- and medium-term
industrial credits, the Central Bank is the most suitable institution to
play that role. In its capacity as apex institution, the nationai office
of the Central Bank in Dakar would act as the interlocutor of IDA for the
administration of the line of credit, including receipt and review of
subprojects submitted by the participating banks. At negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government on these onlending arrangements,
as well as on eligible intermediaries, eligibility criteria for
investments, subloan processing procedures, and terms and conditions as
described below (paras 4.05-4.09). The signing of a protocol between the
Government and the Central Bank defining the functions and responsibilities
of the latter is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.05      Eligible Intermediaries.  The line of credit would be restricted
to Central Bank regulated and supervised banks customarily involved in
industrial financing, which are in compliance with the Central Bank's
regulations including its refinancing criteria (Annex 3.01). In addition,
banks which are temporarily not in compliance with these regulations may be
given access to the line of credit provided they are in the process of
implementing a restructuring program acceptable to the Government, the
Central Bank and IDA. Based on these criteria, it is expected that SGBS



- 20 -
(Societe Generale de Banque du S6ingal), BICIS (Banque Internationale pour
le Commerce et l'Industrie au Sen6gal), BIAO (Banque Internationale pour
l'Afrique Occidentale) and SOFISEDIT will initially take part in the apex
scheme. Other banks such as USB (Union Senegalaise de Banques) which would
initially be excluded because of their unsatisfactory financial position
might subsequently become eligible upon implementation of an acceptable
restructuring program. Prior to drawing on the line of credit, each
participating bank would be required to sign a subsidiary relending
agreement with the Central Bank on terms and condttions satisfactory to
IDA; a condition of Credit effectiveness is the signing of at least two
such subsidiary relending agreements.
4.06      Eligible Investments and Appraisal Criteria.  The line of credit
would finance expansion and modernization as well as new investments (fixed
assets and working capital) in the industrial sector. All subproject
submissions to the Central Bank would be in accordance with the Bank's
normal standards: they should demonstrate that the subprojects envisaged
for financing are technically, financially and economically sound and that
they have a good potential for adjusting to or operating in the new
incentive system. Specifically, subprojects should generate an incremental
financial rate of return of not less than 12%, and an economic rate of
return of not less than 10%. In addition, financial projections should
demonstrate throughout project implementation: (a) a debt/equity ratio of
no more than 3:1 to be reached from the onset by new investments and after
a reasonable period by expansion/restructuring subprojects; (b) a liquidity
ratio of at least 1.2; and (c) a debt service ratio of at least 1.3.  In
order to ensure that the proceeds of the credit line are spread among an
adequately large number of beneficiaries, the maximum amount of financing
made available under the line of credit to a single subborrower would
normally be limited to CFAF 600 million (about US$1.9 million). The credit
line would finance investments subject to a ceiling of 80% of total
subproject cost.
4.07      Terms and Conditions.  Funds under the line of credit would be
made available to participating banks at an interest rate of 5.0% p.a. and
passed on to final borrowers at 9.5% p.a. In line with prevailing Central
Bank's regulations in the West Africa Monetary Union which do not allow
financial institutions to make foreign currency denominated loans, the
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government against the margin
it retains between the cost of IDA resources (.75%) and the onlending rate
to participating banks (5.0%). The lending margin of 4.5% is considered
adequate to elicit the interest of the banks in utilizing the line of
credit. The above-mentioned onlending rate of 9.5% p.a. is in line with
prevailing BCEAO rates (which range from 7-9% for preferential credits to
9.5-13.5% for normal credits - see Table 3.1), and would also be sub-
stantially positive in real terms in relation to a projected inflation rate
of 5.5% over the 1987 - 1990 period. Maturi.ies would be of up to 13 years
including grace periods of 1-2 years. These maturities are substantially
longer than those of credits refinanced by BCEAO, currently limited to ten
years. This would provide an additional incentive for banks as well as for
enterprises to make use of the line of credit. In the event of a



- 21 -
substantial change in UMOA interest rates, interest rates under the line of
credit would be reviewed jointly by IDA and the Government and adjusted as
necessary to ensure their continued competitiveness in relation to other
resources, in particular Central Bank rediscount.
4.08      Subloan Processing and Administration.  Processing procedures
under the project would to a large extent be patterned upon existing
Central Bank rediscounting practices. Currently, most loans require prior
approval from the Central Bank even if Central Bank refinancing for such
loans is not sought. In line with this procedure, all subloans proposed to
be financed under the line of credit would be submitted by the sponsoring
banks to the Central Bank. The Central Bank would review the submissions
to ensure that subprojects meet minimum eligibility criteria under the
Credit Agreement as well as the Central Bank's own rediscount regulations.
These submissions would then be forwarded to IDA for review and approval.
In view of the involvement of a number of untested intermediaries, IDA will
review in detail the first two subprojects submitted by each intermediary.
Subsequently, assuming satisfactory appraisal standards, a free limit per
intermediary, not to exceed CFAF 100 million, would be set.
4.09      The main features of the line of credit, including its terms and
conditions, criteria to be used in appraising investment projects and
administration procedures, would be outlined in a circular to be made
available (prior to Credit effectiveness) by the Central Bank to the
banking system. In addition, seminars and training courses would be
financed under the Credit to familiarize the staff of the Central Bank and
of participating banks with these criteria, as well as with the content and
format of subproject appraisal to be used under this project (including
economic analyses).
4.10      Demand for Credit.  Central Bank credit authorizations for the
manufacturing sector have averaged CFAF 14.8 billion annually over the last
two years, of which about CFAF 8.5 billion (56%) was for short-term credits
and CFAF 6.3 billion (44%) for medium- and long-term credits (Annex 4.01).
This level of credit demand is expected to increase in the near future as
firms begin to implement restructuring programs to adapt their operations
to the new incentive system. As mentioned earlier (para. 2.22 and Annex
2.11), a recent BCG study estimated restructuring investment needs of the
sector to be of the order of CFAF 13 billion (US$41 million equivalent),
which would have to be financed by term resources. The proposed line of
credit of US$25 million (about CFAF 6.2 billion) will make a substantial
contribution over the next three to five years towards meeting the sector's
financial requirements alongside BCEAO's rediscount and resources to be
made available by bilateral donors.
D. Retraining and SSE Lending Programs
4.11      In the short term, the reform is expected to have an adverse
impact on employment in the industrial sector as enterprises implement cost
reduction programs, and in particular adjust the level of their work force.
As mentioned earlier (para 2.22), it is estimated that about 4,200



- 22 -
employees or 16% of total labor force in the formal manufacturing sector
may stand to lose their jobs over time. The project would support a
program to alleviate this negative impact, through (a) retraining of
laid-off employees to facilitate, whenever feasible, their redeployment in
growth areas of the economy; and (b) loans to help them set up small-scale
enterprises (SSEs).
4.12      Retraining Program (US$2 million).  This component would have as
objective to help laid-off employees in the industrial sector acquire an
expertise which would increase the likelihood of their finding an employ-
ment elsewhere in the economy. The proposed component would finance
vocational training courses in relevant local institutions (private and
public) up to a maximum of US$3,000 per applicant. It would be
administered by the National Office for Vocational Training (ONFP) set up
in July 1987 in the Ministry of National Education. The ONFP (with the
assistance of external consultants financed under the PPF) is in the
process of finalizing the design of the proposed retraining program,
including: (a) the definition of target groups; (b) the list of eligible
institutions; (c) the content of retraining courses; and (d) detailed
procedures for screening and administering applications. This retraining
program was reviewed and agreed at negotiations. Based on an initial
survey of training needs, the Government estimates that about 1,000
individuals (or slightly less than one fourth of the estimated number of
workers to be laid off in the sector) could benefit from such training at
an average cost of US$2,000 per trainee. The amount earmarked for this
component (US$2 million) therefore appears reasonable.
4.13      Small-Scale Enterprise Lending Program (US$3 million).  The
project would also finance the establishment of productive small-scale
enterprises by displaced employees of the industrial sector. This
component would be administered by the Delegation for Employment
(D6legation g6nerale a l'insertion, la r6insertion et a l'emploi) which was
set up at the Presidency in June 1987 to coordinate Government- sponsored
programs of assistance to segments of the population whose jobs are at risk
or job prospects uncertain as a result of economic adjustment, including:
(a) staff of rural development agencies; (b) vniversity graduates; (c)
returning emigrants; (d) public sector personnel; and (e) industrial sector
workers. In this capacity, the Delegation will take over the
administration of the various aseistance programs set up over time by the
Government through several financial institutions (e.g., SONAGA which is
administering an assistance program for university graduates, SOFISEDIT
which is managing a fund set up under IDA Credit 1632-SE to assist in the
establishment of productive activities by employees laid off by rural
agencies).
4.14      As a first task, the Government has designed (with the assistance
of external consultants) a nationwide Entrepreneurship Development Program
(EDP) to: (a) identify among displaced employees those most qualified to
mount viable SSEs; and (b) assist them in the early stages of project
implementation. This EDP program uses screening and coaching techniques
drawing inter alia on a model developed by the Entrepreneurship Development



- 23 -
Institute of India (EDII) which has been replicated in other countries,
including Togo under a recent IDA-financed project. Like the IDII model,
the Senegalese EDP program uses behavioral sciences to select entrepreneurs
with high potential, and would subsequently reinforce their entrepreneurial
orientation through coaching by trainers/motivators throughout the period
of project preparation and the early stages of implementation. Projects to
materialize from this program would seek financing from local banks, which
would take the risk on the loans and supervise the projects. Primary banks
would exercise full independence in deciding whether to approve for
financing any project recommended to it by the Delegation for Employment,
just as it would have the authority to itself identify for financing
projects other than those transmitted to it by the Delegation.
4.15      The proposed Project would support this scheme by helping finance
the setting up of SSEs (in industry, agriculture, transport and trade) by
laid-off workers of the industrial sector. This component would finance up
to 90% of subproject cost (land, equipment and working capital), subject to
a limit of CFAF 20 million per subproject. The small balance of the
project cost is to be contributed by the project sponsor, as a token of
commitment to the success of the venture. Funds under this component would
be lent to the financial intermediary for financing of specific subprojects
at 3.5% per annum and onlent at 8.5%, leaving a margin of 5%, which is
appropriate in relation to the risk pertaining to this type of small scale
lending and high overheads. Eligible subprojects would have to show, on
the basis of simplified appraisal format (currently under preparation), a
financial rate of return of no less than 10%, and a projected debt service
coverage exceeding 1.4. Maturities would be of up to six years including a
grace period of up to one year. The two first subprojects proposed to be
financed under this component would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
Subsequently, project documentation would be retained by the financial
intermediary to be reviewed a posteriori by IDA in the course of project
supervision.
4.16      On account of the specialized nature of this type of lending, and
the desirability of simplifying the administration of the SSE lending
program by limiting the number of intermediaries involved, it is proposed
that funds under this component be initially channelled through a single
intermediary, SOFISEDIT (para. 3.14), which has already gained extensive
experience in SSE lending, having administered a number of lines of credit
for that purpose made available by external bilateral agencies (e.g., KfW,
CCCE). In addition, SOFISEDIT is responsible for channeling funds set
aside under Credit 1632-SE to help laid-off personnel of rural agencies
establish SSEs (para. 4.13), and its performance has been generally
satisfactory. The desirability of adding other financial intermediaries to
SOFISEDIT will be reviewed jointly by the Government and IDA, after an
initial period of two years. Agreement on terms and conditions,
eligibility criteria and detailed procedures for administering the SSE
lending scheme were reached at negotiations, and a subsidiary agreement
between SOFISEDIT and the Government governing the administration of this
scheme would be a condition of disbursement of this component.   To help in
the implementation of this scheme, the project will include technical



- 24 -
assistance to SOFISEDIT during the initial phase (para. 4.22). Based on an
initial. survey undertaken by the Delegation, up to 200 small-scale enter-
prises could be expected to be set up by laid-off industrial employees
under the proposed scheme (about 5% of displaced workers), requiring loans
averaging CFAF 15 million or US$48,000 equivalent. The proposed amount of
US$3 million appears therefore reasonable in relation to needs.
E. Technical Assistance Component
4.17      This component would help strengthen the Ministry of Industrv to
enable it to effectively perform its role in the preparation and
implementation of industrial policy reforms, as well as various
institutions involved in sector adjustment, in particular those engaged in
export promotion. The total cost of this component would be US$3.3 million
of which IDA would finance US$3.0 million (Annex 4.02) and the Government
US$0.3 million in local personnel and other support costs.
4.18      Reinforcement of the Ministry of Industry (US$1.65 million) 3/.
As mentioned earlier (para. 2.19), the Ministry of Industry since 1985 has
received UNDP-financed technical assistance to help design industrial
incentive reforms. This UNDP assistance is expected to continue in the
years ahead and would include: (a) an industrial economist as long-term
advisor to the Directorate of Industry; and (b) the setting up (by January
1988) within the Ministry of a monitorlng system to track the implement-
ation and assess the impact of industrial policy reforms. As a supplement,
the proposed Project would finance: (i) a consultancy fund to provide the
Ministry of Industry with ad-hoc short-term specialized expertise. This
consultancy fund would finance enterprise-specific or sector-wide studies,
including the BCG study completed during project preparation (para 2.21)
and additional studies to be undertaken on the prospects of strategic
subsectors, such as textiles or fish processing. This consultancy fund
would also finance studies to help in the design of specific industrial
policy reforms (e.g., review of enterprise conventions, studies on labor
laws); (ii) local and overseas training programs for MDIA staff involved in
the reform process, focussing primarily on industrial restructuring; and
(iii) equipment (computer and vehicles) needed to efficiently carry out the
preparation of the restructuring and the training programs mentioned
earlier.
4.19      The consultancy fund described above would also be used to
finance a review of the country's legislation relating to industrial
pollution control and occupational health and safety. The study would also
analyze institutional responsibility and capacity for enforcement of the
existing standards and make recommendations for improvement if needed. The
results of this study will be discussed with Bank staff during project
3/   Cost estimates in paras 4.18-4.22 are exclusive of local support costs
borne by the Government.



- 25 -
supervision and an action plan will be agreed to implement the study's
recommendations.
--~  4.20       Restructuring of ASACE (US$240,000).  A consultant diagnostic
study on ASACE was undertaken under the PPF in December 1986 and completed
in June 1987 (summarized in Annex 4.03) . The consultant report suggested
that a restructured ASACE could exert a substantial impact on the
development of Senegalese manufactured exports, and recommended that ASACE
be privatized with a view to modernizing its structures, streamlining its
procedures and improving its credibility and autonomy. A further 14
man-months of specialized short-term consultancy would be required to
assist in the implementation of ASACE's restructuring program. The
Government has reviewed the consultant's recommendations and is preparing a
restructuring program for ASACE; agreement on its content will be a
condition of disbursement of this subcomponent.
4.21      Restructuring of CICES (US$450,000).  The Government has
undertaken under UNDP financing a diagnostic study of CICES which was
completed in draft form in June 1987, and is summarized in Annex 4.04.
This study recommended that CICES be restructured to: (a) reorient its
activities towards those of direct interest to exporters such as business
advisory services (export marketing and contracting assistance), specific
market studies and trade information; (b) discontinue marginal activities
which have hitherto absorbed a large share of its resources without sig-
nificant impact on export development, such as general country studies,
training and support to the Ministry of Trade; (c) enhance its interface
with private sector; (d).relocate CICES in Dakar, closer to its clientele;
(e) de-link CICES and SOFIDAK (currently merged) to ensure that the
organization of the international fair does not detract CICES from its main
activities. To help implement this restructuring program, the Project
would finance a program of about 36 man-months of external consultancy for
CICES' work program. Tne Government is currently reviewing the
consultant's recommendations and will prepare a restructuring program;
agreement on its content will be a condition of disbursement of this
subcomponent.
4.22      Assistance for administration of the apex line of credit and the
SSE lending program (US$660,000). Training programs to familiarize staff
of the Central Bank and participating banks with lending procedures and
appraisal techniques to be applied under this Project would include: (a)
an initial two-week seminar to be organized in January 1988 at the COFEB (a
Central Bank affiliated training institution) for the staff of prospective
participating banks and of the Central Bank (para 4.08); and (b) short
follow-up courses targeted on selected staff of the banks directly involved
in the preparation of subproject appraisals. The Project would also
finance external consultants to help formulate operating procedures for the
National Office for Vocational Training and the Delegation for Employment
(6 man-months) as well as an advisor to SOFISEDIT for the initial
implementation of the SSE lending program (18 man-months, paras 4.13-4.16).



- 26 -
F. Project Cost and Financing
4.23      The estimated project cost and financing are summarized in the
following table:
Project Cost and Financing
Local -/  Foreign      Total      %
Technical Assistance                 -----US$ million---------
IDA                                   0.6          2.4         3.0      91
Government                            0.3           -          0.3       9
Total                               0.9          2.4         3.3     100
Industrial Investments
(Line of credit)
IDA                                    -           25.0        25.0     80
Internal Financing/
Project Sponsors                     6.3            -          6.3     20
Total                               6.3          25.0        31.3    100
Retraining Program
IDA                                 2.0             -         2.0     87
Government                          0.3             -         0.3     13
Total                             2.3             -         2.3    100
SSE Lending Program
IDA                                 1.5            1.5        3.0     81
Government                          0.6             -         0.6     11
SSE Project Sponsors                0.3             -        0.3       8
Total                             2.4            1.5        3.9    100
Total Project Cost and Financing
IDA                                   4.1           28.9       33.0     81
Government                            1.2             -         1.2      3
Internal Financing/
Project Sponsors                     6.3             -         6.3     15
SSE Project Sponsors                  0.3             -         0.3      1
Total                            11.9           28.9      40.8    100
a/  Including US$4 million of taxes and duties.



- 27 -
4.24      Total project cost is estimated at US$40.8 million, of which
US$28.9 million (71%) are in foreign exchange. This cost includes
US$3.3 million of technical assistance (paras 4.17-4.22), US$6.2 million
for the program of assistance to displaced workers (US$2.3 million for
retraining and US$3.9 million for SSE lending), and US$31.3 million for
industrial investments. The latter amount includes the credit line of
US$25 million, to be supplemented by a 20% contribution towards project
cost by project sponsors and/or internally generated cash flow. IDA funds
would finance equipments, services, and permanent working capital. The
Government would contribute tS$1.2 million in local costs (local support
personnel, offices, telephone and supplies). A PPF of US$950,000 was
approved for financing of preparatory activities including: (a) studies on
the impact of reforms on the industrial sector; (b) restructuring study of
ASACE; and (c) studies to help finalize the design of the retraining
component.
G. Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements would be against: (a) 100% of techl.4cal assistance
expenditures for project management and institutional reinforcement
(consultants, equipments and vehicles) (US$3.0 million) 4/; (b) 100% of the
amount of approved subloans for industrial investments subject to a maximum
of 80% of the cost of subprojects (US$25 million); (c) 100% of the cost of
the retraining program for laid-off workers (US$2 million); and (d) 100% of
the amount of approved subloans under the SSE lending scheme for laid-off
employees subject to a maximum of 90% of total subproject cost
(US$3 million). Special Accounts (revolving funds) of a total amount of
US$1 million equivalent (about four months of expenditures), would be set
up in financial institutions acceptable to IDA to expedite disbursements.
These would include: (i) a special account of US$50,000 for the technical
assistance component; (ii) a special account of US$100,000 for the SSE
lending component; (iii) a special account of US$50,000 for the retraining
component; and (iv) a special account of US$800,000 for the line of credit.
These Special Accounts would be replenished by the Association from time to
time on the basis of disbursement requests supported by full documentation
for expenditures over US$20,000 equivalent. Expenditures below this amount
would be reimbursed on the basis of a Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
submitted monthly with supporting documentation retained by the Government
for review by IDA in the course of project supervision.
4.26      IDA funds would be disbursed over a period of 11 years.  Final
submission of subprojects under the line of credit would be December 31,
1997, and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1998. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 4.05 and summarized below. It is
in line with the regional disbursement profile for comparable IDA projects.
4/   Including a PPF amount of US$950,000 to be refinanced under the
credit.



- 28 -
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY             88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96         97     98
Annual        0.3   2.2   4.1   5.0   5.3   4.7   4.3   3.1   2.7    1.5    0.3
Cumulative    0.3   2.5   6.6  11.6  16.9  21.6  25.9  29.0  31.2   32.7   33.0
H. Procuremett Arrangements
4.27      Procurement arrangements are as follows:
(a) Industrial Investments and SSE Program. Procurement under the
apex line of credit would not be suitable for International
Competitive Bidding given that proceeds will primarily finance
restructuring investments involving partial replacement or
upgrading of existing equipment and spare parts by private sector
enterprises.  Nor, because of their very small-size.(para 4.15),
would investments under the SSE lending program. Procurement for
these components will be in accordance with normal commercial
practices, with international shopping through at least three
price quotations for imported items costing over US$50,000.
Participating banks (including SOFISEDIT for the SSE lending
program) will be required to maintain records of procurement and
to monitor the utilization of subloan funds through regular
supervision missions.
(b) Consulting Services. Consulting services to be financed under
the project would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and_by the
World Bank as Executing Agency.
(c) Equipment to be financed under the technical assistance component
would be procured by shopping after receipt of at least three
price quotations from qualified suppliers.
I. Project Implementation, Reporting and Auditing
4.28      The Government would be the implementing agency for this Project
through: (a) the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts, which would
supervise the overall execution of the Project and, in particular,
disbursements under the Technical Assistance component; (b) the National
Office of the Central Bank in Dakar which will be responsible for
administering the line of credit; (c) the Ministry of National Education,
overseeing the implementation of the retraining program for displaced
employees; and (d) the Delegation for Employment, responsible for
implementation of the SSE lending program. A quarterly report in an agreed
format would be prepared by the Ministry of Industry, including reports
prepared (for their respective areas of responsibilities) by the



- 29 -
other agencies. In addition, external auditors acceptable to IDA would
annually review Project accounts at the various implementing institutions
as well as the Special Accounts and the related SOEs. Reports on these
audits would be provided to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. The Central Bank will also provide the summary of financial reports
it routinely requires from banking institutions, and on an annual basis,
within six months of the end of each fiscal year, their financial
statements and audit reports.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The project would facilitate the adjustment of industries to the
new incentive system, the provision of financing under the line of credit
would sustain modernization efforts of existing enterprises, helping them
regain or maintain competitiveness on both domestic and export market as
well as foster the emergence of new poles of industrial growth better able
to positively contribute to the national economy. The reorganization of
the export promotion and insurance agencies would enable the development of
new markets abroad. The provision of technical assistance to the Ministry
of Industry would enhance its capacity, enabling it to effectively
implement the policy reforms. Finally, assistance to employees for
retraining and setting up of SSEs would alleviate the social cost of the
reforms, thus enhancing their sustainability.
5.02      A major risk is that the banking system may be reluctant to
increase its financial exposure to the industrial sector which is perceived
as more risky than traditional sectors of its involvement, which would slow
down disbursements of the line of credit. To minimize this risk, terms and
conditions under the line of credit (including lending spreads) have been
structured in such a way as to be attractive to the banks. Another risk is
that new investments in the industrial sector may be slow to materialize on
account of the initial uncertainty caused by the reformed incentive
framework and lower effective protection in the sector. It is indeed
expected thiat the line of credit will initially finance mostly the
restructuring and modernization of existing capacities. After the initial
adjustment, the revised incentive system should however provide a
sustainable basis for the development of new industrial investment
opportunities.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on:
(i)  the onlending arrangements for the line of credit, eligible
finar.cial intermediaries, eligibility criteria for investments,
subloan processing procedures, and terms and conditions (paras
4.04-4.08);



- 30 -
(ii)  the retraining scheme for laid-off employees (para 4.12); and
(iii) terms and conditions, eligibility criteria, and procedures for
administering the SSE lending scheme for laid-off workers (para
4.16).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the signing of a protocol between the Government and the Central
Bank specifying arrangements for administering the line of credit
(para 4.04);
(ii)  the issuance by the Central Bank of a circular to the banking
system, outlining the main features of the line of credit,
including terms and conditions, eligibility criteria and
administration procedures (para 4.09); and
(iii) the signing of subsidiary relending agreements, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, between the Central Bank and at
least two participating banks (para 4.05).
6.03      For each participating bank, a condition of disbursement of the
line of credit is the signing of a subsidiary relending agreement with the
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05).
6.04      A condition of disbursement for the SSE lending program is the
signing of a subsidiary agreement between the Government and SOFISEDIT
specifying terms and conditions, eligibility criteria, and procedures for
administering the program (para 4.16).
6.05      A condition of disbursement for the programs of technical
assistance for ASACE and CICES is IDA's approval of their respective
restructuring programs (paras 4.20-4.21).
6.06      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$33 million equivalent to the Republic of
Senegal.
Attachments
AF5IE
November 25, 1987



SENIWAL
Export of Goods, 1980 - 1985
(CFAF mi11m1)
1980               1981               1982            1983              1984             1985
ValueVlu                          -        26    n"    VaIn.  g      61P           Value     I
Value            Va 2eValue                    z         -i      %       Valmb          Al
Raw Mbterials               23,759  23.6      25,127   18.5       29,380    16.3    37,182    18.0   46,312 19.7   41,065*  18.4
Of which:
Groundnuts                   465   0.5         884    0.7          653    t).4     4,103     2.0    4,236  1.8        58*   0.03
Calciun Phsphates         16,185  16.1       17,712   13.0      18,112    10.1    18,415     8.9   25,450 10.9   22,323*  10.0
Gim-ed Cotton              2,168   2.2        1,991    1.5       4,770     2.6     8,146     3.9    6,911  3.0    8,682    3.9
Food Products               43,056  42.7      42,772   31.5      79,267    44.0    98,510    47.6  101,882 43.5   82,584   37.,
of uidch:
Fish                       7,466   7.4      10,514    7.7       11,018     6.1    12,488     6.0   16,826  7.2   18,858    8.5
Canned fish                7,310    7.3      10,642    7.8      11,694     6.5    16,284     7.9   21,215  9.1   19,674    8.8
Shellfish                  6,437    6.4      6,828    5.0        7,457     4.1     8,637     4.2   11,433  4.9   13,152    5.9
Groundnat cake             4,197    4.2       1,899    1.4      10,100     5.6    13,605     6.6    6,712  2.9    4,374*   2.0
Grouninut oil             12,909  12.8        6,362    4.7      31,391    17.4    37,425    18.1   35,907 15.3   17,629*   7.9
Consumer Goods               4,622    4.6     14,447   10.6       12,774     7.1    15,082     7.3   15,571  6.7   19,579    8.8
Of which:
Cotton threads and cloths    771    0.8      6,082    4.5        6,337     3.5     5,558     2.7    7,284  3.1    8,722    3.9
Sandals and shoes            902    0.9       1,17S    0.9       1,365     0.8     1,127     0.5    1,475  0.6    1,516    0.7
Petroleum Products          18,926  18.8      38,328   28.2       45,825    25.5    40,760    19.7    43,188 18.5   44-423*  19.9
ChQmical Products            7,402    7.3       9,071    6.7       5,098     2.8     7,518     3.6    21,012 9.0   28,852   12.9
Of which.
Fertilizers                5,9'3    5.9       5,918    4.4       2,263     1.3     4,102     2.0     6,673 2.9    8,942    4.0
Machinerv and
ltansportation Equipment    3,002   3.0        6,131   4.5        7,693     4.3     7,924     3.8      6,010 2.6    6,392    2.9
*LurAL                      101,767 100.0      135,876  100.0    180,037   100.0   206,976   10D.0   233,975 100.0 222,895* 100.0
-                           -          - _   r  =r     ..           v_m _We  
Of 1-dch: Industry          74,787  74.2       108,560   79.9    147,193    81.8   166,450    80.4  -182,822 78.1 173,858*  78.0
* Estimates and Bank staff analysis
Source: Statistlcal Office
AFSIE
July 1987



- 32 -
AM@ 2.0M
NAL ~SE=R R
S nuj s~
State Investmits In thetI,fctr~  sector
e-tw
-                               Qwre~~apit (aioetmt             PvtzatlI)I
sector         (CFAF !aAF!2          (CE                  m_L
SAFOF                 Flh pro assg              42                   9             21.4                -
SO1E                  Textile                2,750               1,137.4           41.4                -
SISAC                 Textle                   160                  81             50.6                -
Berliet SEgl           hiuk assbly             210                  20              9.5                -
SAPAL                       Cal W.              14                   1              7.1                -
Sal   Sine Sem        Salt p                   732                 356             48.6              25.0
Dakar Mwne            Sid repa r             1,255               1,145.9           91.3              50.0
Rlqhates de  Ihba   Twophtes                12,000               6,000             50.0              50.0
Rwplates de TheS   Eluhat                      500                 250             50.0              50.0
SEB                   AgW&iwtry              1,484               1,053             71.0              71.0
SaVOS                 A$m-i&wtry            4,882               3,173             65.0              65.0
Ice                   Fertilizes            25,232              5672              22.5              22.5
AF5IE
August 1987



- 33 -
M   2.03
INtSIILSE                Pro
Selected IrhustrlIal ndee of Productlm  1979-f6
(1976  100)
facturing         2         1979      1980     1981      1982    1983    1984       1985     1986
Food, Beverages, Tobacco   43.1    118.8    85.8      89.2     109.4   109.7   100.5    103.2    88.4
Oil ftooessing           12.2     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     69.2    76.7    48.0    35.3    26.8
Oth-Fabods, etc.        30.9      n.a.      na.       n.a.     125.2   122.7    122.9    130.0   112.7
Textl, Clothlz, leather 12.3    95.0      94.3     114.4    147.3   139.9   120.1    133.9    78.7
wd Industries            0.5    141.5    138.3    138.4    144.2   132.3   125.4   119.0   100.6
Paer, Carboard           1.8    118.0    118.6    133.1    131.7   137.5   139.4    120.1    176.5
cal Industries          11.4    105.1       91.2    104.8      79.4    73.1    72.1    77.9        75.3
c~tlanb terials    3.3      95.3     93.4      92.8      92.2   128.6   116.2    94.1    91.7
lbdr1nexy and  1qupun    4.0      98.6      70.6      55.4     77.4    93.6    97.8    78.1        78.9
Mining                   18.5    101.7      89.8    107.4      67.8    84.3    107.9   114.5   116.7
ELectricity, Water       5.1    131.0    129.7    134.6    141.3   148.7    153.2   155.0   166.3
Total Industry          100.0     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      103.3   107.1    105.0   107.6    96.3
Total Widthot Oil
rocessing              87.8      n.a.      na.      n.a.      108.0   111.4   112.9    117.6   106.0
AF5IE
July 1987



SENM
IlIEIRIL SE   RPR EW
Selected Indicators of Miufacturng Activity in Sengl (1985)
(In bilhilms of CFAF)
Valu             laabor
Aded/  Profit/ Cost/
Nmber                               Value   Net          No. of             Labor  Sales   Assets  Value
of finrs   Sales     iwesbunts       Added  Profits       Workes   Assets  Cost    ()           (Z)   AddI
Agro-industries                  115       205.2        17.4         58.3       -2.9      14,842    61.3   30.0    28.4    -4.7    51.5
Textiles ard leather              23        48.1         2.3         18.2      -0.4        4,976    43.6    8.5    37.8    -0.9    46.6
Wood, paper and cardboard         33        13.9         0.6          5.0        0.3        1,330    10.0    2.3    36.0       3.0    46.0
aCemdcals                         50       201.9         1.8         55.5       -5.3       3,659   159.2    8.2    27.5    -3.3    14.7
Construction matertals             4        16.8         0.2          8.4       0.2          492    23.4    1.7    50.0        0.9    20.6
1kchanical and metal inristries   44        44.2         0.7         14.4       -1.0       3,302    40.1    7.4    32.6    -2.5    51.2
Total                         269       530.1        23.0        159.8       -9.1      28,601   337.6   58.1          30.1    -2.7    36.4
Note: The above data cover rougly 96% of total iniustrial value added
Strvirce: Ministry of Finance, Statistical Office.
AF51E
Juie 1987
IC
o.



- 35 -
ANNX 2.05
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Structure of Customs Tariff and Duties on Imports
Prior to SAL II Reforms (%)
Weighted    Unweighted
Sector                   Minimum      Average        Average      Maximum
Agriculture                      0           18.2         45.5           90
Mining                           0           54.4         30.6           90
Manufacturing                    0           47.5         45.3           90
Overall Average                           43.8          44.8
Consumer goods                   0          51.0          54.9           90
Intermediate goods               0          48.2          40.0           90
Capital goods                   25          41.2          41.6           90
Overall Average                           47.3          45.3
Food, Beverage and Tobacco       0          57.5          63.5           90
Textiles                         0          60.3          53.4           90
Wood and Wood Products          55           65.9         58.8           90
Paper and Printing               0          41.0          30.1           65
Chemicals, Petr., Coal           0          36.2          30.6           90
Non-Metallic Minerals            0           53.1         47.1           90
Basic Metal Industry            25          51.0          46.7           65
Machinery Metal                  0           44.1         44.6           90
Other Manufacturing             25          53.6          56.9           90
Overall Average                           47.3          46.0
Source: Bank analysis and Ministry of Finance data.
AF5IE
July 1987



g~ ~ Ihf   4 i1 t      |             -li                       [| 'I"    i
t~~~~~E                                i                                 .1 .    .1 . .S
e            _                                                                                 *; W.d-   



- 37 -                 ANNEX 2.07
Page 1 ot 5
ei1 "l 0| r }i!1 r ..i
'3liii                         Ii? tiii
I~~~~~
h.,i 41                             3
e1      a             .a!.j
I     a            X               I  
.l                  , I



4L  ~SER =    WE
MhUSTRIAL SB=  RF1FD           D
Iniustrial Polica Refom  Uler SAL II and III
Action Urdertakean           Actrim UIkertaken           O.wzeit Status
Weform        O bjective of the Refom              as part of SAL II            as part of SAL Im            and Next Stp      /
2. 5Tort Pmrrotion
lnstrum«nts
- Export Subsidy           - Rati ize the export           - Now iw aid deree                                        - Rew  of the syste 
absidy  ystem                  revisirs export sibsidy                                   (OCtoi-er 1987)
syte t base It cn
lIdustrial val added
rather than FbB value
(Agust 1986)
- Draack                   - StreamlIne drawbwk            - New decree revising drback                             - Review of the systen
procedures                     procedures (April 1986)                                   (October 1987)
- QWal 1ty Control        - Improve maeAxet penetration                                - Stratgm                    - Gwcmmnt hbas
izatian and         orgwdzed round tables        C
quality ca l progrma        In Aprll - Jum  1987 ad 
wil prepar an Actio
PI= by Oc=ber 1987
- E..xJrt Regulation       - Sizplify export procedure:      Streautiz  procedures for   - TIIpema                     Gerent wil
grntirg   texpoet            from Sam  cazinttees to    orgnize rouzd tables
cards                        amplify export              Jn.e - Septaier 1987
fo rultie  (Jly 1987)       and wl prepare an
Actim Pla  to streamline
- Streale  stam               export procedures
proodus                      Nobvaier 1987)
- D:pott Prtio                PraDte eXGrts                                             - Undrtake a diagwtic          Govemunt will prepar e 
Uvititutions                                                                            st* of         (eMFar        an Actlm  PI= for          0 M
limiraxa opaiw) aid of    CISS and  SACE for              x
c      (Supm             reou by Ocoer
for }CalMI Trade,)          1987
m_ td 
thm dApmi b



izutl Pblicy Refoms u  er a l. n  wA m
Action Uhndertdakm           Actim borne                  Omurat ftatus
Ref rm(1tive of di Reform                         as part of SAL It            as uret of SAL M             EA Yam St8 
3. lnvestmin Code
I3cnef its
- Cnvwentions              - Eliinate a&hc               - Rexum* the prirplpes of   - FolUi up an                 -Acti  PI= to be
arracamts betwH               ccwentimis                    II latlan  fro             prepared by Octobw
wterpdas and the State                                      studie with a view to       1987
- Decisica to initiate a        wmralUze te c
study cm edstin              reglr
1986)
- Rk.vision of the         - Inmrove idtrWa              - Delees referecs to         - Reform of the Invesut   -  Final text prepard
Invcstummt Code           incatives                      "coavuitioxs" in the         Code to:                   by May 1987, and
Investmnat Code (Decerber   - (1) eltminate current     the Now    waS voted
1986)                       prlWsio  which irA          in July 1987
capital fta3ity
- (i) introduce a system
of declinin  advatages
ovw eligibility period
and
- (iiV clide lea ad
autmmtkc eligibility
criteri
- Procdures for granting   - Szplify procedue for                                     - Streana procedures to   - Nw procawes
InvestiLnt Code Benfits    granting Investment Code                                   grant 1Ivesat Code          cincldi     oo z
benefits                                                   bemfits andset up a ce      settisgup of a cdl      °
withfi the fistry of       at the N,dstry of          
Fina   to proWs                     wa                 o
reqt                       pIn July 1987    ui



_ 40 -             ANNEX 2.07
Page 4 of 5
a |          j3 X                 3llip.
e I  j    fl f    j II 1111   31     X~ 2f 5
U1 |\    lS  tatc
MUt                ltiIIu
aIii  H. W 8  as
e111'! 4}                  SiC
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~       I 3                 IIQ3
vs   ,   ,           Uh ~ ~~~~~~ ,-'



n~ismAL S~ mD ; PB
In&uftzlal olicy RafoDi Uhler SALs 11 and m
Atim  Usxertakak             Mctim kUlertaken             ozrrant Stats
lteform             Objective of the Reform         as part of SAL 1I            as part of SAL III           and Next Steps
6. lIabor Reformi
- labor Code                - Poster labor zability         - Procedus started to        -               of zwised    La wre prested
redue the role of the        labor lam an taiorary        to the National
Sevice de la Men-            cmracts, biric( and StD    Assebly Jur 1987
dt'Caivet  (SW) , allow      role
terprinses to bire
witbout State
nfece, an r
taoaycourAxata
Action U.dertaken            Action, Ukxertake           Qwrert Status
Reform             Objective of the Reform         as part of SAL II            as part of SAL III      an    d Next Steps
- Labor Tncentives         - Improve producivity          - Studies on likages          - CApleti  of stdies         - Sties started
between remzmeratim~ aid     uaxIdrw.y anrd               (Ovwber 1986) to
productivity                  eln;tiof                    pde
- Finartlng of ocial  i1drk%  biy October 1987
&carges and orker's
partiipation in                                         - Dlscussio of studies
enterprise capital and                                    andt
profit sharlng                                            Novaiber 1987 - Jun
1988
- Sociall Fund             - Alleviate social *nVact of                                 - set-p Social Fund          - Design of operating
adjustment, ies    social                                                                 prodes for Scil            o z
Fund for dispLad                                                                          Fnd                          x
erflayees                                                                                                              l>
AFSIE
Septa3dLer 1987



- 42 -
ANNEX 2.08
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Structure of Customs Tariff and Duties on Imports after the 1986 reform (Z)
Weighted     Unweighted
Sector                    Minimum      Average         Average       maximum
Agriculture                    0            25.3          37.4            80
Mining                         0            44.1          28.6            45
Manufacturing                  0            36.2          35.7            80
Overall Average                          35.5           35.6
Consumer Goods                 0            39.4          47.0            80
Intermediate Goods             0            37.3          28.3            80
Capital Goods                  0            32.7          32.7            80
Overall Average                           36.2          35.7
Food, Beverage and Tobacco    0             37.3          47.7            80
Textiles  -                    0            48.2          45.8            80
Wood and Wood Products        25            49.1          45.1            80.
Paper and Printing             0            33.5          24.7            50
Chemicals, Petr., Coal         0            34.2          25.2            80
Non-Metallic Minerals          0            43.4          37.5            50
Basic Metal Industry           0            41.5          39.8            50
Machinery Metal                0            33.3          33.4            80
Other Manufacturing            0            40.5          50.2            80
Overall Average                           36.2          35.7
Source: Bank staff analysis, and data of Ministry of Finance.
AF5IE
September 1987



- 43 -                               ANNEX  2.09
SENmAw
&msm  SEm "RTIc                   PR=
Provsios of the New ntment Code
11. nr  Iwestmt Code is             d by: (1) u t             EKLibiLlty crteria ha  bow
solifiuuad the                 of the bmf t  it has b     less cuoberso!; (ii) DRmmnvIy of buuits
In g;    and (Mli)    -:0210nt of mler enterprises. lbe nw Code offers ucre a1vaatare to 1W  I
qand has eL4uited provsi1  4dch provided eXcessive protection for largemcnmyi.
E34idbllity                     Benfits                    Tim
1. Genral           All e pries oprating          i. Eictin fum dties nl   a. Duration for
In a certaln mabsetor.          capital eqipmnt duhinga
first 2 years.                   y acc
Ui. E   tkion fram sal  tac       to regIon (5 -
on locally prhased             12 yes).
Inuts.                     b. Avwntsps are
degressve
dung last 3
years of
period 75%,
5(X an 25%.
2. SMA                Investt of CFAF 5 -         i.  1 3aptin fram au tes          Sam as Regim 1.
2) uAllim n d creation of     related to cmpay
3 pe_wAt jobs for             estaIb
SGuga]*ee .                ii.  Cu     k fraM 1M-Wing
taxes if neprise is
set Up CUtside Dakar.
iii. Ewc5tip   frau udnim
flat rate tax.
iv. nEbution frm social
hes an saares pald
to Seneple.
3. Use of TLoal       35% of interediate inuts   i. Fxptica frno azilam             S;e as Regim  1.
Resource          o Sw l  orig.                  fL  rate ta.
ii. EacIptia frmm license
taxes for canies
autside Dakar.
4. Techlogical            t a mina percentae  i. Mbaption fran social               Year of lzwesbzt
IRvvatin          of tumover In research and     charges on salaries
developutz In a Senegalese    paid to Senegalese
research institute or         during the year of
presen an invetuent            Invesment.
progran to exploit results  iU. Sam as for aIEs
of S gaese research.           (egln 2)                      Sam as Reglm 1.
5. Regicnal           Location outside Dakar.     i. Excflption fram social         Sae as Regie 1.
developat                                        charges on salaries
paid to the Senegalee.
AF5IE
Aiuet 1987



SENEGAL
Industrial Sector Restructuring Project
Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts (MDIA)
Organization Chart
MIINSTRY OF
HANDICRAFTS         CABIENT
(MDA)
DIM OF PLANNING          DIV OF TECH.                DIM OF                        4
LEGISLATION, AND        AND INDUSTRIAL             INDUSTRIAL
PROMOTION               PROPERTY                PRODUCTION
PLANNNG &               INDUSTRIAL                 AGRO-
_  LEGISLATION I             PROPERTY                 DUSTRIES
BUREAU                  BUREAU                   BUREAU
INIUSTRIAL                                     TEXTLE~ WOOD
PROMOTION                TECHNOLOGY               AND PAPER
BUREAU                  BUREAU                   BUREAU
INDUSTRIAL                                      MECHANICAL
INFORMATION                                  _      USTRIES
BUREAU   JBUREAU
CHEMICAL
INDUSTRIES
BUREAU
cak/W3 1222-5



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.11
Page 1 of 6
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Restructuring of the Manufacturing Sector Under the New Incentive System
1.        In 1986, the Senegalese Government commissioned foreign
consultants (BCG) 1/ to undertake a study to assess the impact of ongoing
industrial reforms on existing Senegalese enterprises. The objectives of
the study were to determine: (i) the impact on industrial employment of
the adjustment policies; (ii) restructuring investments required in the
various sectors; and (iii) potential areas of growth under the new
incentive system. This study, completed in January 1987, indicates that
between 3,490 and 4,960 jobs are expected to disappear as a result of
closure of unviable activities or of efforts by enterprises to increase
their competitiveness on domestic and export markets through cost reduction
programs. At the same time, financial needs of the enterprises for
rationalization and modernization, investmerts, and incremental working
capital are estimated between CFAF 10.5 and 15.5 billion (US$33 -
49 million). Finally, the consultants identified subsectors with potential
for growth and export development (of about CFAF 30 billion each year,
i.e., US$96 million). The table below summarizes the findings of the
study, and each subsector is reviewed in greater detail in the following
paragraphs.
I/ Ministry of Industrial Development and Handicrafts/Boston Consulting
Group, Impact de la rfiforme de la politique industrielle, Dakar,
January, 19d7.



DAsnRIL SE.RFMfD PM=
stiimted tpet of the Thstrial Refonr Pmgraa
BiMlayment Iwpact                             Estfrated Pinancin                           FAtlmted
(No. of Jkbs Lost)                  B                   (CFAF i11lion)                    Ecor Potential
Capital            Total
Prodictivity    lkviable                                    Peqiret             Fin g             (CFAF         Increase
Gairs       Activities       Total        Investents    (CFAF mllion)                         millo)             X
Agro-ir4ustries       1,740-2,870       190-240    1,930-3,110    3,150-5,350        650-2,100       3,800-7,450        18,900           2;
Textiles and leather    700-S00          80         780-880       3,350-5,550        670             4,02-5,720         3,150           26
Paper ard cardboard      50              80-110     130-160          50                 -               50                 -              0
Chanical                170-240         120-170     290-410         250              100               350               1,550           35
Construction materials   20              40          60             110-120        1,00D             1,110-1,120      5,000-10,00D
W-chanical and
metal industries       80-90          230-250      310-340        180              700               880                 5.5           38
¶1tnA.                2,760-4,070      740-890    3,500-4,960    7,090-11,500    3,120-4,570        10,210-15,570   29,175-34,175       31-38
** Currently no expbrts
1/ Excluding SAR and ICS
Soxrce: Boston Consulting Group.
AF5IE
Agust 1987



- 47 -
ANNEX 2.11
Page 3 of 6
A. Agro-industries
2.        The impact of adjustment policies would be most significant in
the agro-industrial sector, both in terms of employment (1,930-3,110 jobs
are expected to disappear, i.e., 12-19% of sector employment) and financial
needs (estimated at between CFAF 3.8 and 7.5 billion). These restructuring
needs are highest in the fish processing and sugar industries.
3.         The fish-processing industry will require major restructuring to
arrest or reverse its decline. Restructuring of the fish processing
industry is expected to result in a total loss of 1,000-1,500 jobs, and to
require investments of about CFAF 1.5-3 billion. The tuna industry is
currently less competitive than East Asian competitors and its market
prospects will depend on continued preferential access to European markets
and rationalization investments to lower production costs.   The maritime
deep-freezing industry is expected to develop at the expense of on-land
processing factories, which will further accentuate the current
overcapacity in the latter. The on-land industry should adjust to this
situation through concentration of existing facilities, modernization
investments and diversification into higher-value species (e.g., shellfish)
4.        Sugar industry.  The restructuring of the sugar industry (CSS)
has been undertaken with French assistance (CCCE). Under this
restructuring program, the CSS has agreed to: (i) improve operation of the
sugar refinery; (ii) reduce its overhead costs; (iii) cut the number of
employees by about 15%; (iv) restructure its financial situation; and (v)
undertake rationalization investments of about CFAF 1-2 billion. These
actions are expected to result in decreasing the cost of refined sugar from
CFAF 345/kg in 1986 to CFAF 250/kg in 1992. In addition, under SAL III the
Government has agreed to undertake financial and operational audits of the
CSS which will yield recommendations for further rationalization of the
operations of this enterprise; agreement on an action plan for
implementation of these recommendations will be a condition of release of
the second tranche of SAL III. The decrease in the price of sugar is
expected to substantially improve the performance and growth of downstream
industries, including sweets, soft drinks, and biscuits.
5.        The oils and fats subsector will have to adjust to the stagnating
demand and falling world prices. Measures to restructure this State-
dominated subsector should include: (i) the reduction of State ownership
in SONACOS/SEIB; (ii) the rationalization of existing processing facilities
to increase capacity utilization (currently less than 30%); and (iii)
diversification into new products. Restructuring investments (for physical
facilities) are estimated at CFAF 1.5 billion, in addition to financial
restructuring needs of about CFAF 5 billion.
6.        The local tobacco industry is basically healthy and should be
able to maintain its market share, provided that it is adequately protected
(e.g., through reference prices) against dumping practices by major
international producers of light tobacco products.



- 48 -                       ANNEX 2.11
Page 4 of 6
7.        Both the potassium chloride and the vinegar producing industries
are structurally weak with an unfavorable cost structure and are expected
to be unable to face, competition from imports. At best, the vinegar
industry could compete with imports of diluted (6X) vinegar, resulting in
losses of employment of 15 jobs in this activity.
8.        The domestic salt producer (SSS) is facing the increased
competition of imports from Europe, and of artisanal production from Lake
'Retba. In the short run, this competition is expected to lead to a
decrease in production levels by about 30X. Restoration of the
competitiveness of this activity would require: (a) rationalization of
transport costs; (b) investments of about CFAF 300 million every two to
three years; and (c) layoffs of 20 to 50 permanent and 50 to 100 seasonal
employees.
9.        The flour mills are considered viable against international
competition if adequately protected against EEC subsidized exports (through
an appropriate level of reference prices). Similarly, a rationalization of
reference prices ir. the concentrated milk subsector will be required to
allow this intrinsically competitive sector to remain viable.
10.       In the beverage industry, local production of mineral water is
naturally protected by the transport cost advantage, but suffers from an
unfavorable brand image and of a higher cost structure than its European
competitors due to the small scale of its production. To compete with
imports, the local enterprise will have to improve its brand image and
reduce costs by streamlining its labor force (by about 20 employees). Some
of the redundant employees could be converted to soft drink production,
which is deemed to have a higher growth potential. Restructuring
investments of CFAF 150 million in this activity would be needed.
11.       The domestic cost structure-in the tomato paste production is
higher than that of imports (partly as a result of the high cost of the
cans), and EEC subsidies further compound this situation. However, in the
medium to long run, the industry has a potential to become competitive.
This would inter alia require: (a) the concentration of production
facilities; (b) a reduction in energy and transportation costs through
rationalization of processes; (c) more effective technologies for the
production of cans; (d) the development of subsidiary activities for the
permanent work force for periods between harvests; and (e) a mechanism to
offset the effect of EEC subsidies (e.g., through reference prices).
Required investments in the activity are estimated at CFAF 100-200 million.
B. Chemical Industries
12.       The chemical subsector is dominated by SAR (petroleum refining)
and the ICS (fertilizer production) whose problems are mostly related to
the evolution of international markets. SAR's activity will continue to
closely reflect the differential between the average price of refined
products and the cost of crude oil which currently does not justify local
refining. As for ICS, IFC is currentlv helping ICS design a restructuring



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.11
Page 5 of 6
program of about US$103 million to be cofinanced with DEG, EIB, CCCE,
BADEA, and the KLiwaiti Fund to improve ICS's financial structure and
prospects for continued operation in a currently adverse environment.
13.       The rest of the chemical sector is expected to undergo important
structural shifts resulting in displacements of 290-410 employees and
requiring investments of about CFAF 250 million. Exports in this sector
are expected to grow by about CFAF 450 million. A number of product lines
are likely to disappear due to outdated, uncompetitive processes.  The
production of batteries is not competitive on account of obsolete
technology. Only electric batteries (43% of current production is
exported) have growth potential on export markets (exports are expected to
increase from CFAF 1.5 to 2 billion). The future of oils and lubricants is
not promising. Producers of detergents will have to streamline production
and subcontract some processes locally to remain viable.
14.       The plastics subsector will face pressure from competing imports
from Europe but can remain competitive if adequate restructuring measures
are taken including: (a) a concemuration of productive activities; and (b)
a reduction of the labor force by about 120 employees. The production of
soaps by small local producers is very competitive. Pharmaceutical and
cosmetic industries are highly competitive. These industries have a
considerable export potential in the region (for example, pharmaceutical
exports are estimated to increase from CFAF 524 million to CFAF 1.5 billion
a year). Matches and paints are expected to successfully undergo
rationalization and regain competitiveness against imports.
C. Textile and Leather Industries
15.       The impact of the new industrial framework on the textile sector
will vary among the various stages of production resulting in overall job
losses of 480-580, and requiring total investments of about CFAF 4-5.7
billion.  This sector has substantial export potential towards CEAO
countries. The spinning, finishing, and printing subsectors would remain
competitive on the local market and export performance would depend on the
continued favorable access to European markets. Spinning will require
rationalization investments of about CFAF 2 billion. Weaving activities
will require substantial restructuring investments to keep its share of the
local market and develop exports to CEAO countries against the competition
of lower-cost Asian producers. Restructuring of the weaving industry will
also require raising outdated production standards and an effort to improve
labor productivity. Within this activity, prospects are most favorable for
dyed weaving wlhich can respond quickly to changing market conditions.
16.        The leather subsector is dominated by one major shoe factory
(Bata), whose market is being challenged by smaller domestic producers (for
plastic shoes) and by smuggled imports from East Asian countries. Low
capacity utilization renders leather and tennis product lines unviable; on
the other hand, thongs and sandals are expected to remain competitive. The
shoe industry will have to restructure its activities by substantially
streamlining fixed costs and developinig operations more adapted to small,



- 50 -
ANNEX 2.11
Page 6 of 6
rapidly changing lines of production. An estimated 200 people will become
redundant. In tannings, the use of a more advanced technology could
increase productivity by as much as 20%. This could'be provided by a
private partner and would enable this activity to remain competitive.
D.   Paper and Cardboard Industries
17.       In the paper and cardboard sector, product lines likely to
withstand the increased competition under the reformed incentive system are
those least sensitive to economies of scale or which benefit from transport
cost advantages (e.g. packaging). Articles such as hygienic paper, paper
handkerchief, and some cardboard products (e.g. bags) are not likely to
survive. Restructuring investment needs are about CFAF 50 million (mainly
in packaging), and personnel reduction'of 260 (mostly in paper products)
are expected in efforts to streamline costs.
E. Construction Materials
18.       This sector has substantial growth potential through development
of regional exports. The high cost of production incurred by the cement
company (SOCOCIM) results from the high cost of energy and the low capacity
utilization (38% in 1986). SOCOCIM has the potential for being competitive
against imports at a higher level of capacity utilization, which could be
achieved through development of exports to Mali and C8te d'lvoire (about
CPAF 5-10 billion). A reduction in the price on the local market would
then be possible, which would further increase SOCOCDI's local sales.
Lower cement prices would also improve the outlook of downstream
industries. Implementation of this strategy would require CFAF 1 billion
of incremental working capital. To remain viable, the asbestos industry
would need to: (a) reduce its overhead costs and labor force (by about
30 jobs); and (b) apply more advanced production methods requiring
investments of about CFAF 100 million.
F. Mechanical and Metal Industries
19.       Impact of the new policies will vary greatly among the various
industries in this sector. Activities most sensitive to economies of
scale and which do not have a transport cost advantage are likely to be
unable to face competition with imports (vehicle and bicycle assembly,
wire-drawing, galvanization) resulting in about 230-250 job losses. Some
other activities (e.g., enamel goods) could remain competitive provided
they adjust their work force (by 80-90 employees) and undergo modernization
investments (about CFAF 180 million). Industries whose products are well
adapted to the local or regional market and are less sensitive to economies
of scale are expected to remain viable and to develop their export
potential. For example, exports of agricultural implements could develop
from about CFAF 500 million to CFAF one billion, mostly in the CEAO region.
AF51E
August 1987



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Central Bank Refinancing Criteria
1.        In order to be eligible for Central Bank refinancing, all:
intermediary banks and beneficiary enterprises are required to demonstrate
that they have a good management, satisfactory financial, cash flow and
liquidity positions as well as sound prospects for future profitability.
These are assessed by the Central Bank primarily on the basis of the
following principal requirements, although subjective factors also play a
part in Central Bank's evaluation of each individual beneficiary.
2.        Principal Requirements Applicable to Banks
(a)  Minimum share capital ............ At least CFAF 100 million
(b)  Net worth          .......          At least 6% of total loan
commitments
(c)  Short-term assets  .....*......... At least 75% of sight and
short-term liabilities
(d)  Cash holdings .................... At least 3% of total liquid
and short-term assets
(e) Maximum Central Bank refinancing . 35% of total commitments
(f) Exposure limits:
(1)  Individual equity participations limited to 15% of a bank's
effective net worth, or 25% of the share capital of
beneficiary enterprises;
(2)  Aggregate equity participations plus net fixed assets of a
bank limited to 100% of its net worth;
(3)  Total credits to a single or to a group of closely related
beneficiaries limited to 100% of the bank's net worth;
(4)  Total credit to the staff of a bank limited to 20% of its
effective net worth.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 2 of 2
3.        Principal Requirements Applicable to Enterprises
(g)  Debt/Equity ..................... Determined on a case by case
basis taking into account the
type of activity and the
profitability but generally
expected not to exceed 3:1 for
most enterprises.
(h)  Net Worth ....................... At least 5% of annual turnover.
(i)  Cash-flow ...................... At least 5% of annual turnover.
(j)  Net Working Capital ............. At least 10% of gross working
capital for activities with a
long cycle (i.e. seasonal
sales) or at least 5% for
activities with a short cycle.
4.        Enterprises not fully meeting the above requirements, classified
as second category enterprises, may also be eligible for Central Bank
refinanced loans provided, however, that (i) both their net worth and net
working capital positions are positive and that (ii) prospects for their
profitability to improve are good.
5.        Compliance with the above requirements is monitored by the
Central Bank on an annual basis. To that end, the Central Bank requires
that all year-end financial statements of beneficiary enterprises be
submitted to it by the intermtediary banks.
AF5IE
April 1987



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.02
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Evolution of UMOA Lending Rates (%)
(1975 - 1986)
July 1  Apr 14   Apr 7   Apr 5   Mar 24   Sep 22
1975     1980     1982      1983    1985      1986
Base Lending Rates
Preferential Discount
Rate (TEP)                   5.5      8.0      10.0      8.0       7.0      6.0
Normal Discount Rate (TEN)    8.0       10.5     12.5      10.5      9.5      8.5
Bank Lending Rates
Seasonal Crop Storage,
Marketing and Export
minimum                   6.5      9.0      11.0      9.0       8.0      7.0
maximum                   7.5     10.0      12.0     10.0       9.0      8.0
National SHE a/, Social
Housing b/
minimum                   6.5      9.0      11.0      9.0       8.0      7.0
Maximum                   8.5-   11.0       13.0     11.0      10.0      9.0
All Other Loans
minimum                   8.0     10.5      12.5     10.5       9.5      8.5
maximum                  13.0     15.5      17.5     15.5      14.5     13.5
Non-Bank Lending Rates
Maximum Lending Rate          21.67    25.83    29.17    25.83    24.17   22.5
a/  Up to April 1979, firms with total loans outstanding not in
excess of CFAF 20 million; raised to CFAF 30 million from
May 1, 1979.
b/  Up to April 1979, loans of up to CFAF 10 million to finance
housing construction for first-time owners; raised to
CFAF 15 million from May 1, 1979.
AFSIE
July 1987



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.03
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Evolution of UMOA Deposit Rates (X)
(1975 - 1986)
July 1   Apr 14   Apr 7    Apr 5   Mar 24   Sep 22
1975     1980      1982      1983    1985      1986
Sight Deposits
Up to CFAF 200,000          -         -         -        -         -
CFAF 200,001-500,000        2.50      3.50      4.50     3.50    (a)        (a)
CFAF 500,001-2,000,000      3.00      4.00      5.00     4.00    (a)        (a)
Above CFAF 2,000,000         3.00     4.00      5.00      4.00    (a)       (a)
Term Deposits
Less than 6 months
Up to CFAF 200,000          3.25      5.25      7.25     6.25      5.25    4.25
CFAF 200,001-500,000        3.75      5.75      7.75     6.75      5.75    4.75
CFAF 500,001-2,000,000      4.25      6.25      8.25     7.25      6.25    5.25
Above CFAF 2,000,000        4.25      6.25      8.25      7.25     6.75    5.75
6 months to 1 year
Up to CFAF 200,000          4.25      6.25      8.25     7.25    6.25       5.25
CFAF 200,001-500,000        4.75      6.75      8.75     7.75    6.75      5.75
CFAF 500,001-2,000,000      5.50      7.50      9.50     8.50    7.50       6.50
Above CFAF 2,000,000        5.50      7.50      9.50     8.50    8.00       7.00
1 year or longer
Up to CFAF 200,000           5.25     7.25      9.25     8.25    7.25       6.25
CFAF 200,001-500,000        6.00      8.00    10.00      9.00    8.00       7.00
CFAF 500,001-2,000,000      6.50      8.50    10.50      9.50    8.50       7.50
Above CFAF 2,000,000        6.50      8.50    10.50      9.50    9.00       8.00



- 55 -
ANNEX 3.03
Page 2 of 2
July 1  Apr 14  Apr 7   Apr 5  Mar 24   Sep 22
1975     1980     1982      1983    1985     1986
Bons de Caisse
6 months to 1 year
Up to CFAF 200,000          4.25     6.25     8.25      7.25    6.25     5.25
CFAF 200,001-500,000       4.75      6.75     8.75      7.75    6.75     5.75
CFAF 500.001-2,000,000      5.50     7.50     9.50      8.50    7.50     6.50
Above CFAF 2,000,000        5.50     7.50     9.50      S.S0    8.00     7.00
1 year or longer
Up to CFAF 200,000          5.25     7.25     9.25      8.25    7.25     6.25
CFAF 200,001-500,000       6.00      8.00    10.00      9.00.   8.00     7.00
CPAP 500,001-2,000,000      6.50     8.50    10.50      9.50    8.50     7.50
Above CFAP 2,000,000        6.50     8.50    10.50      9.50    9.00     8.00
Savings Accounts               5.50     7.50     9.50      8.50    7.50     6.50
(a) Compulsory remunerati. _? sight deposits was suspended for
a two-year period as from January 1, 1985.
ASME
July 1987



S£NECAL
INSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET OF BANKS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30. 1985
(in CFAF billion)
CITI-                           SOFIS-
BCCI      BHS     BIAO    sicis      EDS      BSK    BANK   CNCAS      UFI    SCBS    EDIT  SONA-4      USS   TOTAL
ASSETS
Cash, Central Bank              11.61      .40     1.0O      6.33      .98     .46    1.48      .22     .37    1.40      .10     .11     .78   26.21
Banks and Correspondents          .42     3.73       .66     1.04     1.62    1.35    1.19    1.82      .20      .93     .93     .06     .88   14.04
Other Financial Institutions       -        -        .41      .86      .80      .31      -       -      .18      .64      -      .38     .66    3.64
Governments and Non-Financial    .11       .42       .76      .30    10.93     .19      .20      -       -       .48     .42      -      .49   14.30
International Institutions
Loan Portfolio                   2.08    12.99    48.90    46.67    82.78   1S.88    8.42       .18    2.87   60.66    8.76      .39   67.96  853.52
Other Accounts                     -       .09     4.67        -        -       -       -       .10    1.36      -        -       -       -      6.12
Securities and Investments        .01      .11       .39      .98     1.67     .23      -        -       -       .37     .39      -       .46    4.40
Fixed Asseto                      .04      .33     2.37      1.77      .73     .29      .14     .22     .13    1.62      .08     .05    1.98    9.76
Other                             .15      .18     5.98      9.39    65.34   10.52      .81              -    16.64    2.62      .63   14.23  124.99      ON
TOTAL ASSETS                    14.42    10.26    64.94    66.84   164.53   29.20   11.66    2.04    4.61   81.74    8.21    2.12   87.38  655.93
LIABILITIES
Central Bank                       -        -     12.22    12.40    63.55    8.20       .29      -       -    15.68       -       -    35.92  148.14
Banks and Correspondents         1.96      .02     1.28       .47     3.95    1.21      .6S      -       .10    7.33     .01     .09    2.58   19.54
Other Financial Inst;tutions       -        -         -       .02     7.90      -        -       -     1.04      .13    2.91     .07      .14   11.31
Governments and Non-Financial    .23        -       2.67     1.81    11.92      .83     .68      -       -       .10      -       -      8.41   26.45
International Institutions
Deposits, Borrouings, etc.      10.48     9.30    36.97    40.43    15.33   12.31    7.03       .44    1.68   42.73       -     1.01   32.16  209.85
Other Accounts                    .80      .e2      9.12     7.30    55.43    4.46    1.66      .03      .34   11.85    2.62     .36    7.73  102.20
Equity ond Provisions             .81     7.83      3.09     4.06     7.30    2.12    1.01    1.S7    1.75    3.91    2.94       .60    2.36   39.13
Previous Losses                    -        -         -        -        -      (.02)     -       -      (.32)     -     (.03)     -      (.62)   (.89)
Profits/Losses                    .36      .28      (.31)     .36      .0       .09      64              04      .33    (.14      -    (1.39)    .20
TOTAL LIABILITIES               14.42    18.2S    64.94    66.84   164.53   29.20   11.65    2.04    4.61   81.74    8.21    2.12   87.38  655.93
r'I
Share of Total Assets (Z)         2.6      3.3     11.7      12.0     29.8     6.3      2.1     0.4     0.8    14.7      1.5     0.4    15.7   100.0    X
Share of Loan Portfolio (%)       0.6      3.6     13.8      13.2     23.4     4.5      2.4     0.1     0.7    17.2      1.1     0.3    19.2   109.0    w
Lod. ... tfolio/Assets (X)       1S.1     71.2     75.3      89.8     50.3    54.3    72.3      6.7    51.7    74.2    46.7    42.3   77.8    63.6    *>



- 57 -
ANNEC 3.05
DN~IAIRL SEI:I1 REThISDIR PPW
Evolution of Aagregated Balance 1et of the Bmnking System
(Septerber 30, in CFAF biUlion)
1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985
Cash art Reserves             10.2         8.5         17.9         20.9         15.0        23.5
Etemal Assets                 13.7         14.0        14.5         19.3        14.4         16.1
Advances to Governunt         16.3         14.5        16.1         14.0         14.1        15.0
Credits to Econamy           260.6        294.2       329.5        360.1       360.3        368.4
Short-term                 189.1        220.6       248.3        234.7        186.0       185.8
Medimn--ez.                 58.7         57.3         60.8        66.5         78.2        76.9
king-tern                    1.9          1.8         6.2         40.0         74.3        79.4
1khpa1d                      2.2          4.9         2.4          2.3         3.0          6.6
Doubtful                     8.8          9.6         11.8        16.7         18.9        19.7
Other Assets                  83.6        111.6       138.4        135.9        125.8       137.8
rAL ASSEIS                   384.4        442.8       516.4        550.2       529.6        560.8
LIABILiTIES
Izx!Ivdual. and 0aq=Wn
Dqposits                    126.2        120.2        161.0       183.2        189.7       211.0
Individual and Privatu     119.4        118.4        157.5       179.0        184.5       205.3
Public and Pararpublic       6.5          1.6         3.0          3.9         4.5          5.6
FPnance CoIpanies            0.4          0.3         0.4          0.3         0.7          0.1
Gbvt Deposits                 13.3         15.6        17.3         13.6        19.4         18.8
Central Ban Rediscamt         92.0        123.6       142.5        174.6       145.3        151.1
Pxternal Borrowings           44.4         50.3        51.9         55.7        55.0         44.9
o£ uhlch m- snd torg-tenn    13.7         13.1        16.5         16.4         15.6        11.5
Equity                        26.1        25.8         26.9         30.9        29.6         34.6
Other Llabilities             82.4        107.3       116.8         92.2        90.6        100.4
IOMAL LIABILiTIES            384.4        442.8       516.4        550.2       529.6        560.8
CB rediscount/Total Assets %  23.9         27.9        27.6         31.7        27.5         26.9
CB rediscount/Cr. Economy Z   35.3         42.0        43.2         48.5        40.4         41.0
AFi1E
Aprilt 1987



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.06
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Evolution of Outstanding Credit to the Economy
(in CFAF billion at end of fiscal year)
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985    1986
Short-term        197.8     251.4      300.1      284.0     218.1    239.6    251.6
Medium-term        59.0       64.0      65.6       70.2       83.8     88.5      88.2
Long-term           2.1        2.1       1.3       22.9       58.1     69.5      70.8
Total           258.9     317.5      367.0      377.1     360.0    397.6    410.6
Of Which:
Private           149.0      161.7     185.7      208.0     231.8    255.0    263.8
Public            109.9     155.8      181.3      169.1      128.2    142.6    146.8
Outstanding
Credits to
Manufacturing:    46.8        59.2      67.5       82.2       87.1     85.9      87.8
APSIE
April 1987



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.07
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Analysis of Credit to the Economy by Subsector
(June 1986, in CFAF billion)
Short-  Medium-   Long-
Term     Term     Term    Private   Public   Total
-     _    -_-
Agriculture, fisheries           9.3     3.3        -       10.0       2.6     12.6
Mining                           2.6     0.1        -         2.7      -        2.7
Manufacturing                   60.5    26.8        0.5     79.9       7.9     87.8
Utilities                        2.3     2.0        -        -         4.3      4.3
Housing and public works        20.8     6.8        -       26.5       1.1     27.6
Trade and tourism              105.0    13.4       68.6     80.0    107.0    187.0
Transport and storage           10.8     6.1        -       15k2       1.7     16.9
Insurance                       20.0    11.0        0.2      9.3      21.9     31.2
Social Services                 20.3    18.8        1.4     40.2       0.3     40.5
Total                       251.6    8.3        70.7    263.8    146.8    410.6
AP51E
April 1987



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.0O
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Analysis of Banking Credit to the Manufacturing Sector
(June 1986, in CFAF billion)
Short-  Medium-   Long-
Term     Term      Term    Private   Public   Total
Agro-industries                  26.3     11.4      0.1     34.3       3.5     37.8
Textiles and leather             8.5       0.9       -       8.0       1.4      9.4
Wood and wood products            2.3      1.0       -       2.7       0.6      3.3
Paper and cardboard               1.3      0.7      -        1.9      0.1       2.0
Electronics and chemicals       11.7      11.5      -       23.2       -       23.2
Non-ferrous metals               3.5       0.1     0.1       3.7       -        3.7
Equipments and machine tools    6.1        1.0     0.3       5.0      2.3       7.3
Other manufacturing industries  1.0        0.2      -        1.1       -        1.1
Total                        60.6      26.7     0.5      79.9      7.9      87.8
AFSIE
April 1987



SENEGAL
Industrial Sector Restructuring Project
Analysis of Outstanding Banking Credit to the Manufacturing Sector
(June 1986, in CFAF Billion)
40-
30    --
o_             .e  4 
20
m  20-      _c
U.
10 -  
Public
0                                          _|___ g___________________________ _ g  w         bPrivate
AFSIE                              94%, e00                                4      ,
August 1987                            or-.  - '-,        0/                                     MO
cekIW3 1222-2



SENE=
TIIJSIRIAL SEIr PRRaES¶EEIURJr PR
Central Bank Credit       _
(Jauary 1985 - September 1986)
C 1985                                          Ck196
Q1wrers
Ye8rly
1          2           3          4          Total           1      2        3         Total        Avrqg
Agriculture               1,588         -           861        -           2,449        220    350      1,990       2,560         2,931
Mbnrfacouring             9,102       1,400      11,909        600        23,011      2,650    330    2,064         5,044        14,868
Short-term             5,877       1,300       40300        600        12,077      2,500     130     1,155       3,785         8,562
Medil m-term           3.225         100       7,609        -          10,934        150    200        909       1,259         6,306
buildiig                  7,540         -          -           -           7,540        -        -        300         300         3,970
Cmmerce                   6,735       2,826       2,322      1,745        13,628      5,568      -        236       5,804        10,683
Other                     2,375         175         245        150         2,945        350      -      1,137       1,87          2,464
Total                 27,340       4,401      15,337      2,495        49,573      8,788    6i8      5,727      15,195        34,916
AFSE
April 1987



- 63 -
ANNEX 4.02
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component a
Cost Estimates
Man-Months   Local       Foreign     Total
-      US$ Million---------
1.   Ministry of Industry
1.1  Consultancy Fund                     100       0.25        1.00       1.25
1.2  Training of MDIA Staff              n.a.         -         0.15       0.15
1.3 Equipment (computer,
furniture and vehicles)             n.a.       0.03        0.12       0.15
Total, Ministry of Industry         n.a.       0.28        1.27       1.55
2.   ASACE
2.1  Restructuring Study                    4         -         0.06       0.06
2.2  Consultants                           14       0.04        0.14       0.18
Total, ASACE                          18       0.04        0.20       0.24
3.   CICES
3.1  Consultants                           36       0.09        0.36       0.45
4.   Line of Credit
4.1  Training Seminar at COFEB           n.a.       0.02        0.03       0.05
4.2  Training courses                    n.a.       0.06        0.24       0.30
Total, Line of Credit               n.a.       0.08        0.27       0.35
5.   SSE Scheme
5.1 Assistance to NFR and
Secretariat for Employment            6          -         0.09       0.09
5.2  Advisor at SOFISEDIT                  18       0.05        0.17       0.22
Total, SSE Scheme                    24        0.05        0.26       0.31
6.   Contingencies                                  0.05        0.05       0.10
Total                                       0.59        2.41       3.00
a/  Exclusive of local personnel and other support provided by the
Government.
AFSIE
November 1987



- 64 -
ANNEX 4.03
Page 1 of 5
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Restructuring Strategy for the Senegalese
Export Credit Insurance Agency (ASACE)
Summary
1.        ASACE ("Agence SEnegalaise pour l'Assurance du Credit a
A Exportation" - Export Credit Insurance Agency), in operation for less
than 4 years, has insured only a small volume of Senegal's export sales for
a few exporters, is hampered by cumbersome administrative procedures, and
lacks credibility with both exporters and banks. ASACE only covers a
fraction of its operating costs through revenues generated from operations,
and is dependent on government subsidies. The restructuring program
outlined in the following paragraphs aims at reducing ASACE's operating
costs, improving its efficiency and credibility through increased private
sector participation, and reforming its structure, methods and marketing
strategy.
Current Situation
2.        Background.  ASACE was set up in 1981 and started operations late
in 1983.  Its objective was to offer commercial and political risk coverage
on export sales by Senegalese companies.  ASACE covers pre-shipment and
post-shipment credit risk under individual policies covering single
transactions or under global policies covering the entirety of an
exporter's exposure on foreign sales. ASACE is one of the few export
credit insurance agencies in Africa, a founder of the Dakar Union (an
association of African and Caribbean export credit insurers), and a member
of the Berne Union.
3.        Current Export Credit Insurance Activity.  So far, ASACE's
performance has been disappointing. Annual exports insured by ASACE are
estimated at about US$11 million (i.e., less than 2X of total exports).
ASACE's risks are highly concentrated: All but four of the 74 foreign
buyers covered are in 14 Western and Central African countries, the
remaining ones are in Europe. About 95% of risk exposure is in Africa,
over 50% is concentrated in two countries (Cote d'Ivoire and Cameroon) and
almost 40%, in three companies in those two countries. The following table
illustrates this risk concentration.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4.03
Page 2 of 5
Table 1
ASACE: Commercial and Political Risk Insurance Exposure (June 1987)
Commercial Risk   Political Risk          All Risks
Country              CEAF M      %    CFAF M    _       CFAF M   %   Cum. X
Cote d'Ivoire            157.0    32.3      -      -       157.0   30.5   30.5
Cameroon                 110.0    22.6      7.0   25.5    117.0   22.8   53.3
Burkina Faso              35.3      7.3     1.0    3.6      36.3    7.1   60.4
Mali                      36.0      7.4     -      -        36.0    7.0   67.4
Europe 1/                 28.5     5.9      -      -        28.5    5.5   72.9
11 Other African
Countries               119.8    24.6    19.5   70.9    139.3   27.1  100.0
Total                    486.6   100.0    27.5  100.0    514.1  100.0
1/ France, Benelux, Belgium
4.        Organizational Structure and Staffing.  ASACE, previously under
the tutelage of the Ministry of Commerce, was recently placed under the
oversight of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. ASACE does not have
autonomous legal status, which limits the institution's credibility. All
decisions to insure exports are made by a nine-member commission, which
comprises representatives from several ministries and other organizations,
and meets irregularly. This cumbersome decision-making process has
hindered effective operation and has resulted in long delavs in approving
coverages. ASACE operates with a small staff (seven, including four
professionals). Because of modest salaries, staff turnover has been high,
and therefore most of the staff are relatively inexperienced.
5.        Financial Resources.  The Senegalese Government provided ASACE
with an initial capital totalling CFAF 150 million (US$480,000); it has
subsequently made available claim reserves which totalled, CFAF 117 million
(US$370,000) at the end of FY1986. Due to the very low level of activity,
only about 20% of operating expenses were covered by gross premiums in
1986, while 80% were covered by operating subsidies from the Government
which totalled over CFAF 38 million in 1986. In addition, ASACE manages a
fund of CFAF 132 million (US$420,000) which was set up by the Government in
1981 to subsidize interest rates on exports but which has never become
operational. ASACE currently has substantial liquidity, which reflects the
low level of claims so far.  Key financial indicators of ASACE's activity
are summarized in Table 2 below:



- 66 -
ANNEX 4.03
Page 3 of 5
Table 2
ASACE: Summary Financial Performance (FY1985 - 1986)
(CFAF million)
FY1985           FY1986
Income Statement Indicators
Operating Revenues
Premium Income                                       9.7               7.3
Investment Income                                   14.3              16.5
Operating Subsidy from Government                   32.3              38.3
Operating Cost
Claims and Claims Costs                             35.2               8.0
Reinsurer's Portion                                 28.2               6.4
Net Claims Paid                                      7.0               1.6
Operating Expenses                                  27.8              36.8
Balance Sheet Indicators
Short-term Liquid Assets                           294.2             433.6
Total Assets                                       314.5             453.0
Total Capital and Reserves                         213.6             291.6
6.        Reinsurance.  ASACE has until now been able to secure reinsurance
abroad for both commercial and political risk. The reinsurance policy
covers up to 80Z of claims under the insurance policies. The only claim so
far paid by ASACE (CFAF 39 million) was to a large extent covered by this
reinsurance policy.
Potential for Export Credit Insurance
7.        Rationale for Export Credit Insurance.  Effective export credit
insurance could help develop Senegal's exports for two reasons.  Firstly,
the export credit insurance would reduce the non-repayment risk to
exporters, thus encouraging them to enter new markets and to develop their
exposure in existing ones. Secondly, availability of export credit
insurance would comfort banks, easing access to export financing by
exporters. Virtually all industrialized countries and high-growth
developing countries have government-supported export credit insurance
programs to assist export development.
8.        Market for Export Credit Insurance in Senegal.  The low
penetration of export credit insurance services results in part from the
very limited marketing efforts developed by ASACE since the beginning of



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.03
Page 4 cf 5
its operations. A recently completed study by external consultants, which
iwvolved extensive surveying of Senegalese exporters suggested that as much
as 20X of Senegalese exports could be insured after a build-up period of
about 6 years. While most of this potential would continue to be sales in
Africa, some diversification to Europe and other regions was possible.
Agro-industrial exports and non traditional exports offered the highest
potential for development of export credit insuarance.
Restructuring of ASACE
9.        The restructuring program has been designed to increase ASACE's
credibility, improve its efficiency and develop interest of exporters in
its services. Specifically, the program would have the following
objectives: (i) increased financial and managerial autonomy; (ii)
improvements in procedures and policies; (iii) provision of insurance
products which would better respond to exporters' needs; and (iv) expansion
of the market for export credit insurance through an industry-wide
information campaign. Bringing the private sector into the institution
will help the new entity achieve these various objectives. Specific
features of the proposed restructuring program are summarized below:
ii) Institutional Structure. ASACE would be established as an
autonomous corporate entity with a majority interest held by
private banks and insurance companies. This would provide ASACE.
with a separate legal status and would bring the needed private
sector management expertise, including banks' experience in
evaluating credit risk and insurance companies' knowledge of
insurance operations, thus improving the credibility of the
institution.
(ii) Risk Sharing. The commercial risk would be assumed by the export
credit insurance agency. On the other hand, ASACE would manage
the political risk as the agent for the Government, according to
guidelines set by Government. These risk-sharing arrangements
are in line with common world-wide industry practice.
(iii) Management. The Board of ASACE would provide broad guidance over
ASACE's operations, including the setting of premium rates, the
definition of insurance products, and approval of commercial risk
coverage on specific foreign buyers.
(iv) Capitalization. The restructured organization would be
established with a capit,l of about CFAF 400 million raised from
the private sector and Government. The share of the Government
would include equity already committed to ASACE.
(v) Financial Viability of the Restructured Agency. Projections
under various scenarios indicate that the restructured export
credit insurance agency under reasonable assumptions of activity
could become profitable after an initial start-up period of about
6 years.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4.03
Page 5 of 5
Action Plan
10.       A first phase (about 3 months) in the restructuring process will
consist in determining the potential interest of banks and insurance
companies in participating in the proposed setup. A committee of potential
shareholders would be formed to study the key aspects of the privatization
process (e.g., legal aspects, risk-sharing arrangements, management
structure).
11.       The second phase (about 4 months) will consist in the
establishment of ASACE as a registered insurance company, the conclusion if
agreements between ASACE and the Government (including the coverage of
political risk), the design of the structure of the new organization and
its broad policies (decision-making procedures, premium rates and reserve
levels, development of a marketing program, renegotiation of reinsurances
etc.).
12.       Finally, in a third phase, a major marketing effort would be
undertaken; detailed policies would be designed, as well as procedures
such as claims, recoveries, underwriting guidelines, and a training program
for the staff would be implemented (6 months).
Technical Assistance
13.       About.14 months of specialized technical assistance will be
required to: (i) assist in the privatization process; (ii) help develop
the operating procedures and policies (e.g., premium setting, reserves and
claims management); and (iii) provide staff training.
AFSIE
July 1987



- 69 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 1 of 4
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Restructuring Program for the Senegalese Center for External Trade (CICES)
A. Background
1.        Starting in the mid 1970s, the Government has set up a number of
institutions aimed at developing Senegalese exports, including: (i) CSCE,
established in 1977 as a mixed-ownership entity to provide exporters with
information on foreign markets and help them organize and participate in
commercial events abroad; (ii) ASACE (Export Insurance Credit Agency)
which was set up in 1981 within the CSCE to provide export insurance credit
services (see Annex 4.03); (iii) CCE ("Cellule de Gestion des Entreprises")
formed in 1985 as a semi-autonomous call within CSCE to assist specific
exporters in their export sales; and (iv) SOFIDAK, set up in 1976 to
organize the biannual International Dakar Fair as well as other business
meetings. In 1986, the Government undertook a financial and operational
audit of these various entities by the BOM ("Bureau des Organisations et
NEthodes"), a consulting unit attached to the Office of the President of
the Republic. A major recommendation stemming from this audit was the
merger of CSCE (including the ASACE and the CGE) and of SOFIDAK into a new.
entity, the CICES ("Centre International du Commerce Ext&rieur"). This new
entity has been operational since December 1986.
B. Organizatlon
2.        The new organization is governed by a Board of Directors of
12 members, seven of whom are representing the State. It includes: (i) a
department of trade information and training (in charge of public
relations, a monthly bulletin, publications and seminars); (ii) a
department of export promotion in charge of organizing fairs and other
representations abroad, commercial missions and general market studies;
(iii) the Export Contract Management Unit (CGS) which currently provides
direct assistance to 19 enterprises; this unit recovers part of its cost
through payments by enterprises for services rendered; and (iv) the
SOFIDAKs which organizes the Industrial Dakar Fair. The CICES presently
has a staff of 56, following a substantial reduction (from about 100) in
1986.
C. Resources
3.        CICES has received annual subsidies from the State averaging
CFAP 150 million and has benefitted from a continuous stream of externally
funded technical assistance provided for a large part by the European
Development Fund (EDF). This external assistance has supported market
studies, export promotion missions, participation in trade fairs, and also
financed a part-time advisor to the Export Contract Hanagement Unit.
Subsidies from the State have been severely curtailed following the 1986



- 70 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 2 of 4
ieorganization. Simultaneously, EDF-funded programs of technical
assistance are '3eing phased out and should by 1988 be limited to support
for the participation of Senegalese industries in trade fairs.
D. Performance of CICES
4.        CSCE's performance has been disappointing.  Exporters rarely used
its services, and its impact on the growth of Senegalese exports has been
negligible. There is little reason to believe that the newly set-up CICES
will function any better than CSCE since it suffers from the same flaws,
including: (i) involvement in peripheral activities of little relevance to
exporters (e.g., broad country studies rather than specific assistance in
response to actual needs; support to the Ministry of Commerce); (ii) a
bureaucratic mode of operation; and (iii) lack of interface with the
private sector in the formulation and implementation of its work programs;
and (iv) poor geographic location away from the center of economic
activity. These factors have recently been compounded by: (i) the decrease
in financial, manpower, and technical assistance resources following the
1986 reorganization; and (ii) the merger with SOFIDAK, which resulted in a
drain on CICES resources on account of the Dakar International Fair.
E. Proposed Strategy
5.        In the context of the New Industrial Policy, institutional
support will be required to help manufacturing enterprises reorient their
activities towards exports, helping them identify and develop new markets
abroad.  CICES's activities would need to be redefined accordingly, and
should be geared in priority towards providing existing and prospective
exporting enterprises with the services they require in terms of trade
information, product and market development, and promotional support.
CICES' assistance should be of a practical nature, to the exclusion of
activities which have no dirpct bearing on export development.
F. Restructuring Plan
Discontinuing Nonessential Activities
6.        SOFIDAK.  CICES should no longer be involved in the organization
of the Dakar International Fair. A suitable arrangement should be found to
put SOFIDAK under a separate management, as was the case prior to the 1986
restructuring. There is little justification for putting SOFIDAK under
CICES management, apart from the fact that both organizations are currently
located in the Dakar Fair buildings.
7.        Studies.  CICES would discontinue market and country surveys of a
general nature. Much of the information collected in these surveys may be
found in existing publications available at little zost.
8.        Training.  CICES has in the past organized training programs for
exporters partly funded by international aid. CICES is not adequately
staffed to carry out this activity which could be left to more specialized
institutions such as CESAG and URFOP.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 3 of 4
Support to the Ministry of Trade.  CICES should reduce
substantially the resources it is devoting to meeting various requests from
the Ministry of Trade. Much of this work could be carried out by the
Minister's Cabinet or Directorate for External Trade.
Strengthening Direct Assistance to Enterprises
10.       Advisory Services.  CICES should reinforce and broaden the
assistance currently provided to exporters. A broad range of appropriate
advisory services should be made available to enterprises at two different
levels: (i) Export marketing assistance should be provided in areas such
as product development, packaging, pricing, and promotional strategies. To
the extent possible, beneficiary firms should be required to contribute to
the costs of these services; (ii) in addition, the existing Export Contract
Management Unit should be strengthened so as to broaden its clientele and
the scope of services it offers to exporters. This unit should keep its
operational autonomy, while liaising i±osely with the export marketing
assistance services.
11.       Market Development.  One of the areas where CICES has been most
successful seems to be the organization of Senegalese trade missions
overseas. This activity would be maintained and strengthened. This could
be achieved by assigning the organization of these missions to a separate
unit within its organization. This task was so far achieved with the
support of EDF technical assistance program, and alternative sources of
funding would need to be identified as EDF assistance is phased out.
12.       Trade Information.  There is a need to restructure the trade
information services currently provided by CICES by: (i) improving the
quality of data presently available at the documentation unit; (ii)
developing a simple system to disseminate practical information to
exporters (rather than responding to ad hoc requests, as at present); and
(iii) advertising the availability of this information service.
Improving Interface with the Private Sector
13.       Generally, CICES should develop close ties with private sector
organizations which have an export potential, to improve the institution's
response to the needs of the sector.   Participation of the private sector
in the management of CICES should be institutionalized. The present
minority private sector participation in the Board of Directors is
inadequate for this purpose, apart from the fact that this body of
12 members rarely convenes and has little influence on the day-to-day basis
management of CICES. An Executive Committee of about five members (i.e.,
three chief executives of exporting firms, the Managing Director of CICES,
and a representative of the Ministry of Trade) should meet every six to
eight weeks to define priorities, establish a work program, and supervise
the implementation of this work program.
14.       Relocation.  CICES would considerably increase its efficiency
with more appropriate location either in the city center or in the
industrial area. This alternative location should be actively sought and a
relocation plan be proposed by CICES before the full restructuring program
is implemented.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 4 of 4
16sources Required
15.       Operating Costs.  The cost of operating the export promotion
activities of CICES is currently estimated at about CFAP 150 million per
year, which the Government provides in the form of a subsidy (para. 3).
This subsidy should be maintained, as the institution cannot be expected in
the coming years to become self-supporting or to recover from exporters
more than a token portion of the real cost of its services.
16.       Technical Assistance.  In addition, comprehensive technical
assistance is needed to support the restructuring program. Such assistance
would be over a period of about three years and would provide about 36
man-months of expertise in the form of short-term consultancy in areas of
advisory services (24 man-months), market development (6 man-month.s), and
trade information (6 man-months). The cost would be about US$400,000 and
would be financed under the proposed Industrial Sector Restructuring
Project.
AM5IE
July 1987



- 73 -
ANNEX 4.05
Page 1 of 3
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Projected Quarterly Disbursements of the IDA Credit
(USs 000)
Profiles (%)
Quarterly                      West African    All
Quarter Ending      Disbursements      Cumulative        Region      Regions
September 1987                            -                               -
December 1987            -
March 1988                -                 -                             2
June 1988                .330              .330            -
September 1988           .330              .660            2              4
Decamber 1988            .490             1.150            -              -
March 1989               .490             1.650            5             10
June 1989                .830             2.480            -              -
September 1989          .820             3.300            10             20
December 1989            .990             4.290            -              -
March 1990               .990             5.280           16             31
June 1990              1.320              6.600            -              -
September 1990         1.320              7.920           24             44
December 1990          1.160              9.080            -              -
March 1991             1.150             10.230           31             56
June 1991              1.320             11.550            -              -
3eptember 1991         1.320             12.870           39             67
December 1991          1.320             14.190            -              -
M.4h 1992               1.320            15.5.10          47             76
June 1992              1.320             16.830            -              -
September 1992         1.320             18.150           55             83
December 1992          1.160             19.310            -              -
March 1993              1.150            20.460           62             89
June 1993              1.160             21.620            -              -
September 1993         1.150             22.770           69             93
December 1993           1.160            23.930            -              -
March 1994              1.150            25.080           76             97
June 1994                .820            25.900            -              -
September 1994          .830            26.730            81             99
December 1994            .830            27.560            -              -
March 1995               .820            28.380           86            100
June 1995                .660            29.040



- 74 -
ANNEX 4.05
Page 2 of 3
SENEGAL
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Projected Quarterly Disbursements of the IDA Credit
(US$' 000)
Profiles (%)
Quarterly                     West African    All
Quarter Ending     Disbursements      Cumulative       Region      Regions
September 1995          .660           29.700           90
December 1995           .490           30.190            -
March 1996              .500           30.690           93
June 1996               .500           31.190            -
September 1996          .490           31.680           96
December 1996           .330           32.010            -
March 1997              .330           32.340           98
June 1997               .330           32.670            -
September 1997          .330           33.0            100
December 1997
March 1998
June 1998
AFSIE
August 1987



SENEGAL
Industrial Sector Restructuring Project
Projected Disbursements of the IDA Credit
100 -
90-
80-
/t 
70-
:                 ~~~~~~~//
60-
40-
30-
20               /
10-    .       ,//                           -                         -. All Regions
West Afrkcan
Region    O
O- } 8 ~~~~~~I    I     I    I                I     I IIlRgo   
FY7/87 7/88 7/89 7/90 7/91 7/92 7/93 7/94 7/95 7/96 7/97
Semi Annual Profiles
cak/W31222-1



MAP SECTION



IP                                                                 16'                          M         A    U R      I    T A
S  E N  E G    A  L                                     o Nouoacchott
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR                                                  ,R
RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                               Toll
Ross  ~  2e6ir
Betho  ') o                                        //>, ' 
j j^/ ~N gn ./
16        EXISTING PAVED ROADS                                                   N                                     I* 
8.   --    PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION       4 1'I'
GRAVEL ROADS                           t.,/
EARTH ADAUS                                              '                                                Iere
| + RAILROADS
0    REGION CAPITALS                   .                  ,At                U      G         A
REGION BOUNDARIES       Ti                                                              /
-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES.
M'boyeck  Koyar /                                                         09
CAP XtKINi~ 
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
BANJUicut                                                faf TTE.eke-  \ \
A Ti ANT/ rc                                                                                                   -'Koutiola
..,.w.N.,M,~~~~~~A'~ ',..
0 CEA A N                                                                                                S
'.-0                             
2- 0 - 5 
> 5*0                          /ior
20  30   40/6
0   10  20  30 40 10      S 60 7   09  0
Cot~~~SIur'in~~~ ~~   ~~                    0   U  I N  E A-B              SA  U



,,_______________________________________________________                                                                                               IBRD 2062
.                  rws rnsp tias been prepared by               flir
A     U     R     I   T    A        N       I    A         Tatm 884'sstaffxck                         Sponish Shoro           F   \    Algerio           \  LIbya
t readers nradis xusiveyt  rhe                         / the
Anternaliuse of The World Bea nk
and the nenatronal Finance
Corporelion the denominations                     Muiai
used and the boodarns shovn         Uau rtania                      I 
an ft.  map do not inVIY. On thO
/ /'/"/',2 ~   </,/-p/ part ot The Word Bankand ft                                                                                all at'         Niger
t__, . /zXi/ w/            n,any judgmnt on te eal slaS         The, SENEGAL "                           - J
of any hend&j, or any                 Gmi
/ Qv/./&   f f f 5  enrdorsement or aceptance of                  B_-urkina
/K~~~~x~~~.> ~~~suchi boia'ianes                                Gimiea.Bjssov     ;~e        
16*  Sierra ioon 7                        s      N  gerio
.  .   .  , , -|| (¢erfe L " ^8; t ) f N ,g,,.,~~Ser(a Lonet 
16--              I      W~~~~Divoir8ehona              -.,      I
Liber.q                   )           'Crnieroon'
z   ,     :f                  t/// X\.                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~A l / e n t i e  Togo 
uere ~~~~~~~~~~~~cana                                                                                     Eq. Gune&'~J L'
Lere \Oe                                                                                                                                   Gobcn )
>.°   %          <,  Ourossogwft////                                                   ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12-  _'
re                                                                                                                                    I Wzt ej            -
/ rlrtrou                                                  Selibaby       I
.-//                                w                 /
I. Qe 40s,> {        -  lTo Nioro
'Taif Tieter,e ,                                                                    -  
Ito.                                                                                                          Kdirto
devs,ae \' ~' *                     *Iebs1  .kKys 
,ra.,,,;:;I                                             I t\.
J9trosE                  NA  S  T   E t'  -A    L
. G-7 l wtA
<'2*   '                           /  EfQ    t-J E G  A  L
\<    Sk vjS S . >,   >_ *  _ t;/3 R v =                                            Boutovgcu
''    / /   /  -  '    ,,                    ~~~~~~~         ~ ~~~Ni o!ut  Niokolo Koba
#~~~/ //~                                                                                                    99/-q5\\
/7/ 7  - ~~~~~~~~~k9l4'A       i***i                                Maka ~~~~~~~~~~Soroya
E A-B    SAU A                                                                                     *- aJ  dg
g         IdX,a/ JJ                       \               ~G   U   I N E;  2 
1UiNEA12J
JUNE 1987



