Page  1
                                       October 26, 1990
His Excellency Mr Moussa TOURE
Minister of Economy and Finance
Rue Charles Laine
B.P. 4012
Dakar
Senegal
     RE- Senegal:  Credit No. 1868 SE (Industrial Sector
             Restructuring Project)
Excellency,
     Referring to the Development Credit Agreement for the
Industrial Sector Restructuring Project, dated February 5, 1988,
between the.Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the International
Development Association (the Association and to your letter dated
July 19, 1990, proposing certain changes to the Development Credit
Agreement in order to adapt the project better to the restructuring
needs of the Senegalese enterprises, we are pleased to inform you
that the Association accepts your proposal and proposes the
following amendments to the Development Credit Agreement:
1.  Category (1) in para. 1 of Schedule 1 be amended, the amount of
Credit allocated (expressed in SDR equivalent) and the % of
expenditures to be financed, to read as follows:
     (1)  (a)  Goods for      15,325,000100%
               Investment
               Projects
               financed
               under
               Sub-loans
               Part A.1
               of the
               Project
               other than
               those included
               in Categories
               1(b) and
               1(c)
         (b)   Sub-loans for    825,000 80%
               rehabilita-
               tion studies
         (c)   Sub-loans for  2,750,000 100%
               working
               capital
2.   The time period set forth in sub-paragraph (i) of para. 2(b)
Schedule 1 for the eligibility of expenditures made prior to the
date on which the Association shall receive the application, be
amended to read "hundred a eighty days".
3.   The debt/equity ratio, set forth in para. 1 (c) of Part A of
Schedule 4, be substituted by the ratio of "4:1".
4.   The liquidity ratio, set forth in para. 1 (d) of Part A of
Schedule 4, be substituted by "1:1", and the wording "provided,
however, that reasonable projections shall indicate that a liquidity
ratio of at least 1,2:1 will be achieved during the term of the Sub-
loan" be added at the end of such paragraph.
5.   The debt service coverage ratio, set forth in para. 1 (e) of
A of Schedule 4, be substituted by the ratio of "1:1" and the
wording "provided, however, that the reasonable projections shall
indicate a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1,3:1 will be
Page  2
achieved during the term of the Sub-loan" added at the end of such
paragraph.
6.   At the end of para. 2 (c) of Part A of Schedule 4 the
following sentence be added: "provided, however, that the maturity
of Sub-loans for working capital shall not exceed five years with a
maximum grace period of three years and the maturity of Sub-loans,
which can be converted into equity, shall have a maximum maturity of
ten years and a maximum grace period of five years.
7.   At the end of para. 2 of Part A of Schedule 4, the following
paragraph be added:
     (j)  Sub-loans for rehabilitation studies shall be limited to
     CFAF 15 million per study.
     (k)  Sub-loans for working capital shall be limited to CFAF
     150 million per Sub-loan."
8.   The amount of the Authorized Allocation for the Special
Account A, set forth in para. 1 (d) (i) of Schedule 5 be amended to
read "CFAF 500 million".
     Could you indicate your agreement to these amendments by
signing the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Upon receipt of the signed copy by the Association, the amendment
shall become effective.
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                   Authorized Representative
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Authorized Representative
Date: November 23, 1990
