Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1868 SE
             (Industrial Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 5, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1868 SE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February  5,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
SENEGAL (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MDIA" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Industry and
Handicrafts;
     (c)  "BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest;
     (d)  "SOFISEDIT"  means  the  Socie\08'te\08'  Financie\08`re Se\08'ne\08'galaise
pour le De\08'veloppement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme;
     (e)  "CICES" means Centre International du Commerce Exterieur
du Senegal;
     (f)  "ASACE" means  Agence  Se\08'ne\08'galaise  d'Assurance Credit a\08`
l'Exportation;
     (g)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by
a Participating Bank to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project under Part A.1 of the Project;
     (h)  "Investment Enterprise" means  an  enterprise to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (i)  "Investment  Project"  means  a  specific  restructuring
project to be carried out  by an existing Investment Enterprise or
a specific development project to be  carried out by a new Invest-
ment Enterprise, utilizing the proceeds  of a Sub-loan and fulfil-
ling the conditions set forth  in  Part  A.1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
     (j)  "Investment  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  between a
Participating Bank and  an  Investment  Enterprise providing for a
Sub-loan;
     (k)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into by  BCEAO  and  the  Participating  Banks pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Participating  Bank"  means   a  bank  established  and
operating in conformity with the  banking  laws of the Republic of
Senegal, which will enter  or  has  entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with BCEAO;
     (m)  "Subsidiary  Credit  Agreement"  or  "Subsidiary  Credit
Agreements" mean the agreement to  be  entered by the Borrower and
SOFISEDIT, or the  agreements  entered  into  by  the Borrower and
other  banking  institutions  acceptable  to  the  Association, in
accordance with the provisions of  Section 3.04 (a) of this Agree-
ment as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (n)  "Protocol" means the agreement to be entered into by the
Borrower and BCEAO pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "CFAF" means  the  currency  of  the  Borrower and other
members of the West African Monetary Union; and
     (p)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  June 24, 1986, September 9, 1986,
July 9, 1987 and September  3,  1987, between the Borrower and the
Association.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to   twenty-five   million   Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 25,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  open  and  maintain  in  CFAF four
special accounts (the  Special  Accounts)  on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  Special Account A for  the purposes of carrying out
               Part A of the Project;
         (ii)  Special Account B for  the purposes of carrying out
               Part B.3 of the Project;
        (iii)  Special Account C for  the purposes of carrying out
               Parts B.2, B.4, B.5 and C of the Project; and
         (iv)  Special Account D for  the purposes of carrying out
               Part B.1 of the Project.
     Special Account A and Special  Account  B shall be opened and
maintained in BCEAO and Special  Accounts  C and D shall be opened
and maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association.
     Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the  authorized  amount of the Project Pre-
paration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1998, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies  as  may, from time to time,
be designated  or  selected  pursuant  to  the  provisions of that
Section.
Page  4
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each  June 15 and December 15,
commencing June  15,  1998,  and  ending  December  15, 2027. Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on Decem-
ber 15, 2007, shall be one  percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall  be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the Republic of France hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part  B.1 of the
Project through the National  Office for Vocational Training under
the Ministry  for  National  Education,  Part  B.2  of the Project
through the Secretariat  of  Employment,  Part  B.4 of the Project
through ASACE, Part B.5 of  the  Project through CICES, and Part C
of the Project through MDIA, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity  with  appropriate  financial and administrative
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. For  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall enter into a Protocol with BCEAO under
terms and conditions  acceptable  to  the  Association which shall
include:
     (a)  eligibility criteria for Participating Banks and Invest-
ment Projects, Sub-loan  processing  procedures, the definition of
BCEAO's responsibilities regarding the  administration of the line
of credit to be provided  under  Part  A.1  of the Project and the
Page  5
carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project;
     (b)  the obligation of  BCEAO  to  enter into Subsidiary Loan
Agreements with  Participating  Banks  under  terms and conditions
which shall have  been  approved  by  the  Association which shall
include an interest rate of five percent (5%) per annum; and
     (c)  the obligation of BCEAO to ensure that the Participating
Banks enter into Investment Agreements with Investment Enterprises
under terms and  conditions  acceptable  to  the Association which
shall include the terms set  forth  in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) When presenting  a Sub-loan to the Associa-
tion for approval, the  Borrower  shall, through BCEAO, furnish to
the Association an  application,  in  a  form  satisfactory to the
Association, together with:  (i)  a  description of the Investment
Enterprise and an evaluation  of the Investment Project, including
a report on the fulfillment of  the criteria set forth in Part A.1
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and a description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds allocated to
Category 1 in the table set forth  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-
loan, including the schedule  of  amortization of the Sub-loan and
the terms and conditions set  forth  in  Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and (iii)  such  other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably  request;  provided,  however, that no prior
approval by the Association shall be required for Sub-loans if the
same Participating Bank already  had  prepared two Sub-loans which
were approved by the  Association  and  the amount of the proposed
Sub-loan does not exceed CFAF 100 million.
     (b)  Each request for authorization  to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect  of  a  Sub-loan, for which no prior
approval by the Association is required pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of  this  Section,  shall  contain: (i) a summary
description  of  the  Investment  Enterprise  and  the  Investment
Project, including a report  on  the  fullfillment of the criteria
set forth in Part  A.1  of  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement, and a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and  (ii)  the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Except  as  the  Borrower   and  the  Association  shall
otherwise agree, applications  and  requests  made pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  this Section shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1997.
     Section 3.04. For the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project
the Borrower shall:
     (a)  enter into a Subsidiary Credit Agreement with SOFISEDIT,
or Subsidiary Credit Agreements with other banking institutions if
so agreed upon by  the  Borrower  and the Association, under terms
and conditions acceptable to  the  Association which shall include
an interest rate of three percent (3%) per annum; and
     (b)  cause  SOFISEDIT,  or   any  other  banking  institution
acceptable to the Association, to  make loans to displaced indivi-
duals for productive activities which  shall meet the criteria set
forth under Part B.1 of  Schedule  4  to this Agreement, and under
terms and  conditions  which  shall  include  those  set  forth in
Part B.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform its obligations
under the Protocol and the Subsidiary Credit Agreements. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take
or concur in any action  which  would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or  waiving  the  Protocol or the Subsidiary
Credit Agreements.
     Section  3.06.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
Page  6
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.4, B.5  and  C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.07. Upon completion of  the study to be carried out
under Part C.5 of the Project,  the Borrower shall review with the
Association its recommendations, agree  with the Association on an
action plan to implement its  recommendations, and take the appro-
priate measures to implement the action plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Accounts, for each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such  fiscal  year,  together  with the pro-
               cedures and  internal  controls  involved  in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
Page  7
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  The Protocol has been  signed  by the Borrower and BCEAO
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a);
     (b)  BCEAO has issued a circular  to the banking system, out-
lining  the  main  features   and  administrative  procedures  for
Part A.1 of the  Project,  including  the eligibility criteria for
Participating Banks and Investment Projects; and
     (c)  the  Association  has  received  signed  Subsidiary Loan
Agreements with at  least  two  Participating  Banks in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministe\08`re de l'Economie et des Finances
          Rue Charles Laine\08'
          B.P. 4017
          Dakar, Se\08'ne\08'gal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFINANCES                     3203SG
                Dakar, Se\08'ne\08'gal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                          REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                          By /s/ Falilou Kane
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods for Invest-          18,900,000       100%
     ment Projects
     financed under
     Sub-loans under
     Part A.1 of the
     Project
(2)  Loans under                 2,300,000       100%
     Part B.3 of
     the Project
(3)  Training and
     consultants'                  225,000       100%
     services for
     Part A.2 of
     the Project
(4)  Training and                1,500,000       100%
     consultants'
     services under
     Part B.1 of the
     Project
(5)  Training under                540,000       100%
     Part C of the
     Project and con-
     sultants services
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Consultants'                    2,000       100%
     services for
Page  9
     Part B.2 of
     the Project
(7)  Consultants'                  150,000       100%
     services for
     Part B.3 of
     the Project
(8)  Consultants'                  140,000       100%
     services for
     Part B.4 of
     the Project
(9)  Consultants'                  340,000       100%
     services for
     Part B.5 of
     the Project
(10) Equipment and                  75,000       100%
     vehicles
(11) Refunding of                  703,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                suant to Sec-
     paration                                    tion 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement
(12) Unallocated                   125,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  25,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a) payments made for expenditures  prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures made by a  Participating Bank in respect of
Category (1): (i) before  the  Association shall have approved the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with  that  Participating Bank; and (ii)
unless the Sub-loan for  such  Investment  Project shall have been
approved by the Association and  such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than ninety days  prior  to the date on which the
Association shall have  received  the  application and information
required under Section 3.03  (a)  of  this Agreement in respect of
such Sub-loan; or (iii) for  Sub-loans for which no prior approval
by the Association is required pursuant to the provisions of para-
graph 3.03 (a) unless such  Sub-loan shall have been authorized by
the Association and  such  expenditures  shall  have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Associa-
tion shall  have  received  the  request  and information required
under paragraph 3.03  (b)  of  this  Agreement  in respect of such
Sub-loan;
     (c)  payments made  in  respect  of  Category  (2) before the
Association shall have  approved  the  Subsidiary Credit Agreement
with SOFISEDIT, and if the  Borrower enters into Subsidiary Credit
Agreements  with  other  banking  institutions  acceptable  to the
Association,  before  the  Association  shall  have  approved  the
Subsidiary Credit Agreements with any such banking institutions;
     (d)  payments made  in  respect  of  Category  (8) before the
Association  shall  have  approved  the  restructuring  program of
ASACE; and
     (e)  payments made  in  respect  of  Category  (9) before the
Association shall  have  approved  the  restructuring  program for
CICES.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to facilitate the adjust-
ment of the industrial  sector  to  the new policy environment, to
support programs  of  assistance  for  displaced  employees and to
strengthen the institutions supporting the adjustment process.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.
1.   Making of Sub-loans  through  Participating Banks for Invest-
ment Projects in the industrial sector.
2.   Training of staff  members  of  BCEAO and Participating Banks
for the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B.
1.   Carrying out of a vocational training program.
2.   Formulation of operating  procedures  for  the Secretariat of
Employment.
3.   Making of loans  to  displaced  individuals of the industrial
sector for the carrying out of productive activities.
4.   Restructuring of ASACE to modernize its structure and stream-
line its procedures.
5.   Restructuring of  CICES  to  strengthen  its export marketing
activities and to enhance its interface with the private sector.
Part C.
1.   Setting up of a monitoring system of MDIA to track the imple-
mentation and assess the impact of industrial policy reforms.
2.   Design of specific industrial policy reforms by MDIA.
3.   Training (local and overseas)  for  staff of MDIA responsible
for the reform process.
4.   Acquisition of  vehicles  and  equipment,  including computer
equipment for MDIA.
5.   Carrying out  of  a  study  on  the  Borrower's environmental
issues (including pollution  control  and  occupational and health
safety) and legislation relating thereto.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
     Goods and vehicles shall  be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of  comparison  of  price quotations solicited from a
list of at least  three  suppliers  eligible under the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985  (the  Guidelines), in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  11
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
consultants shall be employed whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Part A:   Implementation of Part A.1 of the Project:
1.   Eligibility Criteria Investment Enterprises made for
     Investment Projects
     (a)  An incremental financial rate of return of not less than
          twelve percent (12%).
     (b)  An  economic  rate  of   return  of  ten  percent  (10%)
          calculated with the  internal  rate  of return method or
          any other method acceptable to the Association.
     (c)  A debt/equity  ratio  of  not  more  than 3:1, provided,
          however, that a higher ratio might be acceptable, if the
          Investment Enterprise presented  a financial rehabilita-
          tion plan  acceptable  to  the  Association which estab-
          lishes that a 3:1 debt/equity  ratio will be achieved in
          a reasonable time period.
     (d)  A liquidity ratio of at least 1.2.
     (e)  A debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3.
     Said ratios shall be calculated in a manner acceptable to the
Association, taking into account the Investment Enterprise's total
debt, including debt to  be  incurred  in connection with the pro-
posed Investment Project.
2.   Terms and Conditions of  the Investment Agreements, including
     the terms of the Sub-Loans
     (a)  Sub-Loans for  any  Investment  Project  may  not exceed
          eighty percent (80%) of  the  total cost of the proposed
          Investment Project nor a total of the equivalent of CFAF
          600 million.
     (b)  An interest rate of nine and one-half percent (9.5%) per
          annum or such other interest  rate as agreed upon by the
          Borrower and the Association.
     (c)  A maturity of  up  to  thirteen  years including a grace
          period of up to two years.
     (d)  A requirement that the Investment Enterprise shall carry
          out and operate  the  Investment  Project with due dili-
          gence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound
          technical, financial and  managerial standards and shall
          maintain adequate records and account.
     (e)  A requirement that:  (i)  the  goods  and services to be
          financed out of the  proceeds  of  the Sub-Loan shall be
          purchased at  a  reasonable  price,  in  conformity with
          normal commercial practices, account being taken also of
          other relevant  factors  such  as  time  of delivery and
          quality of  the  goods  and  availability of maintenance
          facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
          services, of their  quality  and  the  competence of the
          parties rendering them, provided,  however, that, if the
          estimated cost of a contract  for  goods is in excess of
Page  12
          the equivalent of $50,000, the contract shall be awarded
          on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
          from at least three  suppliers eligible under the Guide-
          lines; and (ii) such  goods  and  services shall be used
          exclusively  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  Investment
          Project.
     (f)  The  Association's  right  to   inspect,  by  itself  or
          jointly, with representatives  of the Participating Bank
          in question, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
          construction included  in  the  Investment  Project, the
          operation  thereof,   and   any   relevant  records  and
          documents.
     (g)  A requirement that: (i)  the Investment Enterprise shall
          take out  and  maintain  with  responsible insurers such
          insurance, against such  risks  and  in such amounts, as
          shall be consistent  with  sound  business practice; and
          (ii) without  any  limitation  upon  the foregoing, such
          insurance shall cover  hazards  incident to the acquisi-
          tion, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out
          of the proceeds of the  Sub-Loan  to the place of use or
          installation, any indemnity  thereunder  to be made pay-
          able in  a  currency  freely  usable  by  the Investment
          Enterprise to replace or repair such goods.
     (h)  Release of all  such  information  as  the Borrower, the
          Association, or the Participating Bank, shall reasonably
          request relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
          tion, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
          ment Enterprise and to  the  benefits to be derived from
          the Investment Project.
     (i)  The right of the Participating Bank to suspend or termi-
          nate the right of  the  Investment Enterprise to the use
          of the proceeds  of  the  Sub-Loan  upon failure by such
          Investment Enterprise to  perform  its obligations under
          the Investment Agreement.
Part B:   Implementation of Part B.3 of the Project:
1.   Eligibility Criteria for Activities to be Financed under
     Part B.3 of the Project
     (a)  A financial rate of return  of not less than ten percent
          (10%); and
     (b)  a projected debt service coverage exceeding 1.4.
          Such ratios shall be  calculated  in a manner acceptable
          to the Association.
2.   Terms and Conditions of Loans under Part B.3 of the Project
     (a)  An interest rate  of  eight  and one-half percent (8.5%)
          per annum or such other  interest rate as agreed upon by
          the Borrower and the  Association.
     (b)  A maturity of up to  six  years including a grace period
          of up to one year.
     (c)  Loans not to exceed  ninety  percent  (90%) of the total
          cost of the proposed investment to be financed.
     (d)  A requirement that:  (i)  the  goods  and services to be
          financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be pur-
          chased at a reasonable  price,  account being taken also
          of other relevant factors  such  as time of delivery and
          quality of  the  goods  and  availability of maintenance
          facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
          services, of their  quality  and  the  competence of the
          parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services
Page  13
          shall be used  exclusively  in  the  carrying out of the
          investment for which the Loan has been made.
     (e)  The  Association's  right  to   inspect,  by  itself  or
          jointly, with representatives  of  SOFISEDIT, or another
          banking institution acceptable  to the Association, such
          goods and the sites, works, plants and construction, the
          operation  thereof,   and   any   relevant  records  and
          documents.
     (f)  A requirement  that:  (i)  the  beneficiary  of the Loan
          shall take out  and  maintain  with responsible insurers
          such insurance, against such  risks and in such amounts,
          as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
          (ii) without  any  limitation  upon  the foregoing, such
          insurance shall cover  hazards  incident to the acquisi-
          tion, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out
          of the proceeds  of  the  Loan  to  the  place of use or
          installation, any indemnity  thereunder  to be made pay-
          able in a currency  freely  usable by the beneficiary to
          replace or repair such goods.
     (g)  Release of all  such  information  as  the Borrower, the
          Association, SOFISEDIT,  or  another banking institution
          acceptable to the  Association, shall reasonably request
          relating to  the  foregoing  and  to the administration,
          operations and  financial  condition  of the beneficiary
          and to the  benefits  to  be  derived from the envisaged
          investment.
     (h)  The right of  SOFISEDIT,  or another banking institution
          acceptable to the  Association,  to suspend or terminate
          the right of the Beneficiary  to the use of the proceeds
          of the Loan upon failure  by such beneficiary to perform
          its obligations under  the  agreement  providing for the
          Loan.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "Category"  means  any  of  the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible Categories" means:
          (i)  in respect of Special Account A, Categories (1) and
               (3);
         (ii)  in respect of Special Account B, Categories (2) and
               (7);
        (iii)  in respect of  Special  Account  C, Categories (5),
               (6), (8), (9) and (10); and
         (iv)  in respect of Special Account D, Category (4).
     (c)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (d)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
          (i)  an amount  of  CFAF  250  million  in  the  case of
               Special Account A;
Page  14
         (ii)  an amount of CFAF 32 million in the case of Special
               Account B;
        (iii)  an amount of CFAF 16 million in the case of Special
               Account C; and
         (iv)  an amount of CFAF 16 million in the case of Special
               Account D.
     Such amounts to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
each Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized  Allocation,  the  Association shall, on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit Account and
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of each Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special Accounts  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Accounts  with  amounts  not exceeding the
amount of payments made out  of the respective Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of any Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  any  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the  eligible  Categories minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount  of  the  total  amount  of  the  Authorized
               Allocations.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
Page  15
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of any  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into any
such Special Account  (or,  if  the  Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an  amount  equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association  into any Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  any  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
