Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18964-MOG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR8.9 MILLION
(US$12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO MONGOLIA
FOR THE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
May 3, 1999
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Effective 4/1/99
Currency Unit = LC
Togrogs 1.00 = US$0.0095
US$1 = Togrogs 1050
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
BELTAC        -      Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
BESAC         -      Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
BIS           -      Bank of International Settlements
BOM           -      Bank of Mongolia (Central Bank)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CIB           -      Credit Information Bureau
CWG           -      Counterpart Working Group
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FILs          -      Financial Intermediation Loans
FSPL          -      (ADB) Financial Sector Program Loan
GTZ           -      Gesselschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA           -      International Development Agency
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
JICA          -      (Japan) International Cooperation Agency
KfW           -      Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
MGS           -      Matching Grant Scheme
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MOU           -      Memorandum of Understanding
OECF          -      (Japan) Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PFIs          -      Participating Financial Institutions
PSDC          -      Private Sector Development Credit
RFP           -      Request for Proposals
SLA           -      Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOEs          -      State-Owned Enterprises
TA            -      Technical Assistance
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
Vice President:    Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:    Ngozi Okonjo-lweala, EACSM
Sector Manager:    Hoon Mok Chung, EASPS
Task Manager:      Amanda Carlier, EASPS



Page iii
MONGOLIA
Private Sector Development Credit
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................2
1.     Project development objectives ....................................................................2
B: Strategic Context .......                    .............................................................2
1.      Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ................                                 ........................2
2.      Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ....................................................................3
3.      Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ...............................................................8
C: Project Description Summary ....................................................................9
1.     Project components ...................................................................9
2.      Key Policy and Institutional Reforms supported by the Project ....................................................................9
3.      Benefits and Target Population ................................................................... 10
4.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .....................                              .............................................. 10
D: Project Rationale ....................................................................                                                                   11
1.  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection .11
2.   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank Group and/or other Development Agencies .12
3.  Lessons Learned and reflected in the Project Design .13
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .13
5. Value added of Bank Group Support in this Project .14
E: Summary Project Analysis ......................                                                                                                          14
1. Economic.14
2.  Financial.14
3.  Technical.14
4. Institutional Assessment .14
5. Environmental Assessment .15
F: Sustainability and Risks ...................................................................                                                             15
1.     Sustainability .......              ............................................................. 15
2.      Critical Risks .......             ............................................................. 16
3.      Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................... 16
G. Main Loan Conditions ...................................................................                                                                 16
Effectiveness Conditions ...................................................................  16
H. Readiness for Implementation ...................................................................                                                         17
I: Compliance with Bank Group Policies ...................................................................                                                  17
Annex  1 a: Project Design Summary ................................................................... 18
Annex  lb: Key Performance Indicators ...................................................................                                           19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description ...................................................................                                           21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs ...................................................................                                                36
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ...................................................................                                          36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities ................................................................ 36
Annex 6: Procurement, Disbursement and financial management systems Arrangements ............                                           .................. 37
Annex 7: Project Implementation Plan .................................................................... 44
Annex 8: Eligibility Criteria for PFIs ....................................................................                                         46
Annex 9: Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................................................................                                49
Annex  10: Documents in the Project File .................................................................... 50



Page iv
Annex  11: Status of Bank Group Operations in Mongolia ......................................... 51
Annex 12: Mongolia at a Glance .........................................                                                                            52



Mongolia,
Private Sector Development Credit
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Southeast Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
Date: April 25, 1999                                  Task Manager: Amanda Carlier
Country Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala                 Sector Manager: Hoon Mok Chung
Project ID: MN-PE-49789   Sector: Private, Banking    Program Objective Category: I
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediation Loan     Program of Targeted Intervention:   [xl Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data                   [] Loan      [x ] Credit     [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ M/SDR M): US$12.0 million
Proposed terms:                        []       Multicurrency    [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []   .  Standard Variable  [ ] Fixed         [      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ M): US$15.35
Source                                                      Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                                       0.115              -               0.115
PFIs                                                             0.2                -               0.2
Sub-borrowers (Private Enterprises)                              2.0               -                2.0
IDA                                                              -                12.0             12.0
Other (Trust Fund)
Total           2.315            12.00            14.315
Borrower: Mongolia
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance, Bank of Mongolia
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ M):                 2000      2001       2002       2003
Annual                2.0       3.5        4.0         2.5
Cumulative               2.0        5.5       9.5        12.0
Project implementation period: 3 years. Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/99. Expected closing date: 02/28/2003



Page 2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives
The proposed Project would be part of a broader program of donor assistance to support the development of
Mongolia's private enterprise and financial sectors. It would complement technical assistance for commercial
banks being provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), USAID and Kreditanstalt fMr Wiederaufbau
(KfW)/GTZ. It would also complement Technical Assistance (TA) for enterprise restructuring and capacity
building being provided by USAID, EU Tacis and UNDP. This project is, in part, a follow-up to International
Development Agency's (IDA) Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) and Banking,
Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC).
The main objectives of the proposed Private Sector Development Credit are:
*  to support the Borrower's efforts to promote private sector development
*  to strengthen the institutional capacity of the banking sector.
In particular, the project will: (a) promote private sector development by increasing the availability of
commercial bank term loans to private enterprises; and (b) increase the institutional capacity of participating
banks by strengthening their financial intermediation function and resource allocation capabilities, and; (c)
increase the institutional capacity of the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) by improving its bank supervision function.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
CAS document number: 17604-MOG; date of latest CAS discussion: June 6, 1998.
Mongolia's overriding challenge is to lift its 36 percent poor above the poverty line. In policy terms, this
means: (a) creating a framework for private sector-led growth; (b) targeting poor households more effectively
to promote greater equity in development; and (c) managing resources strategically. The Government aims to
halve the number of poor households by early next century. To do so, Mongolia has to grow 5-6 percent per
year, and provide jobs for its 150,000 unemployed and for the 100,000 projected new entrants into the labor
force. Achieving 5-6 percent growth requires macroeconomic stability and creating better incentives for
private sector development. It also calls for continuous structural reforms in the public finance, banking and
corporate sectors. Investing in people and building technical skills are concomitant measures needed to
achieve this goal.
The World Bank CAS supports the Government's growth-oriented development program with a four-pronged
approach: (a) supporting macroeconomic stabilization, (b) facilitating private sector development; (c) investing
in infrastructure; and (d) promoting greater equity in development. In addition the CAS emphasizes closer
coordination with International Monetary Fund (IMF), ADB and other donors to leverage resources and
expertise and maximize the impact of IDA's interventions. Within the strategic context of the CAS, the
proposed project will seek to provide term finance to private enterprises and institutional and human resource
development support to private entrepreneurs and commercial banks. It is closely linked with the activities
financed by other donors, as well as by IDA, in the areas of macroeconomic stabilization (IMF), privatization
and corporate restructuring (USAID, UNDP), entrepreneurial development (GTZ, EU), and financial sector
strengthening (ADB, KfW, GTZ). The proposed project reflects the main objectives of the CAS and is an
important instrument for the realization of these objectives.



Page 3
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
(a) Recent economic and political developments.
An ambitious economic reform program was launched by the government elected in June 1996 to complete the
transition into a market economy. The reform strategy comprises three key elements: establishing
macroeconomic stability, reducing the size of the state sector, and fostering private sector development. While
this program has been continuously pursued since 1996, its implementation has, at times, been slowed or
stalled by political events which have witnessed the formation of three governments by the Democratic
Coalition since it came to power in 1996. As part of this program, important steps have been taken to
liberalize and stabilize the economy, continue the enterprise privatization process, and reorganize the banking
sector. Prices and wages have been liberalized, import tariffs (excluding tobacco, alcohol and luxury goods)
have been abolished, and the exchange rate is market-determined. Visible success has also been achieved on
the macroeconomic front, which is moving to create a conducive environment for private sector development.
Tight monetary policy forced down CPI inflation. At end- 1997 it dipped below 20 percent, down from over
50 percent as recent as June 1997 and well ahead of ESAF targets. Real GDP for 1997 reached 4 percent.
Economic conditions deteriorated in 1998, as the Asian and Russian crises deepened, and export prices,
especially copper, dropped. Despite increased volumes of copper and gold exports, the value of total exports
declined by 17.5 percent in 1998. Imports surged, spurred by the decline in external import prices (as a result
of the sharp devaluation of many East Asian currencies), the elimination of virtually all import duties, higher
domestic incomes in US dollar terms, and a large expansion in short-term capital inflows. The current account
swung from a small surplus in 1997 to a deficit of 12 percent of GDP in 1998. With the deterioration in the
external balance, the exchange rate came under downward pressure, which the authorities initially resisted by
intervening in the foreign exchange market. The Bank of Mongolia has focused on meeting the inflation
target, by limiting the devaluation of the Togrog to 5 percent and by maintaining a tight monetary policy. As a
result, inflation has continued to decelerate, but the real effective exchange rate has depreciated from Togrog
855 per $1 at end-September to Togrog 915 per $1 at end-December 1998.
Given the severity of the external shocks and political crises, macroeconomic performance in 1998 was
surprisingly resilient. Real GDP growth slowed only modestly, to 3.5 percent, and inflationary pressures
continued to abate-consumer prices increased by just 6 percent in the year to December 1998. During the
first eight months of the year, industrial output increased 4.4 percent in real terms, on the strength of a 12
percent expansion in the manufacturing sector. Value added in mining and in electricity each were up only
about 1 percent. The transport sector registered its highest level of activity in five years, as total goods
transported rose more than 12 percent, partly reflecting a pronounced increase in the quantum of imports. The
Bank of Mongolia (BOM) has pursued a tight monetary policy during 1998.
(b) Banking sector.
The Mongolian financial system underwent a major restructuring in December 1996 to eliminate insolvencies
in the banking system, restore confidence, and halt dis-intermediation that had resulted from non-performing
loans, inadequate management, and weak supervision. Important steps were taken in the face of the 1996
banking crisis to reorganize the banking sector. In December 1996, two large, insolvent and unviable banks
were liquidated, and a Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency was established with funding from Government to
purchase the assets of the two liquidated banks. The liabilities and the performing assets of these insolvent
banks were transferred to two new institutions: the Savings Bank (which inherited all household deposits), and
the Reconstruction Bank (which inherited all non-household performing claims). Most non-performing
inherited and directed loans that were removed from commercial banks' balance sheets were replaced by
interest-bearing govemment bonds. A central register of defaulting borrowers (Credit Information Bureau)
was also established, and all commercial banks were forbidden from extending new credit to defaulting



Page 4
borrowers. In addition, banks were required to adopt vigorous loan recovery measures, and recently they have
set up loan work-out units.
Despite these measures, the banking system is not yet stable, with many banks failing to meet BOM prudential
requirements. At the same time the BOM lacks supervisory expertise. The level of financial intermediation
remains low. The ratio of total bank assets to GDP fell to 20.5 percent, compared to 26 percent in 1997, and
about 30 percent in 1996. Bank loans to the private sector amounted to about 53 percent of the net domestic
assets of the banking system, down from 76.5 percent in 1997, due to the large expansion of bank credit to the
Government in 1998. At the end of 1998, 44.2 percent of bank loans was denominated in foreign currency, up
from 30.4 percent in December 1997, as a result of the decline in the average interest rate on foreign currency
loans relative to that on domestic currency loans.
Sixteen commercial banks are currently licensed, despite the small size of the economy and the limited
supervisory capacity of the BOM. Four banks-Trade and Development Bank (TDB), Savings Bank, Golomt
Bank and ITI Bank-account for 77 percent of banking system assets. The Savings Bank is the second largest
bank, but its assets consist almost exclusively of government bonds. Of the remaining 12 banks, the
Reconstruction Bank and Agriculture Bank are of medium-size (7 and 4 percent, respectively, of bank system
assets) but highly insolvent. The other 10 banks are tiny in comparison, and little intermediation takes place
through them. The Government has direct and indirect participation in eight banks. Three of the four largest
banks (TDB, Reconstruction Bank, and Savings Bank) are majority or fully owned by the government; they
hold 63 percent of total assets. The other five banks, with minority government ownership, account for 21
percent of total assets. The eight privately owned banks account for 16 percent of banking system assets, of
which Golomt Bank accounts for 11.5 percent.
Management of the commercial banks tends to be weak, internal controls are poor, and accounting standards
are inadequate. With the passage of time and deterioration in the external environment, the weaknesses in the
banking system became increasingly evident. During 1998, non-performing loans (NPL) of the banking
system increased from 30 percent of total to 40 percent by year end. Three large banks became illiquid and
deeply insolvent (R&D Bank, Agriculture Bank and ITI Bank). One of the most visible thermometers of the
current state of the financial sector is the large spread between the nominal interest rates of the commercial
banks, reflecting to a great extent the distortions created by the insolvent banks-their costs of funds and the
system wide NPLs. Government borrowings to cover the budget deficit also raises the cost of commercial
credit. By late 1998, while commercial banks were paying 6-30 percent on domestic deposits, on-lending rates
ranged from 36-72 percent for short-term domestic credit -all in a regime where inflation fell to about 6
percent at year end.
Few altematives to the banking system have developed: the stock market is highly illiquid, and insurance and
leasing businesses are embryonic. There thus remain large impediments to an efficiently functioning banking
system and financial intermediation continues to be stifled. Mongolian banks are unable to provide long-term
finance. The current bank credit structure is such that more than 95 percent of loans have maturities of less
than one year. A high-risk environment and the existence of supply constraints- relating both to lack of
availability of funds as well as weak institutional capacity- explain why Mongolian banks have not engaged
in term finance. Mongolian commercial banks perceive lending to be a high risk activity because of the large
number of defaulters, and because relationships between borrowers and lenders are still very young. However,
the economy is moving in the right direction and significant progress has been made in creating a more
conducive environment for private sector development.
In the last quarter of 1998, the Government adopted measures to improve banking sector performance. In
September 1998, the Banking Law was amended, significantly strengthening the regulatory framework for
banks. The minimum capital requirement was raised from Togrog 400 million to 1 billion, effective Septemiber



Page 5
1999. The higher minimum capital requirement is expected to bring about a consolidation of the banking-
system-currently, 7 banks do not meet the new requirement. The amended Banking Law also now empowers
the BOM to ensure improved bank governance (individuals of doubtful character can be prohibited from
holding managerial and board positions and the BOM can convene shareholders' meetings). In addition, the
amended Banking Law also substantially improved financial disclosure requirements. It establishes the legal
basis for bank audit standards; financial reporting by banks is made explicit, and publication of misleading
information is prohibited.
At the same time, the BOM took measures to strengthen prudential norms and its supervisory tools. In the area
of loan classification, automatic loan rescheduling for defaulting borrowers has been proscribed. Definitions
have been tightened to ensure proper classification of overdue loans and prevent banks from accepting
nonmarketable and unsaleable fixed assets in lieu of nonpayment of loans. A new sector wide accounting
standard, developed with the assistance of ADB, became effective in January 1999. Balance sheet disclosure
standards have been improved, and bank reporting to the BOM is now required monthly instead of quarterly.
Banks are now required not only to adhere to prudential norms, but utilize proper risk management tools.
Liquidation criteria have been made more explicit, and now include negative net worth as a condition for
closure and liquidation. In addition, the BOM issued guidelines for licensing audit firms. In September 1998,
the BOM withdrew the licenses of two small, insolvent banks. (The section on Government Strategy below
discusses the 1999-2001 economic reform program.)
Table 1: Relative Size of the Two PFI's and Compliance with Prudential Norms
(January 1999, in Percentages)
TDB       Golomt      Total PFIs   Bank System
Total Assets                                                  37.5          9.5         47.0          100.0
Total Loans                                                   37.7          6.9         44.6          100.0
Deposits                                                      33.2          8.0         41.2          100.0
Capital                                                      107.7         42.2        149.9          100.0
Memo: Performing loans                                        89.7         93.3         90.3           59.6
Capital Adequacy (>1 0%)                                      13.9         21.2         17.7           -0.1
Reserve Requirement (>14%)                                    21.3         17.9         19.6           12.2
Liquidity Requirement (>18%)                                  54.4         54.5         54.4           28.7
Foreign Currency Exposure (+/-20%) a/                         18.3         17.9         18.1        -297.5
Single Borrower Exposure (20%) (# of cases)                      1           2             3            b/
Loan Loss Provisions (% of required) c/                      522.0        114.7        459.0          -18.8
Insider lending (5 %  to one insider; 20 % to all insiders) (# of  0          0            0            bi
cases)
Source: BOM and Bank staff calculations.
a The negative ratio for the system as a whole reflects the negative capital position of the system.
b/ The capital position of the bank system is negative.
c/ One percent of the sum of ordinary loans and principal in arrears, plus 25% of substandard loans, plus 50% of doubtful loans,
plus 100% of loans in default.
Participating Financial Institutions
The Trade and Development Bank (TDB) and the Golomt Bank have been selected as participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs) for the PSDC. These two banks stand head and shoulders above the rest of the banking
system by any measure. In particular, they have a satisfactory level of the loans/deposits ratio, and a much
higher ratio of performing loans - the performing loans of the two PFIs amount to just over 90 percent of total



Page 6
loans compared to about 60 percent for the total banking sector as of January 31, 1999. The two potential PFIs-
are also the most dynamic banks in recent years, accounting for two thirds of all performing loans in the
banking system.
(c) Enterprise sector.
Despite the increase in private ownership following voucher privatization in 1991-94, cash privatization from
1996 and the proliferation of greenfield private entities, Mongolia's private enterprises face numerous
constraints. Foremost is the lack of affordable formal credit or other financial services, particularly from
banks, and the limited reach of non-banks such as leasing and insurance companies, the shallowness of capital
markets and the lack of institutional investors or other forms of venture capital. In rural areas, where credit
facilities are almost non-existent, small and medium enterprises lack both investment and working capital.
Further constraints to private sector development include: limited infrastructure which blocks domestic
marketing channels and integration with international markets; lack of utility infrastructure; a weak legal and
judicial framework for property rights, contract enforcement, insolvency, collateralization and execution of
judgments; weak governance structures, and shortages of managerial, strategic planning, marketing and
financial skills. Increased FDI could alleviate some of these constraints. Realistically, however, medium-term
FDI increases are expected to be gradual, particularly in light of the East Asian financial crisis. Significant
increases will occur with further structural and macroeconomic reforms, and rehabilitation of infrastructure.
A World Bank-funded survey found that virtually all Mongolian entrepreneurs (96 percent) cited the lack of
long-term financing, and to a lesser extent (65 percent) inadequate short-termn working capital facilities, as the
main constraints to their operation. The credit squeeze is best reflected in the almost absence of bank loans on
the balance sheet of Mongolian enterprises. Private entrepreneurs face particular difficulties in securing startup
and working capital due to high commercial bank interest rates and lack of alternative sources of domestic
capital. High nominal rates of interest, and until recently, an inflationary environment, have inhibited the
development of long-term finance in Mongolia. At present, access to long-term credit is virtually nonexistent.
Moreover, Mongolia's stock market is unable to effectively mobilize capital for private enterprises, from
individual investors through the Stock Exchange or from institutional investors such as pension funds. Public
share offerings are not yet seen as a means of mobilizing capital.
Mongolian enterprises, in general, exhibit good technical/engineering knowledge of their industry but lack
clear financial skills. They lack the ability to properly develop business and strategic plans based on cash flow
projections. They lack accounting skills that makes their balance sheet and income statements unclear and
unreliable. In addition, they lack marketing and promotion skills that limit their ability to sell their products
internally and export to foreign markets. The weak entrepreneurial skills of Mongolian enterprises has limited
the number of bankable project proposals submitted to commercial banks and to potential foreign joint venture
partners. There is therefore a clear need to strengthen entrepreneurial business skills, especially with respect to
developing bankable project proposals in the context of the proposed line of credit.
(d) Government Strategy.
The Government has embarked on a strong adjustment program to maintain inflation below 10 percent, to
promote sustained output growth of about 4 percent, and to strengthen Mongolia's external position through
both a reduction in the current account deficit and a replenishment in the monetary authorities' net external
asset position. This program will be supported by the IMF ESAF. Central to the achievement of these
objectives is the implementation of a fiscal policy package designed to reduce the overall deficit of the General
Government. This fiscal policy package, presented to Parliament in April 1999, includes measures to increase
Government revenue by 2 percent of GDP and reduce its spending by about I percent of GDP on an annual
basis, so as to eliminate net bank credit to the Government by 2000, averting a resurgence of inflationary



Page 7
pressures and freeing-up additional resources for private sector development. At the same time, the adoption-
of a flexible exchange rate policy will facilitate an efficient adjustment to the huge terms of trade, while the
maintenance of a prudent monetary policy stance will help contain inflationary pressures emanating from the
external shock and domestic relative price adjustments.
In addition to these macroeconomic policy measures, the Government recognizes that its strategy for private
sector-led growth also must be built on the foundation of a solvent and viable banking system. Decisive
measures are therefore needed to arrest the recent deterioration in the financial conditions of commercial
banks. To this end, a comprehensive strategy for banking reform has been adopted in collaboration with the
IMF, the ADB, the World Bank, and the USAID. The strategy addresses two major issues currently
confronting the banking system: the insolvency of three major commercial banks and the systemic problems
which are hindering effective financial intermediation. The reforms to correct these problems will be guided
by four principles: (i) the need for a substantial reduction in state ownership of commercial banks through
privatization; (ii) the need to strictly contain the use of public funds for banking sector restructuring; (iii) the
need to enhance the enforcement of prudential norms by the BOM; and (iv) the need to strengthen the legal,
policy, and supervisory framework to enhance efficiency in the allocation of resources by promoting good
corporate governance, transparency, and market discipline in the banking system.
To resolve the insolvency of three major commercial banks, the BOM and the government are implementing a
comprehensive, time-bound action plan. In the first phase, conservators and full-time bank restructuring
advisors will be appointed to halt a further deterioration in the financial position of the three insolvent banks.
In the second phase, plans for operational restructuring will be implemented by the conservators and advisors,
including closures of branches, reductions in overhead and current expenditures, and restriction of the
expansion in liabilities and loan portfolios of the banks. In the final phase, decisions will be taken to deal with
the three banks through recapitalization privatization or liquidation.] Implementation of the restructuring plan
will be overseen by a High Level Steering Committee, with operational support from a technical Restructuring
Working Group. Any closure of Agriculture Bank branches will take place simultaneously with the
implementation of new mechanisms of rural finance. A wide range of additional actions are also planned for
1999 and beyond to help ensure that bank restructuring proceeds in a transparent and sound manner, and that
the systemic banking problems are addressed in line with the general principles mentioned above, including
bringing Trade and Development Bank to the point of sale.
The Government intends to prepare a longer-term strategy for reform and development of the financial sector
with assistance from the World Bank. The areas covered by the strategy will include further actions to reform
the banking sector (including restructuring or privatization of ailing banks not covered under the IMF or ADB
programs), policy reforms to enhance efficiency in the banking sector, legal and institutional reforms to deal
with non-repayment of bank loans (including reform of MARA), provision of financial services to rural areas
through viable and sustainable institutions, deepening of reforms for the regulation of nonbank intermediaries,
and financial sector policy reform to diversify sources of investment and income with an open capital account.
The state-owned enterprise sector continues to face financial problems stemming from poor management and
low efficiency. Under the Government's strategy, a comprehensive list covering almost all state-owned
enterprises and immovable assets was announced for privatization by 2000. Privatization procedures were
simplified and sales techniques were broadened to include the abolition of the book-value-based minimum
price system, and the concentration of ownership of large enterprises was permitted to improve corporate
governance and enhance market discipline. Privatization has proceeded rapidly, and total receipts during
1997-98 were considerably higher than originally expected.
1 In order to limit financial costs borne by the public sector, government funds for recapitalization will be provided only ire the
event of privatization, up to an amount which will bring the bank's net worth to zero.



Page 8
With sales of small enterprises and immovable assets largely completed, privatization policy is now entering a
new phase focusing on the sale of large and strategically important enterprises, including key enterprises in the
agro-processing, transport, telecommunications, mining, and energy sectors. Privatization activity during 1999
is scheduled to include the sale of two strategic enterprises (the Gobi Cashmere Factory and the Petroleum
Import Concern) and two state-owned banks in addition to other smaller enterprises and assets. Preparatory
work, including audit and restructuring, will be accelerated for privatization of the remaining strategic
enterprises, with a view to divesting 10142 of them over the next three years. Internationally accepted
accounting standards will be applied to all large enterprises to provide investors with better information on
their financial position. The Government will continue to pursue an open privatization policy to attract foreign
investors, as their participation is essential not only for capital infusion but also for transfer of managerial
skills and technology. The Government also intends to simplify application, licensing and taxation procedures,
to further encourage foreign investment.
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
Economic growth is central to the Government's strategy of increasing employment and reducing poverty. In
this regard, Mongolia's incipient private sector must take the lead in the country's growth effort. Private
entrepreneurs, in particular the newly privatized entities, are burdened with historical debt, outdated
technology and failing markets. To survive, private enterprises require new investments as well as funds for
restructuring and upgrading. However, at present, Mongolian banks are unable to provide these funds, and, as
a result, the whole system has come to a virtual standstill. By providing assistance to private entrepreneurs
and by supporting the financial intermediation process, this project aims to increase economic growth through
increased income-generating capacity of private enterprises.
Financial intermediation loans (FILs) transfer financial resources to commercial banks. Resource transfer can
be justified only when market failures are identified. Similarly, assistance to foster institutional capacity can
be justified when insufficient domestic mechanisms exist that can generate satisfactory increases of
institutional capacity within a reasonable time. At present, both market failures and insufficient institutional
capacity are major impediments for the growth and development of the private sector. The proposed project
will thus address the problem of the lack of term finance by removing supply constraints caused by the weak
institutional capacity of commercial banks and their difficulties in long term funding. By promoting
interaction between borrowers and banks, the project will facilitate the transfer of financial resources to
economically sound projects which otherwise would not have been financed through existing mechanisms.



Page 9
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed project description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
Component                Total Cost     GOM/PFI/private enterprise   IDA Financing
(USS million)           Financing             (US$ million)
Line of Credit                        12.0                    2.0                   10.0
Technical Assistance                 2.315                  .315                     2.0
BOM:                                 0.45                   0.075                  0.375
MOF/CWG:                              0.24                   0.040                   0.2
Participating Financial               1.2                     0.2                    1.0
Intermediaries (PFIs)
Unallocated
-for future PFIs                  0.3                                            0.3
-general                         0.125                     -                    0.125
Total                                14.315                  2.315                  12.0
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms supported by the Project
The main objective of the Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC) is to assist the GOM in its efforts to
develop private sector enterprises. In particular, the project will help make available medium and long term
commercial finance for private sector investment and strengthen the capacity of participating financial
institutions to on-lend term finance. The commercial finance will enable higher investment aimed at
restructuring and increasing the income-generating capacity of private enterprises and strengthen
entrepreneurial skills.
The proposed project, through the technical assistance to the PFIs, will provide on-the-job training to credit
officers and bank managers for the full project cycle, from project identification and credit/risk analysis to
asset-liability management and loan repayment recovery. Particular emphasis will be placed on providing TA
that will strengthen credit management within banks and the overall credit culture surrounding commercial
bank lending. In this regard, TA will be provided to the CIB, of BOM, to improve its information gathering
and dissemination abilities.
The proposed project will indirectly interact with other key policy and institutional reforms. Given the critical
importance of macroeconomic stability for sustainability of financial sector reforms and efficiency of the
sector performance, IDA considers FILs only in the context of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. The
presence of an ESAF program in Mongolia indicates that the country will abide by and implement a strict
stabilization program. Similarly, progress in banking reform relies heavily on the existence of a transparent
legal framework in the areas of property rights, entry and exit of businesses, competition and dispute
settlement. Formal sector economic activity requires not only clear rules and procedures in these areas, but
effective enforcement by institutions equipped in human and material terms to discharge their responsibilities.
In the banking sector, laws and procedures governing the protection of security interests, loan collection,
contract enforcement and bankruptcy procedures serve to collectively increase the transaction costs and risk
associated with lending and thereby limit the amount of credit extended to private enterprises by commercial



Page 10
banks. In this respect, the realization of the legal reforms envisaged under BELTAC constitutes a crucial
precondition to create an enabling environment for a sound implementation of the proposed project.
3. Benefits and Target Population
The main direct benefits of this project will derive from the creation of a market for medium and long term
loans for private sector enterprises. The creation of this medium-long term credit market will allow the
transfer of financial resources for sound economic initiatives which otherwise would not be financed through
the existent resource allocation mechanism. The target group for the line of credit are all eligible private sector
enterprises. The largest borrowers will likely be the newly privatized small- and medium-size manufacturing
enterprises, as they form the backbone of Mongolia's industrial sector and their development will greatly
contribute to the overall growth of the economy. Service sectors firms, especially in tourism, are also expected
to be beneficiaries under the credit line. The TA sub-component for PFIs will help to improve the institutional
capacity of the PFIs, in all areas of commercial banking, with special emphasis on developing a higher credit
culture (encouraging PFIs in term lending and applying project-based evaluation techniques). The emergence
of banks that have competence to support business activities will greatly improve the environment for private
sector development. Participation in the IDA program will also provide public information concerning the
quality of banks in Mongolia. There will also be benefits to the BOM in regulating and supervising
commercial banks. Main targets of the project are therefore medium and long term borrowers (private
entrepreneurs), PFIs, and BOM.
As PFIs bear the risk of failed loans, borrowers must be forced to generate more rigorous project analyses than
is the current practice. The ability of enterprises to prepare such applications is underdeveloped as modem
business skills of the type necessary for producing credible credit applications have only been pertinent since
1991. Moreover, many of the potential candidates for loans are recently privatized state enterprises that still
exhibit many of their old characteristics. TA programs sponsored by other donors, such as USAID2, to
provide entrepreneurial level technical assistance to, inter alia, help these enterprises to develop bankable
projects will complement the PSDC project and enhance the demand for the line of credit.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
(see Annex 7for the Project Implementation Plan)
Project coordination will be provided by a Counterpart Working Group (CWG) with the assistance of a full-
time local project coordinator. The CWG will comprise representatives of Ministry of Finance (MOF), BOM
and a private sector representative from the Mongolian Employers Federation. Staff at both MOF and BOM
are familiar with IDA accounting/auditing standards and reporting requirements. The project will nevertheless
provide assistance to the CWG by financing a project coordinator to, inter alia, facilitate the maintenance of
proper financial management systems and to help ensure that project-related accounting and disbursement
activities are carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with IDA procedures. The CWG will be responsible
for the overall project coordination and implementation, as well as for the execution of the CWG technical
assistance. The CWG, based on information provided by BOM, will monitor the PFIs' continued eligibility
for the intermediation of the credit line resources. For the line of credit, IDA, with information submitted by
the Borrower, will review the first five sub-projects submitted from each PFI independent of the amount for
the first five sub-projects from each PFI, as well as any other sub-project over US$350,000. The PFIs will be
responsible for managing their own TA needs financed by the Credit.
2 The US Investment and Business Development Project for the Mongolia private sector, will, inter alia, help entrepreneurs
through electronic connections develop and refine their business proposals. This project will also sponsor exploratory study
trips to the USA for selected Mongolian entrepreneurs.



Page 1 1
The CWG, assisted by a local project coordinator, will provide periodic project status reports that include
annual audited financial statements that give an assessment of the projects' financial status; quarterly project
progress reports that give a status update of the PFIs' and sub-borrowers' performance for the line of credit
component; and implementation progress for the technical assistance components.  In addition, PFIs will
submit to IDA their audited annual financial reports, no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(i.e. by 30 June).
The following agreements and documents are required to implement the project: Development Credit
Agreement between Mongolia and IDA, Project Agreement between IDA and the two pre-identified PFIs, the
Financial Agreement between MOF and BOM and between MOF and each PFI for the TA component, and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between MOF and the PFIs for the on-lending component. The IDA credit
agreement sets out the terms and conditions of the PSDC between IDA and GOM, while the IDA project
agreement sets out the same between IDA and the PFIs. The MOF/PFIs financing agreement sets out the roles
and responsibility of MOF and each of the PFIs in respect of the PFIs TA project component. The MOF/BOM
financing agreement sets out the roles and responsibilities of MOF and BOM as counterpart implementing
agents of the project. The subsidiary loan agreement is the agreement which sets out the terms and conditions
of borrowing between the Ministry of Finance and the qualified PFIs. PFIs will also sign Sub-loan
Agreements with sub-borrowers under the credit line. The entire project is expected to be implemented over a
three-year period.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and ReasonsforRejection
Project alternatives considered included support for the privatization process, including the provision of funds
for technical advice on privatization and regulatory reform issues, support for the private sector, including the
establishment of an equity capital facility that would assist in the mobilization of resources from private
investors to small and medium size enterprises, support for enterprise specific issues, and support to state
owned enterprises (SOEs) that are not slated for privatization to improve efficiency in the key sectors. It was
decided not to focus on support for privatization process in this project, as other agencies and donors are
actively providing support on a grant basis. Support for ongoing SOEs was also rejected as there is already
donor activity in this sector, and because such support would divert resources away from the Government
policy objective to pursue private sector-led growth. Instead, IDA will play a leading role in providing advice
and refining the Government's privatization and private sector development strategy.
The project also considered larger TA programs for the banking sector as a whole, introducing twinning
programs for several commercial banks and substantially more TA to the BOM. However, given the large
presence of the ADB in the financial sector, especially their ongoing Financial Sector Program Loan and their
ongoing TA to the BOM, it was decided to limit the project's focus to banking support that directly relate to
the line of credit. The possibility of providing technical assistance directly for entrepreneurs, such as through
a matching grants scheme, was also discussed in detail with the GOM, various professional business
associations and other donors. However, given the number of donor-sponsored initiatives in this area either
under-way or planned (such as ILO and EU Tacis support for business associations providing business
services, and the US Investment and Business Development Project), compared to the size of the Mongolia
private sector, further support in this area was not considered to be necessary or efficient.
A World Bank-funded survey found that virtually all Mongolian entrepreneurs (96 percent) cited the lack of
long-term financing as the major constraint expanding their operations. In the last few years, good progress
has been made in liberalizing trade, improving the macro-economic environment, and generally in improving
the operating environment for private entrepreneurs. The most significant constraint to private sector



Page 12
development that now remains is the lack of formal affordable term credit.  At present there is effectively no
term lending market (loans with maturities of more than one year) in Mongolia. While there is a term lending
facility available through the KfW credit line, its eligibility criteria is restricted to SMEs (with less than 150
employees), that are export oriented (although some exceptions have been made), and the sub-loan size limited
to about US$300,000. Also, unlike the proposed PSDC, the KfW credit line interest rate structure is not
market determined. The strong demand for the KfW line, despite its relatively restrictive nature, confirms the
term credit demand from the private sector. 3 Moreover, KfW has found that most of the sub-projects
presented to date have been of good quality (they have only rejected one); and it comments that the problems
lie more with the presentation and the appraisal, rather than the overall concept or quality of the sub-project
itself.
In sum, based on the above rationale, the proposed PSDC project is designed to target the key restraint faced
by private firms, and to complement rather than compete with other donor activities by fulfilling a void in the
combined donor and governmental activities designed to promote private sector development as the catalyst to
growth.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank Group and/or other Development Agencies
Sector/Issue                                     Project            I Implementation Progress
Bank Group-financed                                          _                              
*   Banking sector reform                                    Banking and Enterprise Sector  Closed 12/98. ICR under
An earlier IDA credit to support reforms in the banking sector via  Adjustment Credit (BESAC) ($10   preparation. Last Supervision
BESAC closed at the end of 1998. BESAC was the first in series of  million)                 (11/98)
IDA operations designed to support the Government reform program by                         Satisfactory (Form 590)
focusing on the nexus between banking and enterprise reforms. BESAC
supported, inter alia, commercial bank efforts in loan recovery, and debt
workout.
* b) Related legal infrastructure reform
IDA is also supporting reforms to the legal and regulatory infrastructure  Banking and Enterprise and Legal  Latest supervision (11/98)
that underpin the banking sector. BELTAC, a parallel technical  Technical Assistance Credit  Satisfactory (Form 590)
assistance operation, is contributing to development of a collateral  (BELTAC) ($2million)
regime, more transparent bankruptcy, liquidation and debt recovery
procedures, and above all, effective enforcement of court judgments.
Other Development Agencies
ADB Financial Sector Program Loan to improve information reporting   ADB FSPL, approved in   Program scheduled to end in
and accounting framework of BOM and commercial banks, and to assist December 1996 ($35 million)  December 1999
in the bank restructuring program.
ADB TA Loan to upgrade skills and systems of commercial banks  ADB TA Loan (S3 million)     On-going, Expected completion
l__________________________ _  | j_ Iin December 1999
ADB TA to the Supervision Department of the BOM              A   TA Grant (SI million)       Almost fully disbursed
ADB TA Loan to provide long-term advisors to Agriculture bank, ITIB, ADB TA Loan ($100,000)  Almost fully disbursed
Reconstruction Bank and Savings Bank
KfW line of credit to support export-oriented small and medium sized   Line of credit (DM  10 million)  About DM 3 million
enterprises through TDB and ITIB.                           l                              l disbursements as of late 1998
KfW Technical assistance to fund audits of ITIB and TDB and training   Audits of ITIB and TDB and  TDB audit completed.
seminars in effective project appraisal.                     training in effective project
appraisal (DM 800,000)
GTZ Technical assistance to fund improvements in Agriculture Bank.   TA for Agriculture Bank. (DM 3  l On-going
3 As of late 1998, KfW reported very strong demand for their line of credit. Each of their PFIs - TDB and ITI Bank had
received about 60 credit applications, of which 12 had been passed on to KfW. So far KfW have agreed to 10 of these
applications in the following sectors: meat/slaughter industry or related (3); textile /cashmere (2); wood /furniture (2); printing
(1); food /beverage (1). Only one application has been rejected by KfW. Five projects have been disbursed (about 30 percent of
the whole program).



Page 13
million)
Sector/Issue                                  Project            Implementaton Progress
Other Development Agencies
USAID Investment and Business Development Project         TA for entrepreneurs.        On-going.
($1 million) Initiated in 1999.  Expected completion: end-2000
USAID Umbrella Economic support Project-Bank Restructuring  TA for Bank Restructuring and  Expected completion: end- 1999
component                                                 Privatization
($1.3 million) Initiated in 1999
Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is conducting a large   On-going         Expected completion in 03/99
industrial sector survey that will produce a pipeline of subprojects that
could potentially be funded under PSDC.
Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) is considering a   Planned             Expected to begin 08/99
long-term credit line to help export-oriented industries obtain term
finance.
3. Lessons Learned and reflected in the Project Design
IDA evaluations of private sector development operations highlight three areas which have determined project
success or failure. These are: borrower ownership, reflected in high-level political commitment, and working-
level institutional readiness; simplicity ofproject design, that is, not attempting too ambitious a range of reform
measures; and realistic risk assessment, as a function of appraisal and project supervision. Lessons learned
from existing and previous lines of credit operations in transition economies suggest that these operations are
successful when the design is simple and has limited objectives, in that the credit lines are not sector specific,
interest rates are market based, and the focus is on the selection of competent intermediaries. A more
fundamental requirement is that macroeconomic stability has been established and that enterprise and financial
sector reforms, as well as legal reforms, are well underway. The proposed project has taken into account these
lessons and is timed to follow the new IMF ESAF program, IDA's BESAC and BELTAC, and ADB's FSPL.
In termns of simplicity of design, the proposed credit line will not be targeted; will apply market-based rates of
interest; and will only be approved for on-lending by those PFIs which meet strict predetermined eligibility
criteria.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
The Project evidences a high degree of Borrower ownership and support of the Government at the highest
political level. This commitment has been recently reflected in the February 1999 letter from the newly
appointed Minister of Finance, expressing strong support for the PSDC, and through his personal support of
the negotiation process in Ulaanbaatar in March 1999.
The MOF view the project as an effective and transparent mechanism to support the development of the
private sector. Additionally, the project is entirely consistent with the Government's overall private sector-led
growth policy. BOM is also committed to the project because it will strengthen the banking sector and lead to
improved compliance with prudential norms. The commercial banks have indicated their keen support for the
project because it will increase the financial resources available for term lending and will lead to improved
banking skills by virtue of the hands-on technical assistance. Finally, the private sector is very interested in
the project because it will facilitate increased access to term financing, thus alleviating one of the primary
constraints to their continued growth and development. MOF and BOM have also indicated their commitment
and support for the project by providing high level counterparts for the mission meetings and for ongoing
dialogue.



Page 14
5.  Value added of Bank Group Support in this Project
IDA has substantial experience in FILs across transitional economies. Additionally, IDA is well acquainted
with the legal and regulatory infrastructures necessary to encourage private sector term lending. The proposed
project will build on existing reforms in the banking sector, and coordinate the provision of technical
assistance being provided by other donors.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
Cost-Benefit Analysis: Not applicable
Cost Effectiveness Analysis: Not applicable
2. Financial
NPV = Not applicable; FRR = Not applicable
Fiscal impact. The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. The MOF will receive direct
financial support from the interest rate structure of the loan. The spread between the IDA terms (zero interest
rate) and the market interest rate charged to the PFIs will be retained by the MOF. Part of the spread will be
used to cover the exchange rate risk involved in the PSDC. Indirect positive fiscal effects should also derive
from the fact that the project should make the banking sector stronger in terms of both better bank supervision
capability and commercial bank ability to select creditors. This will have a positive impact through the lower
risk of future banking crises and hence reducing potential costs for the Government in the coming years.
Finally, the higher income generated by the project will have a positive effect on the tax revenue side.
3. Technical
The technical elements that require special attention relate to the technical capability of the PFIs to properly
evaluate sub-borrower proposals, to monitor their respective loan portfolios and to implement effective
procedures for collecting on bad loans. The selection of PFIs, monitoring their institutional development
program, the detailed account and record keeping function will be undertaken by the CWG with support from
IDA.
4. Institutional Assessment
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) for on-lending. Detailed assessments of institutional
capacity and financial status has been conducted to pre-identify eligible PFIs to on-lend funds under the credit
line. The eligibility criteria for PFIs - both for entry and on-going eligibility - is detailed in Annex 8. Only
two commercial banks, out of the total 16 presently licensed commercial banks in Mongolia, have been pre-
identified as eligible PFIs. The detailed assessment conducted in 1998 of these banks - TDB and Golomt
Bank, together with that of ITI Bank - which did not qualify - are available in project files. The CWG, based
on information and recommendations from BOM, will monitor the on-going eligibility and performance of
these institutions through-out the project, in addition to reviewing possible additional PFIs that may qualify in
the future. The PSDC will provide technical assistance to these PFIs to strengthen their institutional capacity
to assess sub-projects, to on-lend under the PSDC and, more broadly, to help them become more efficient
financial intermediaries. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for this TA are set-out in Annex 2. Some TA
resources have been reserved for other (yet-to-qualify) PFIs that may become eligible during the three-year
implementation phase of the project.
Project Management. The CWG is a high level steering committee that has been established especially for
the PSDC and is comprised of two representatives from the MOF, two from the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) and



Page 15
one representative of a private sector business association. The Director, Restructuring Policy Department of
MOF will lead the group. The CWG will meet at least quarterly to review progress under PSDC and take
proactive action, as appropriate, to improve the implementation of the PSDC. The specific role of the high-
qualified CWG is outlined in Annex 7. Technical Assistance is provided under the PSDC to help build the
capacity of the Project Coordinator and CWG, through targeted training activities (see Annex 2 for details). A
local consultant is being recruited as the Project Coordinator. He/she will be the Project's only full-time staff,
and will act as the central coordinating point between the Bank, CWG and the various project entities (PFI's,
BOM, MOF), to monitor implementation progress and prepare reports (see Annex 2, Attachment 5 for the
TOR for the Project Coordinator).
5. Environmental Assessment
Environmental Category [ ] A    [x] B/Fl  []C
A project is categorized B/Fl when it involves investments of Bank Group funds in subprojects through a
financial intermediary. Financial intermediaries must ensure that the sub-borrowers carry out appropriate
environmental assessments for each subproject so that the subproject is in compliance with local and national
environmental regulations. It is in the financial intermediary's interest to reduce potential financial risks by
ensuring that all investments comply with the country's environmental laws and regulations.
An English translation of Mongolia's Environmental Law is available in Project Files. This law has been
reviewed by the Bank's environmental lawyers and, in principle, found to be in-line with the World Bank's
environmental policy. This law specifies the procedures that all investment projects in Mongolia must follow
in order to obtain clearance from the Ministry of Nature and Environment (or the appropriate local authority).
As one of PSDC eligibility criteria for sub-loans, all sub-project's applications under the credit line will be
required to provide proof that their proposal project has been appropriately certified. This certification will
accompany all sub-loan applications submitted by the PFIs for IDA's review.
Due to the nature of the sub-projects expected to be financed under the line of credit, no resettlement is
envisaged. Nevertheless, PFI's will be responsible for screening all sub-project proposals to ascertain whether
they will give rise to resettlement and to ensure that, in such cases, the Investment Enterprise has prepared and
agreed to implement a resettlement action plan, acceptable to the Association. Such a plan would improve, or
at least restore the livelihood and standards of living of the displaced persons. All sub-projects involving
resettlement, regardless of size, will be subject to review by IDA.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The objectives of the Project are to promote the development of the private sector through the provision of
termn financing to private enterprises, and to promote capacity building and institutional development within
the private and banking sectors. The proposed interventions are designed to have long-term benefits, provided
the Government remains committed to overall project objectives. The strengthening of the banking sector will
continue to provide benefits to the Government (in terms of fiscal relief) and the private sector (in the form of
increased term lending). Key conditions for sustainability are: ability of the banking sector to assimilate and
retain transfer of technical skills (so that banks will begin to lend their own-generated capital to the types of
projects that they have been empowered to properly assess); ability of private entrepreneurs (the sub-
borrowers) to make good use of the funds and to repay in a timely manner; ability of MOF, BOM to retain
qualified staff; effective communication to sub-borrowers of criteria that must be met in order to obtain funds
from the banking sector; and coordination of donor activity in the banking and enterprise sectors.



Page 16
2. Critical Risks
Risk                  Risk Rating                Risk Minimization Measure
Political instability leads to significant  H      IDA will maintain continuous dialogue with the PM's Office,
changes in policy to reform before PSDC            BOM, MOF to ensure that the Government recognizes the
has been fully disbursed                           importance of continuing the process of reforms
Deterioration in macroeconomic             S       IDA, in coordination with the IMF, will maintain continuous
environment, with inflation figures                dialogue with the BOM/ MOF to ensure the steady
increasing over time and Government                implementation of reforms and use of fiscal policy that will
backsliding on reform program                      assist with the steady and well sequenced implementation of the
Government's medium-term reform program
Reforms to legal and regulatory           M        Implementation of the BELTAC project, which is designed to
environment, including bankruptcy,                 assist with improvements to contract enforcement, bankruptcy
insolvency and collateral security reforms         and insolvency law and procedure, and training of bailiffs and
are delayed, leading to insufficient               other officers of the court involved with bankruptcy, should
infrastructure to support collection of bad        help improve the legal and regulatory environment
debts
Commercial banks deteriorate and they are  H       Institutions wishing to become PFIs will have to meet, and
unable to effectively intermediate funds,          continue to meet, strict eligibility criteria developed by IDA.
leading to growing portfolio of poor or            CWG will monitor ongoing compliance with such criteria and
suspect loans                                      will cease lending to institutions which fail to meet the criteria.
Technical assistance will be used to strengthen project
appraisal, credit analysis and debt collection within PFIs
Sub-borrowers are unable to repay the      H       TA to help improve PFIs ability to identify commercially viable
funds borrowed from the PFIs                       sub-projects and recognize potential problem loans, monitoring
the loan portfolio over time, and effectively implementing the
collection of bad loans
Inadequate coordination of donor-financed  M       IDA in conjunction with the project working group will work
activities, resulting in donor competition,        closely with other donors. In addition, MOF/BOM have each
policy confusion and duplication of                designated one official responsible for donor liaison
support
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions
The following Agreements, acceptable to IDA, should be in place prior to effectiveness
* Subsidiary Loan Agreements
* Financing Agreement between the MOF and Bank of Mongolia (BOM)
* Financing Agreement between MOF and PFI for the Technical Assistance Component.



Page 17
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. - The preparation of these documents is well advanced.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I: Compliance with Bank Group Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank Group policies.
[signature]
Task Manager: Amanda Carlier
[signature]                                /      1 /1n 
Sector Manager: Hoon Mok Chung       /
[signature] 
Country Directo      iW         a          )



Page 18                                             Annex I
ANNEX 1A: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mongolia : Private Sector Development Project
Narrative Summary                    Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and Supervision
CAS Objective
* Private sector development.        * Increase in competitiveness and profitability of   Special statistics and project
private enterprises                        files.
Project Development Objectives
* Promote private sector development by  * The growth of long and medium-term lending in  Quantitative and qualitative
making available term finance and    the economy as reflected in the percentage of    indicators from PSDC working
improving institutional capacity of  total loans outstanding in the banking system  group and project files.
PFIs and BOM.                        with maturities of more than one year.
* The improvement in the financial and economic
performance indicators of PFIs.
* The improvement in the quality and
effectiveness of BOM bank supervision.
Project Outputs
* Full compliance by PFIs with the BOM  * Loan collection ratio of subloans.      Quantitative indicators from
prudential regulations throughout the                                           PSDC working group and
lifetime of the project.           * Performance of approved sub-loans (i)      project files.
* Progress made by PFIs in credit     percentage on schedule with debt-servicing, (ii)
culture, especially in assessing and  percentage of sub-projects on schedule with  Firm level survey of impact on
monitoring the creditworthiness of   individual sub-project investment plan, and (iii)  beneficiaries, and financial
projects and borrowers, and in       percentage of sub-projects achieving       information submitted by PFIs
improving credit policies and        performance targets specified in approval sub-
procedures.                          loan appraisal report.
Project Components
* Line of credit.                    * Total disbursements under line of credit.  Project files: borrower team,
* Technical assistance to BOM.       * Strengthened supervisory capacity of BOM bank supervision and consultant
examiners.                                 progress reports.
* Improved credit information for PFIs via the
CIB.
* Technical assistance to commercial  * Improved lending practices and transparent
banks.                               account by commercial banks.



ANNEX 1B: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Mongolia: Private Sector Development Project
The performance and impact of the Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC) will be monitored through process and output indicators and impact indicators.
Process and output indicators are designed to track the implementation and the expected outcomes of the project, and have to be assessed during the lifetime of
the project. Impact indicators are designed to assess the achievement of the final objectives of the project, and their assessment should be carried out after the
closure of the operation.
Objectives           Inputs           Process and Output Indicators       Risks and Critical Assunaptions (Thte       Impacts (of project activities)
outcomes depends on..)
Promote private sector
development
- alleviate term credit
constraint for private
enterprises          $10 million      (i) Approximately 42 sub-loan       Low disbursements under the line of credit    Growing term lending demand and
credit line (plus   applications submitted by PFIs,  due to:                                   availability as reflected in the steady
- improve              a minimum of    (ii) Around 33 sub-loans             -   deterioration in general operating    increase from the current level of I percent
competitiveness and    US $2 million  approved/cleared by IDA,                 environment of private firms in      of total loans outstanding in the banking
performance of       from sub-        (iii) At least 80 percent of sub-loans on  Mongolia;                          system with maturitics of more than one
private enterprises  borrowers)       schedule with debt-servicing, and   -   worsening PFI performance as a result   year.
(iv) Credit line fully disbursed by     of deterioration of the financial sector as
February 28, 2003.                      a whole leading to (i) growing non-   Aggregate  increase in profitability  of
performing loans, (ii) non compliance    enterprises receiving sub-loans.
with prudential norms, and (iii)
disqualification as P'FIs; and       Investment projects financed by approved
-   future developments in macroeconomic  sub-loans achieved projected targets for
conditions undermining the basic     sales and rate of returns.
assumptions for the terms and
conditions of the credit line.       Improved credit culture of PFIs as
demonstrated by satisfactory sub-loan
Institutional                                                                                                          collection ratio (>80%).
Strengthening
Weakened commitmcnit to the elfective
- the Bank of Mongolia  Training of     BOM Approximately 52                enforcement of prudential norms and
(BOM)                BOM staff        person/months of staff training     banking legislation by BOM.               Improvement in the quality and
delivered through distance learning                                           effectiveness of BOM bank supervision -
courses in finance and banking and                                            reflected in timely identification of and  >
local courses especially in the areas of                                      action against violations of the prudential  z
bank supervision and regulations by                                           regulations and the commercial banking
'  2001.                                               _ __   _       _       law.



Objectlives          Inputs         Process and Output Inadicators      Risks and Critical Assumptions (The        Impacts (of project activities)
outcomes (lepends on..)
Upgrading       CIB Upgraded systems procured      Low utilization of the credit information  CIB  makes increased contributions to
Credit          (1999),their installation and testing  system due to:                       improved  credit risk  management of
Information     completed (2000), and staff training  -   lack of improvements in information  commercial banks (assessed by feedback
System (CIB)    completed (2000).                       quality and enforcement for disclosure   from users).
requirements; and
-   poorly designed systems / applications
resulting in CIB not being user-friendly
and under-utilized by commercial
banks.
- Participating       Technical        Trade and Development Bank         Unsatisl'actory impiemenitation of the   General InApact Indlicatorsfor PFIs
Financial Institutions  assistance   for  consultant services contracted (1999)    program due to:               -   Progress made by PFIs in financial
(PFis)              PFIs             and delivered in full (2001). Software   -   Uncertainty through pending ownership  and credit management reflected in
package for credit management system   changes (privatization) affecting        better quality of PFIs Loan Portfolio;
assessed, procured (1999), and         compatibility of the system with the     and
adapted, installed and tested (2000).  requirements of the strategic investors;   -   Full compliance by PFIs of the BOM
Approximately 52 person/months staff   and                                      prudential regulations throughout the
training completed (2002).         -   Inadequate coordination between         lifetime of the project.
various technical assistance programs
provided by different donors leading to
weakened management commitment
and implementation of the TA program
in question.
Colomt Bank consultant service
contracted (1999), and delivered in full  Full absorption of the technical assistance
(2001). About 54 person/months staff   affected by limited experience of
training completed (2002).         management in managing comprehensive
institutional development programs.
CWG project coordinator employed
- Counterpart Working   Employment of  (1999). Annual training program    -   CWG members preoccupied with other
Group (CWG)         project          designed and agreed-upon by            commitments resulting in insufficient    CWG performs as an effective overseeing
coordinator and   November I each year commencing       atteintion to training activities and l'SDC   and project coordiiating bod)y - reflected
training        1999, and around 6 person/month         progress.                           through PSDC implementation progress as
activities for  training (2002).                   -   Frequent replacement of CWG          planned.
CWG                                                    members.
z
z



Page 21                                   ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Mongolia : Private Sector Development Project
Project Component 1-US$1O.0 million
Line of Creditfor Equipment and Permanent Working Capital.
The line of credit (LOC) for US$10.0 million will be the main project component, accounting for 83 percent of
the International Development Agency (IDA) credit. The LOC will be made available for on-lending through
eligible PFIs to private firms established and operating in Mongolia to promote private sector activities. The
IDA Credit will finance principally plant and equipment to be purchased by private sector enterprises;
permanent working capital financing will also be eligible. Civil works (with the exception of housing) and
leasing arrangements may also be financed under the credit line. In addition, expenditure incurred by sub-
borrowers in preparing business/strategic, restructuring, development and marketing plans will be eligible.
Medium and long term financing only will be eligible (sub-loan maturity of 3 to 7 years). Refinancing will not
be allowed, nor will land or real estate be financed. Access to the funds will be on a first-come first-served
basis. The commercial banks acting as PFIs under the Credit will assume full responsibility for the credit risk
of projects financed under the LOC.
Each PFI will submit its first five sub-project proposals to IDA for its review, regardless of the size of the
proposed sub-loan. After the first five sub-projects for a given PFI, that PFI will only submit sub-projects of
US$350,000 equivalent or more for IDA's full review. For sub-project below the free-limit threshold (i.e.,
$350,000) the PFIs will submit a summary description of the proposed sub-project, in the agreed format, to
obtain IDA's authorization to withdraw from the loan account. PFIs will continue to submit full appraisal
reports, in the agreed format, for proposed sub-projects over the $350,000 threshold limit, for IDAs review and
no-objection. The only exception is for proposed sub-projects giving rise to resettlement - which must be
submitted for IDAs review, regardless of the size of the proposed sub-project. The cut-off date for PFIs to
submit proposed sub-projects is six months prior to the Project's expected closing date.
Relending Mechanisms, Terms and Conditions
IDA will lend to Government at standard IDA terms.4 These funds will, in turn, be on-lent to PFIs, which
would then re-lend the funds to private sector sub-borrowers. The funds available under the $10 million line
of credit would be passed on to the PFIs on a back-to-back basis. This means that the PFIs would repay the
Government on essentially the same loan repayment schedule as the underlying sub-loan. There will be a time
lag of six months for repayments from PFIs to the Government to minimize the impact on PFI liquidity in the
case of delayed repayment by sub-borrowers. By extending the credit line on a back-to-back basis, the
Government would effectively create a revolving fund for the continuous provision of term finance to the
private sector, through eligible PFIs.
The lack of access to formal term finance in Mongolia, reflecting the absence of a medium-term lending
market, stymies the potential for private sector lead growth. The PSDC credit line is structured to meet both
the investment needs of the sub-borrowers and the soundness of the PFIs, and is flexible in terms of the
currency denomination of the sub-loans. The line of credit will have two windows: a foreign currency and/or a
local currency window. In the first stage, an SDR-denominated loan will be extended from IDA to the
Government of Mongolia. In the second and third stages, the currency denomination will be made in either
foreign currency or in Togrogs to reflect PFIs' requests, which, in turn, will reflect the final borrowers' credit
demand.
4 40-year maturity, 10-year grace period, no interest payment and 0.75 percent services fee, and 0.5 commitment charge.



Page 22                                   ANNEX 2
Foreign Currency Loans: For the foreign currency denominated loans, the Government would lend to the PFIs
in a foreign currency, and the PFIs would, in turn, make a foreign currency loan to the final sub-borrower.
The interest rate charged by the Government to the PFIs will be linked to the London Inter-Bank Borrowing
Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread of between 2-5 percent, to symbolize the market rates of these banks directly
accessing the international market. For the initial period, subject to regular review, the spread has been
established at 3 percent, subject to revisions to reflect changes in the market conditions following joint reviews
by MOF/BOM and IDA. These rates will be revised quarterly to reflect changes in LIBOR. The PFIs would
on-lend the funds to sub-borrowers on their own terms and conditions (within the framework defined for the
project, based on market conditions and their own assessment of sub-borrowers and projects). As the foreign
exchange risk will be fully borne by the final borrower for foreign currency denominated loans, the final
borrower wishing to borrow in a foreign currency will likely be an exporting enterprise with foreign currency
revenues. It will be the PFIs' responsibility to assess the risk (credit risk and foreign exchange risk) involved
with their final borrowers.
Local Currency (Togrog) Loans: Ideally the price for on-lending the funds under the domestic currency
window of the credit line from MOF to the PFI's would be based on the cost of funds in the domestic market.
However, due to the present distortions in the financial sector including significant interest rate distortions (see
Section B), and the dearth of medium term fuiding sources (especially term deposits) for the commercial
banks, there is presently no suitable domestic benchmark that can be used to price the funds. For this reason,
as a provisional measure, and in an effort to avoid arbitrarily determined or subsidized rates, the price of these
funds to PFIs will be linked to an international benchmark, using the following formulae;
i = LIBOR + spread + inflation +foreign exchange risk premium
where:
  spread on LIBOR would reflect market conditions and be on the range of 2-5 percent (initially established
at 3 percent)
*  inflation would be based on the moving average for the past 12 months, and
*  optional FX risk premium would represent an insurance for MOF, related to the foreign exchange risk; this
risk premium would be reviewed every 6 months ( up to 50 percent of the average inflation)
The inclusion of a foreign exchange (FX) premium in the formula for domestic currency loans reflects the fact
that the FX risk will be borne by the Government not the sub-borrowers who, in the absence of hedging
facilities in Mongolia, are generally not well equipped to deal with foreign exchange risk. Moreover, this
approach will allow the PFIs to focus their attention on the lending process without regard to possible foreign
exchange arbitrage risk or profit. The Government will use the interest rate earned from its spread to cover the
foreign exchange risk. The Government has expressed the view that under the present circumstances no
specific FX risk premium is required, as they consider that the spread provided by the formula (excluding the
FX component) over their IDA lending rate is sufficient to cover their perceived FX exposure. Accordingly,
as of March 1999, the interest rate for passing on Togrogs to the PFIs would be something like 16.5 percent
(representing a 15.75 percent spread for the government), i.e.,
i=     6 percent + 3 percent + 7.5 percent + 0 percent = 16.5 percent
LIBOR + spread + inflation + additional FX risk
The loans under the domestic currency window would be made on a fixed rather than variable basis, to protect
the final sub-borrowers with already approved sub-loans and the PFIs from the risk of major fluctuations in the
inflation rate. The final on-lending rates will be determined by the PFI's based on market conditions. If,_for
example, the PFI's took a spread of 6-8 percent, the cost for the sub-borrower would be 22.5- 24.5 percent.



Page 23                                         ANNEX 2
This formula and its impact on the credit line will be regularly reviewed, and compared to prevailing interest
rates in the thin domestic market. As this is a provisional formula, given the current market conditions and the
measures being pursued to correct the distortions, there will be a cap of $2 million equivalent on the amount
that can be committed under this currency window, before a comprehensive review of the pricing formula and
the credit line perfornance is made by IDA and the Borrower.
On-lending beyond the 3-year implementation period of the Credit
After the completion of the three year implementation phase of the IDA credit, the project proceeds from the
PSDC line of credit will continue to be used by the GOM for on-lending term finance, through eligible PFIs, to
the private sector on specified terms and conditions, except for IDA approval of sub-loans. Provisions in the
project's legal documents have been made for the on-going implementation arrangements for managing these
resources, and the clear separation of these resources from all other financial transactions and accounts,
including those between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BOM.
Sub-borrower eligibility criteria and terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Majority private owned enterprises that are creditworthy, have sound financial positions and prospects (as
reflected in financial statements and projections), and will be able to service debt under the sub-loan, would be
eligible to apply for term finance from the line of credit. There would be no restrictions as to the sector or sub-
sector of activity (e.g., industrial, service sector, utilities, etc) nor as to the size or ownership form of the
potential private sector sub-borrower (i.e., shareholding, limited liability, partnership or sole proprietorships).
The sub-borrowers need to finance at least 20 percent of proposed sub-project total investment costs from their
own resources (including land). The proposed sub-projects would need to be technically, commercially and
financially viable, have a financial rate of return of not less than 13 percent. Sub-projects must be designed in
accordance with appropriate health, safety, resettlement and environmental standards.5
Sub-loans would finance equipment, incremental permanent working capital and services, including
expenditures incurred by eligible sub-borrowers for restructuring purposes, and to develop business plans and
foreign markets for their products. Civil works (except housing) and leasing arrangements are also eligible
expenses. The proceeds of the Credit would be used to finance 100 percent of the sub-loans which represent
up to 80 percent of the sub-project cost net of taxes and duties. As the credit line is designed to provide
medium-long term finance, it is not intended to be used for trade finance. Each sub-borrower will sign a Sub-
loan Agreement with the on-lending bank.
A. Eligibility criteria         B. Terms and conditions of sub-loans      C. In-eligible sub-loans
(Negative list)
Majority private owned.         Maximum loan < US $750,000 to a single  No refinancing or takeover loans.
Debt service coverage > 1.3:1.  borrower.                                 No military loans.
Loan/value ratio < 80 percent.  Final maturity 23 years and < 7 years.    No consumer loans.
Financial rate of return of > 13  Grace period for principal < 2 years.   No environmentally-damaging
percent.                        No grace period for interest.             loans.
No previous defaults.           Principal payments at least quarterly.    No real estate
Interest payments at least quarterly.     No housing
All loans to be secured (either collateralized
or personal guarantees for sole
proprietorships).
5 The Mongolian Environmental Law - in Project File - has been reviewed, and in principle found to be in-line with the World
Bank's environmental policy. Sub-projects will be screened by the PFIs. If there is potential for resettlement, RAPs will be
required and implemented as part of the sub-project.



Page 24                                     ANNEX 2
Selection of Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
A broad range of factors are taken into account in determining the eligibility of PFIs, including the bank's
compliance with prudential regulations and banking law, its size in terms of market share, spread and customer
base, portfolio quality, profitability, asset/liability management, corporate governance, credit policies and
procedures, organizational structure, staffing, management quality and shareholder influence.  These
considerations for PFIs eligibility are outlined in detail in Annex 8. As part of this assessment, IDA has also
reviewed the banks recent financial accounts - prepared and audited in accordance with accounting and
auditing principles acceptable to the Bank -- to confirm that the banks have adequate profitability, capital and
portfolio quality. At the time of preparing the Credit, based on in-country assessments and review of the
audited financial statements, only two commercial banks qualified as PFIs, namely, Trade and Development
Bank (TDB) and the Golomt Bank (GB). The assessment of these banks, and also that of ITI Bank which
does not qualify at this stage, are available in project files. The key issues arising from these assessments are
outlined below:
Trade and Development Bank (T&D Bank) is a state owned bank accounting for 38 percent of
outstanding loans (12/98). As of December 1998, T&D Bank is in compliance with all but one of the
prudential norms. One T&D Bank loan is in violation of the prudential regulation of single borrower
exposure. As this loan was not classified as non-performing at the end of 1998, no provisions had been
made against it. This loan was made before this prudential norm was instituted (i.e., that the bank did
not violate this prudential norm at the time the loan was made). It is agreed that T&D Bank would be
eligible to act as a PFI at the start of the PSDC, based on their implementation of the agreed time-bound
action plan. The agreed action plan (attached to the Minutes of Negotiation) sets out the specific steps
and timetable to recover this loan through court procedures and subsequent debt-collection activities.
The repayment timetable has been based on realistic cash-flow projections of the debtors' seasonal
income stream, combined with increases in equity through retained earnings. On this basis, it was
agreed that TDB current single exposure of 47.5 percent would be reduced to 33.6 percent by the end of
1999 and 20 percent by September 2000. This target may be achieved earlier, if a capital injection
accompanies the privatization of TDB, which is currently scheduled for 1999.
Golomt Bank is a medium sized and efficient private bank accounting for 7 percent of outstanding
loans, as of December 1998. At the time of Credit Negotiations, Golomt Bank had two loans
marginally in excess of the prudential norm on exposure to insider/ related parties lending. Golomt
Bank management agreed to come into compliance with the norm on insider/related parties lending by
end 1999 at latest.
As the primary objective of the PSDC is to promote the private sector, rather than to commit funds and provide
TA to a few currently eligible financial institutions (whose nature may be significantly different several years
from now) or to exclude other financial institutions that may satisfy PFI eligibility criteria to on-lend project
proceeds in the future, commercial banks that meet the eligibility requirements in the future may also
participate in the PSDC. Significant changes in the financial sector - with the privatization, merger and
possible demise of several commercial banks, is expected in the near- medium term future as a result of a
number of developments, including the recent change in the Banking Law that, inter alia, increased the
minimum required paid-in capital for commercial banks by September 1999. Within the three year
implementation phase of the project and certainly within the life of the loan, it is expected that other
commercial banks will qualify to act as PFIs. It will be the responsibility of the CWG, based on the
information and recommendations from BOM, to determine the eligibility of potentially new PFI's and the on-
going eligibility of existing PFIs. The continuing eligibility of any PFI will depend on: (i) the bank's own
financial standing; and (ii) its performance under the PSDC credit line.



Page 25                                   ANNEX 2
Project Component 2-US$2 million
The success of the project will hinge on the ability of the PFIs to successfully implement the project and on the
ability of the final sub-borrower to make good use of the funds and repay them in a timely manner. It will also
depend on effective supervision of the PFIs by the BOM. Both the selected PFIs and the private enterprises
who will make use of these resources require technical and advisory assistance. The proposed US$2.0 million
TA component (including training activities and equipment) is designed to complement, and is provided
simultaneously with, the line of credit. The TA package consists of three main sub-components.
(a) Counterpart Working Group (US$200,000). PSDC would be the first credit line plus technical
assistance credit which the Mongolian Government borrows from IDA. For the successful implementation of
the project, the Government has agreed to establish a CWG. This allocation is to finance mainly the cost of a
project coordinator, annual project audits, and CWG staff training. Detailed scope of work is provided in
Attachment 4.
Project Coordinator (US$27,300). The MOF shall employ a full-time Project Coordinator to help the
CWG monitor the progress of the project and to act as a central link between IDA, CWG and the
various project entities. The Project Coordinator would be hired for the duration of the project.
Detailed scope of work is provided in Attachment 5.
Related Project Coordination Costs (US$43,100). This small allocation is to assist CWG to
administer the implementation of PSDC. The costs to be covered include those of limited office
equipment, supplies, workshops, information dissemination, and translation.
Project Audits (US$90,000). The required annual audits of the Project until the close of the Project are
to be financed by the TA provided to CWG. The audit would be carried out by one of the major
international auditing firms.
Overseas Training for CWG (US$39,600). Short term overseas training would be provided to the
CWG members in the area of private sector development (may include EDI courses and site visits to
other successful PSD projects) and efficient project management.
Bank of Mongolia (US$375,000). To enhance BOM's role in the implementation of PSDC, especially in
continuous monitoring and supervision of PFIs, technical assistance would be provided to the training of
central banking skills and the development of a credit information system administered by the Credit
Information Bureau (CIB). Detailed scope of work is provided in Attachment 1.
Training (US$275,000). Short term overseas training/secondment would be provided to a limited
number of BOM staff in bank supervision and regulations. Local training would focus on remote
learning courses on finance and banking and workshops on the enforcement of prudential regulation and
supervision, including issues related to economic crimes.
Credit Information Bureau (US$100,000). The TA to the CIB aims to upgrade the rudimental credit
infornation system by financing the purchase and adaptation of operating and applications systems
($35,000), and the procurement of limited on-line/network equipment ($65,000). On-the-job training
would be provided by suppliers.



Page 26                                   ANNEX 2
TA for PFI's (US$1,000,000)
T&D Bank (US$600,000). Technical Assistance to TDB is to build on a recently concluded twinning
program under the Banking, Enterprise and Legal TA Credit. International expertise would be provided in the
renewal of the credit processing and management system and the development of core curriculums in
commercial banking. Cost of related short term training would be covered. The TA activities would be
closely coordinated with the Asian Development Bank/Bank of Mongolia Project on Core Banking
Accounting System Renewal. Detailed scope of the TA for TDB is provided in Attachment 2
IT Systems Renewal (US$450,000). This is to cover the cost of (i) international experts in assisting
TDB to select an off-shelve credit management system package that may best meet the bank's needs
(US$75,000); and (ii) the software package and limited equipment (US$375,000). On-the-job training
would be provided by consultants and suppliers.
Training Program (US$150,000). Consultant services would be required for the development and
upgrading of courses in core banking operations (US$30,000). Short term training courses and overseas
internship would be provided in the areas of strategic planning, human resource management, credit
management and risk control, and internal control (US$110,000). Selected internationally well-used
training materials would be introduced (US$10,000).
Golomt Bank (US$400,000). Technical assistance to GB would focus on external audit, and the development
and implementation of an institutional development program. Detailed scope of work is provided in
Attachment 3.
External Audit (US$50,000). This is to cover part of the cost of the audit of annual financial
statements by an international accounting firm in accordance with the International Accounting
Standards (IAS).
Consulant Services (US$200,000).  International experts would be hired to assist Golomt
management in strategic/business planning, MIS development, model branch development, term-
lending capacity building, and human resource development.
Training (US$150,000). Training would focus on overseas courses in business management, finance
and banking, given the paucity of skills in these areas.
Unallocated TA (US$425,000). It is decided to keep 3.5 percent of credit proceeds as unallocated. The
Mongolian banking sector is undergoing dramatic restructuring. Over the past two to three years, a number of
large banks have deteriorated into technical insolvency, whilst new banks have emerged and are growing
rapidly. The unallocated category would enable the project to provide technical assistance to banks which
become qualified as PFIs at a later stage. The volatile environment also implies that the TA needs of the
current TA beneficiaries may be adjusted from time to time during the project life cycle. The unallocated
resources are split into (i) Unallocated for technical assistance to PFIs (US$300,000), and (ii) Other
unallocated (US$125,000).
TA Terms. The terms of the TA loan to the PFIs will be provided at 2 percent per annum, 20 year maturity
and five year grace. The terms of the TA loan to the BOM will be provided at 1 percent per annum, 20 year
maturity, including 5 years grace.



Page 27                                   ANNEX 2
Attachment 1: Bank of Mongolia TA
Description of Proposed Technical Assistance
Background
1.    Since mid-1996, Mongolia has instituted an ambitious reform program to complete the transition into
a market economy. The strategy is composed of three key elements: establishing macroeconomic stability,
reducing the size of the state sector, and fostering private sector development. A number of initiatives have
been taken in banking and corporate restructuring. The inflation rate has dipped from over 50 percent in mid-
1997 to 6 percent in December 1998. However, to maintain growth, Mongolia needs to increase access to
capital for private businesses through improved financial intermediation. This cannot be realized without a
strong and active financial system.
2.     While bank restructuring measures have yielded some positive results, including the improvement in
portfolio quality, Mongolia banks have a long way to go to strengthen their credit risk management and term-
lending capabilities. Since commercial banking is a relatively new activity, bank managers lack credit
structuring and pricing skills and they do not have sufficient ability to select bankable projects from potential
borrowers. Bank intermediation and lending remains low while interest rates remain extremely high (between
20-35 percent in real terms for loans of 90-180 days). One of the major constraints faced by Mongolia's
private enterprises is the lack of affordable formal credit or other financial services from banks.
Objectives
3.     The Govemment of Mongolia is committed to pursue the ongoing program of financial sector reform,
including strengthening central bank supervision, restructuring and privatizing banks, and developing commercial
banking skills. As one of the initial steps for developing financial intermediation, the Government has agreed to
provide technical assistance to the Bank of Mongolia and two potential Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs), in the context of the proposed Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC).
Scope of Work
4.     The BOM has agreed to assist the implementation of PSDC especially by continuous monitoring and
supervision of PFIs. The BOM management has requested technical assistance under PSDC to finance: (i)
staff training, and (ii) development of the credit information system managed by the CIB.
5.     Staff training. Short term training shall be provided to staff in the following areas:
*  overseas secondment/training of about 10 bank supervisors, who upon return to BOM may act as quality
control persons and provide training to their Supervision Department colleagues;
*  overseas secondment/training of 1-2 core staff from the Legal Division in banking laws and regulations;
* long-distance courses in finance and banking offered by a selected internationally known university for 2-
3 staff; and local workshops on the enforcement of prudential regulation and supervision, including issues
related to economic crimes.
6. Development of Credit Information System. In order to enhance credit risk management in commercial
banks, the CIB was established under BOM a couple of years ago. However, the quality and coverage of
information gathered by CIB is hampered due to the weaknesses in network capacities and the lack of skilled
staff. Funding would be provided to (a) purchase and adapt operating and applications systems, and (b)
procure limited on-line/network equipment. Suppliers are required to provide on-the-job training to CIB staff.
Procurement of systems packages and equipment should comply with the Guidelines on Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits issued in January 1995, and revised January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999.



Page 28                                     ANNEX 2
Reports and Time Schedule
7. The training of staff, particularly supervision staff, should start immediately after the effectiveness of
PSDC, and should continue as long as the pre-allocated budget is available. IDA's prior clearance is required
for the specific training plans, especially on the number of participants, the subject, and the time, venue and
duration of the training. A summary report should be submitted to the PSDC CWG and IDA within one month
of the conclusion of each training activity.'
8. It is the responsibility of BOM to report to CWG and IDA on a semi-annual and annual basis regarding the
progress in the implementation of this technical assistance component, including any major issues, and
suggestions on their solution.



Page 29                                   ANNEX 2
Attachment 2: Trade & Development Bank
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Background
1.    Since mid-1996 Mongolia has instituted an ambitious reform program to complete the transition into a
market economy. The strategy is composed of three key elements: establishing macroeconomic stability,
reducing the size of the state sector, and fostering private sector development. A number of initiatives have
been taken in banking and corporate restructuring. The inflation rate has dipped from over 50 percent in mid-
1997 to 6 percent in December 1998. However, to maintain growth, Mongolia needs to increase access to
capital for private businesses through improved financial intermediation. This cannot be realized without a
strong and active financial system.
2.     While bank restructuring measures have yielded some positive results, including the improvement in
portfolio quality, Mongolia banks have a long way to go to strengthen their credit risk management and term-
lending capabilities. Since commercial banking is a relatively new activity, bank managers generally lack
credit structuring and pricing skills. Neither do they have sufficient ability to select bankable projects from
potential borrowers. Bank intermediation and lending remains low while interest rates remain extremely high
(between 20-35 percent in real terms for loans of 90-180 days). One of the major constraints faced by
Mongolia's private enterprises is the lack of affordable formal credit or other financial services from banks.
Objectives
3.     The Government of Mongolia is committed to pursue the ongoing program of financial sector reform,
including strengthening central bank supervision, restructuring and privatizing banks, and developing
commercial banking skills. As one of the initial steps for developing financial intermediation, the Government
has agreed to provide technical assistance to the Bank of Mongolia and two potential Participating Financial
Intermediaries (PFIs), in the context of the proposed World Bank PSDC.
4.     The Trade and Development Bank (TDB) is the largest commercial bank in Mongolia, which is about
to undergo privatization. The bank accounts for 30 percent of the total banking assets. However, TDB, like
other banks in the system, has major institutional development needs. The twinning arrangement between
TDB and a Norwegian banking consortium is being implemented under the on-going IDA project, Banking,
Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC) has recently been completed.6 This is a phased-
in, full-scale technical assistance program to be concluded in Spring 1999. The program includes diagnostic
review of all major areas of TDB's business, preliminary strategic planning, automation needs analysis,
training needs assessment and institutional development program preparation; and implementation of the IDP,
and debt workout. The proposed technical assistance under PSDC is to build on the institutional development
momentum initiated under BELTAC.
Scope of Work
5. The TDB management has requested technical assistance under PSDC in (i) the renewal of the credit
processing and management system, and (ii) training in commercial banking skills.
6. Credit Management System Renewal. Most of TDB's current system-portfolio is expected to be replaced
within two-three years. This includes the general accounting system, general ledger, payroll, personnel
6Details of the arrangement can be found in Annex 5 Bank Twinning-Terms of Reference of the Technical Annex to- the
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on the BELTAC (Report No. P-7020-MOG).



Page 30                                   ANNEX 2
management system, etc. However, the top priority is to upgrade the credit processing and management-
system, given its implications for the bank's safety and soundness in a highly volatile business environment.
The component is to be closely linked with the on-going Asian Development Bank (ADB)/BOM project on
banking accounting system renewal. International consultant services would be required to assist TDB in
customizing the credit management system package purchased off-shelf to fit TDB's operations. The
international consultant is expected to provide on-the-job training to TDB IT staff in this aspect.
7. Training. International consulting services would be needed in the preparation and upgrading of course in
core commercial banking within the framework of the training program developed under BELTAC. The
delivery of the training program is targeted at the following priority areas under PSDC: (i) strategic and
marketing planning, (ii) human resource management, (iii) credit risk control, (iv) credit management process,
and (v) internal control. On the job training is expected to be the main form, but the cost of short-term
overseas internship of key staff in the five areas would also be covered.
Procurement Procedures
9. The Guidelines on selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank Borrowers issued in January
1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 should apply for the recruitment of consultants. All
TORs for individual consultants, regardless of the contract value, should be cleared by IDA. Procurement of
limited equipment and the software package should comply with the Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits issued in January 1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999. All overseas training programs have to be cleared by IDA.
Reports and Time Schedule
10. The proposed technical assistance program is expected to be initiated shortly after PSDC becomes
effective. The implementation period is two years. In addition to the deliverables required under the contract,
the service provider should provide quarterly progress reports within 10 days after the end of each quarter to
the TDB management, which in turn should keep a good filing of these documents for the purpose of project
monitoring and supervision by the PSDC CWG and IDA. A final report should be submitted to the TDB
management and copied to CWG and IDA within one month after the conclusion of the assignment.
10. It is the responsibility of the TDB management to report to CWG and IDA on a semi-annual and annual
basis, regarding the progress in the implementation of this technical assistance component, including major
issues if there are any, and suggestions on their solution.



Page 31                                    ANNEX 2
Attachment 3: Golonmt Bank
Draft Terms of Reference for TechnicalAssistance
Background
1. Since mid-1996 Mongolia has instituted an ambitious reform program to complete the transition into a
market economy. The strategy is composed of three key elements: establishing macroeconomic stability,
reducing the size of the state sector, and fostering private sector development. A number of initiatives have
been taken in banking and corporate restructuring. The inflation rate has dipped from over 50 percent in mid-
1997 to 6 percent in December 1998. However, to maintain growth, Mongolia needs to increase access to
capital for private businesses through improved financial intermediation. This cannot be realized without a
strong and active financial system.
2. While bank restructuring measures have yielded some positive results, including the improvement in
portfolio quality, Mongolia banks have a long way to go to strengthen their credit risk management and term-
lending capabilities. Since commercial banking is a relatively new activity, bank managers are generally
lacking in credit structuring and pricing skills. Neither do they have sufficient ability to select bankable
projects from potential borrowers. Bank intermediation and lending remains low while interest rates remain
extremely high (between 20-35 percent in real terms for loans of 90-180 days) One of the major constraints
faced by Mongolia's private enterprises is the lack of affordable formal credit or other financial services from
banks.
Objectives
3. The Government of Mongolia is committed to pursuing the ongoing program of financial sector reform,
including strengthening central bank supervision, restructuring and privatizing banks, and developing
commercial banking skills. As one of the initial steps for developing financial intermediation, the Government
has agreed to provide technical assistance to the Bank of Mongolia and two potential Participating Financial
Intermediaries (PFIs), in the context of the proposed World Bank PSDC.
4. Golomt Bank (Golomt) is the biggest private bank in Mongolia. Its proprietary owner is EBH Bodi
Financial Services, Ltd., a Portuguese-Mongolian joint venture. The bank is also the fastest growing bank,
with an annual growth rate of 300 percent in total assets and net profits since its establishment in March 1995.
The rapid expansion and the paucity in commercial banking skills call for intensive institution building efforts.
In addition, Golomt needs an external audit which it never had until last year. The senior management of
Golomt has requested technical assistance under PSDC to finance: (i) international audits of its financial
statements; (ii) development and implementation of an institutional development program (IDP); and (iii) staff
training.
Scope of Work
5. External audit An internationally renowned accounting firm should be retained to provide an audit
opinion on Golomt's financial statements in accordance with the International Accounting Standards.
6. Institutional Development Program International consultants will be hired to develop and implement an
institutional development program. Priorities should be given to:
* strategic/business planning, including market analysis on the basis of the draft development strategy
prepared with assistance from the international auditor;



Page 32                                   ANNEX 2
*  MIS development, including information systems planning, systems analysis and design, and on-the-job-
training of MIS managers;
*  model branch development, including defining the branch role in implementing GB's mission; developing
branch operational procedures, and mapping out the branch work/information flows, and developing a
model chart for reporting channels between the branch and the HO;
*  term-lending capacity building, including development of a project appraisal manual and other term
lending policies and procedures, as well as on-the-job training in term-lending methodologies and
techniques; and
*  human resource development, including training needs assessment, development of a three-year training
program, and designing and delivery of courses for the first two years.
7. Staff training In addition to the above mentioned on-the-job training to be provided by the selected
service provider, limited key staff may be sent overseas for short-term training in the same areas, as well as
longer term academic programs in business administration, finance and banking.
Procurement Procedures
8. Procurement of an external auditor and consultant services shall follow the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers issued in January 1997, and revised in September 1997
and January 1999. All TORs for individual consultants, regardless of the contract value, should be cleared by
IDA. In the case of consulting firm or twinning partner, the selection shall be quality and cost based. The
RFP, the short list and the contract package including a more detailed work program/TOR are subject to IDA's
prior review and clearance.
Reports and Time Schedule
9. The external audit report of financial statements should be furnished to IDA within 10 days of its
submission to the Golomt Bank management.
10. The Consultant services are expected to initiate shortly after PSDC becomes effective. The Consultant
should provide quarterly progress reports within 10 days after the end of each quarter to the GB management,
which in turn should keep a good filing of these documents for the purpose of project monitoring and
supervision by the PSDC CWG and IDA. A final report should be submitted to the Golomt Bank management
and copied to CWG and IDA within one month after the conclusion of the assignment. In the case of
individual assignments, requirements for progress and completion reports should be specified in the
employment contracts.
11. It is the responsibility of the bank's management to report to CWG and IDA on a semi-annual and annual
basis, regarding the progress in the implementation of the technical assistance, including major issues if there
are any, and suggestions on their solution.



Page 33                                   ANNEX 2
Attachment 4: Project Counterpart Working Group
Description of Proposed Technical Assistance
Background
1.    The PSDC would be the first line of credit which the Mongolian Government borrows from IDA. In
addition to the MOF, the project would involve the BOM, at least two Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs), and many sub-borrowers. For the successful implementation of the project, the Government has agreed
to establish a Counterpart Working Group (CWG). The group would be headed by the director of the
Restructuring Policy Department, MOF, and include representatives from the Treasury Division and the
External Affairs Division, MOF; the director of the Monetary Policy Department, the director of the
Supervision Department, BOM; and a private sector representative (from the Mongolian Employers
Federation). The specific responsibilities of CWG are provided in Annex 7. In view of the lack of experience
on the part of its staff in managing such projects, the Government has also requested technical assistance for
CWG under PSDC. For this purpose, an amount of US$200,000 has been allocated.
Scope of Work
2.     The proposed TA would finance the cost of (i) a project coordinator, (ii) related project support cost,
(iii) annual audits of project financial statements, and (iv) training of CWG members. Recruitment of a project
coordinator and an external auditor for annual project audit shall follow the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers issued in January 1997, and revised in September 1997
and January 1999. The final TOR for the project coordinator and the auditor, regardless of the contract value,
should be cleared by IDA.
3.     Project coordinator.  A consultant shall be recruited as the project coordinator.  The project
coordinator should be able to work closely with IDA's task team, the CWG members and the PFIs. The
coordinator should be independent of any government agency, and should have no vested interest in any sub-
project to be financed by PSDC. The project coordinator is to assist CWG in establishing and managing the
project financial management systems; provide advice to PFIs on the compliance with IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures. A detailed draft terms of reference for the project coordinator is shown in
Attachment 5.
4.     Project audit. As required by OP 10.02 of the World Bank Operational Manual, an independent
auditor shall be hired to conduct annual audits of PSDC's financial statements in accordance with the auditing
standards acceptable to IDA (and financed from Credit proceeds). An audit of such financial statements
should assess the adequacy of the project accounting and internal control systems including the maintenance of
documentation files. It should also verify the eligibility of expenditures submitted for IDA financing.
5.     CWG training. The CWG members would receive training in efficient project management and
private sector development. This includes possible short term courses on private sector development at the
Economic Development Institute of the World Bank (EDI), and site visits to nearby countries who have
experience in managing similar projects.
6.     Project support. This category is to support the administrative work for the implementation of PSDC,
including purchase of two-three desk-top workstations and office stationery, internet communication cost,
organization of seminars/workshops as required by the implementation of the project, and translation and
dissemination of project related information.



Page 34                                   ANNEX 2
Reports and Time Schedule
7.     The CWG TA is for a duration of three years, starting immediately after the effectiveness of PSDC.
However, the project coordinator should be recruited around the time of project negotiations. The project
coordinator should submit to CWG and copy to IDA quarterly and annual progress reports within 10 days after
the end of the period. He/she should also submit to CWG, and copy to IDA, a completion report within one
month after the conclusion of the assignment. The annual project audit is required for the life of PSDC. CWG
should furnish to IDA the annual audit report within six months after the end of the fiscal year under review.
CWG should seek IDA's prior clearance for each training activity. A summary report should be provided to
IDA within one month after the conclusion of a training activity.



Page 35                                   ANNEX 2
Attachment S: Terms of Reference for Project Coordinator.
Background
1.    As part of its commitment to actively support private sector development, the Government of
Mongolia will be implementing the Private Sector Development Credit project (PSDC) with the support of
IDA. The PSDC will provide term financing for private enterprises through PFIs, and related technical
assistance. The individual project entities will be responsible for the implementation of their specific project
sub-components, and the Counterpart Working Group (CWG), especially formed for the project, will be
responsible on behalf of the Government for the overall coordination of the project. To facilitate the smooth
implementation of the project, and the timely coordination of activities and information among the various
project entities (MOF, BOM, PFIs), CWG and IDA, a full-time Project Coordinator is required. The role of
the Project Coordinator, as the only in-country person dedicated full-time to the project, is important to the
successful implementation of the project.
Project Coordinator Duties
2.     The responsibilities of the project coordinator would be, inter alia, to:
-  act as the central coordinating point between IDA, CWG and the various project entities (PFI's,
BOM, MOF);
*  assist the CWG to monitor implementation progress of the PSDC by preparing quarterly progress
reports for the CWG and semi-annual reports for IDA based on information submitted by the
BOM and the PFIs. He/she would also provide status updates to the CWG and IDA as reasonably
requested;
-  in coordination with MOF, maintain project records and files, including summarized accounts,
budget and credit disbursement information;
-  provide guidance and assistance to the project entities on IDA procurement and disbursement
procedures;
*  help with interpretation (during IDA missions), organize translation of project-related documents
and disseminate information on the PSDC project to the Mongolian private sector;
*  assist, as needed, CWG, BOM and the PFIs in processing withdrawal applications of the credit
proceeds; and
*  assist the CWG in preparing the Borrower's contribution to the Project Implementation
Completion Report, including the Operational Plan therein.
Qualifications of the Project Coordinator
3.     The project coordinator will be a consultant fluent in English and Mongolian. A suitable candidate
would have an educational background in relevant fields such as economics, business management, public
policy and finance. He/she should also have at least five years relevant professional experience and a good
understanding of the Mongolian banking and private sectors. Ideally, the candidate would also have
familiarity with the workings of the Ministry of Finance and IDA procedures (for which he/she could receive
further training at IDA's headquarters).



Page 36                                   ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Mongolia : Private Sector Development Project
Component                   Category            Total GOM/PFI/  IDA            % of
Cost   private  Financing   Bank
(US$  enterprise   (US$   Financing
million) Financing million)
Line of Credit                      Onlending            12.0     2.0       10.0       83.3
Technical Assistance                                    2.315    0.315       2.0       16.6
(i) BOM:                                                 0.45    0.075      0.375      3.1
Trainingfor bank supervisors         Training           0.335     0.06      0.275
Credit Information Bureau  Consultants, training, equipment 0.115    0.015   0.1
(ii) MOF/CWG:                                            0.24     0.04       0.2       1.7
Project Coordinator, project  Consultant & related equipment,  0.24  0.04    0.2
audits, etc.                    training and audits
(iii) Commercial Banks                                   1.2      0.2        1.0       8.3
TDB                        Consultants, training, equipment  0.7  0.1        0.6
Golomt Bank                Consultants, training, equipment  0.5  0.1        0.4
(iv) Unallocated                                        0.425      -        0.425      3.5
Unallocatedfor PFI's                                     0.30      -         0.3
Other unallocated                                       0.125      -        0.125
Total                                                   14.315    2.315     12.0      100%
ANNEX 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Not Applicable
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR REVENUE-EARNING PROJECT ENTITIES
Not Applicable



Page 37                                   ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
ARRANGEMENTS
Mongolia : Private Sector Development Project
The disbursement and procurement arrangements for the line of credit and the technical assistance components
are described below. The following section also outlines the Financial Management System review and action
plan.
(1) Disbursements
Due to the limited capacity in Mongolia, traditional disbursement methods (rather than PMR-based
disbursements) will be used in the PSDC.
The Line of Credit Component. The line of credit will be disbursed according to a first-come, first-served
basis, based on the loan applications of the PFIs. Funds from the loan account may be withdrawn through
Withdrawal Procedure (Form 1903) or Special Commitment Procedure (Form 1931) using either Direct
Payment or a Letter of Credit. For the Line of Credit component a Special Account will be held in the BOM
(central bank) to facilitate disbursements. The Account would be established in US currency with an
authorized allocation of US$1,000,000 equivalent. The expected disbursement profile for the US$10 million
allocated under the line of credit component is shown in Table A6. 1.
Table A 6.1: Disbursement Profile under the Line of Credit
(in US$ million equivalent)
Disbursement Profile      FYOO      FYO       FY02       FY03
14$       33        3.3        1.6
For the Line of Credit component, disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for actual expenditures against all sub-loans below  US$350,000 equivalent.  Supporting
documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the project counterpart team. Disbursement
application for expenditures on sub-projects for US$350,000 and above will be supported by full documents
and signed contracts.
The Technical Assistance Component. The US$2.0 million TA component is currently earmarked for four
entities-CWG, BOM (including CIB), and the two PFIs.7 In the case that other commercial banks qualify to
act as PFIs during the implementation phase of the project, a further US$300,000 of the unallocated amount
has been reserved to fund technical assistance to build their capacity if necessary.
The second Special Account under the project would be set up for the Technical Assistance component
(includes the consulting services, training and equipment to be financed under the TA), and held in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Account would be
established in US currency with an authorized allocation of US$200,000 equivalent, and an initial withdrawal
of US$100,000. The balance of the Special Account would be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and
committed under the Technical Assistance Component total US$ 600,000 million equivalent.
7The TA to CWG ($0.2 million) includes funding for the project coordinator and project coordination cost (includes limited
equipment), project audits and training for the counterpart working group (CWG). The TA to BOM (US$0.375 million) is for
overseas training to its staff, and for equipment and software purchase for CIB.



Page 38                                   ANNEX 6
For the Technical Assistance Component, disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs for actual
expenditures against (i) contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for goods; (ii) consultancy contracts of
less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals, and training. Supporting
documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the project counterpart team. Disbursement
application for all other expenditures over the limits mentioned above will be supported by full documents and
signed contracts.
For the two Special Accounts under the project, the Borrower would submit replenishment applications for the
respective Special Account on a monthly basis or when the account is drawn down by 30 percent of the initial
deposit, whichever occurs first. Replenishment of the Special Accounts would follow IDA procedures. The
Special Accounts and the Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA.
Retroactive Financing
In order to accelerate project preparation, the following project activities are expected to be retroactively
financed: the cost of the external audit for Golomt Bank, and expenses associated with the employment of the
Project Coordinator and establishing the Coordination Office prior to Project effectiveness, up to a combined
amnount of US$100,000.
Table A 6.2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category    Amount in US$ million Financing Percentage
Sub-loans to borrowers          10.000      100% of amounts disbursed
Consultant                       0.538      100% of expenditures
Training                         0.597      100% of expenditures
Equipment                        0.440      100% of foreign expenditures, 100percent of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory cost) and 85percent of other items
procured locally
Unallocated                      0.425
Total                           12.00
(2) Procurement
The procurement, consultant selection arrangements and the allocation of Credit Proceeds under the TA
component are shown in Tables A6.2 and A6.3. The selection and appointment of consultants for technical
assistance and support of project implementation will be carried out in accordance with IDA's Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank BorroWers, of January 1997 and revised September
1997 and January 1999. The implementing agencies include the-MOF, BOM, and the eligible PFI's, which
currently number two (Golomt Bank and TDB). MOF, BOM, and one of the PFIs (TDB) have prior
experience of equipment procurement and consultant selection; the other PFI (Golomt Bank) does not. IDA
will familiarize the other PFI and any that may become eligible in the future with IDA procurement
procedures. Procurement arrangements will be made in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD loans and IDA credits, dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999.



Page 39                                          ANNEX 6
Table A6.3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements - to update
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                       Total Cost
ICB     NCB        Other9         N.B.F      (incL.contingencies)
8
1. On-lending under credit line                           12.0                         12.0
10                                                       (10.0)                       (10.0)
2.Goods
Computer hardware & other           0.606                  0.078                        0.528
support equipment                   (0.375)11             (0.065)                      (0.44)12
3. Services
Training and study tours                                   0.716                        0.716
(0.597)                     (0.597)13
Consulting services and others                             0.646                        0.646
(0.538)                      (0.538)14
Unallocated                                                0.425                        0.425
(0.425)                      (0.425)
Total                                                     14.315                       14.315
_______________________________     _________  ______     (12.0)                       (12.0)
NB. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/lDA credit
IDA Prior Review. All contracts for individual consultant services above US$50,000 and consulting firms
above US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval. All contracts for equipment valued at
US$50,000 and above will be subject to prior review by IDA (except for those under the Line of Credit).
Contracts for equipment not subject to prior review will be audited on an ex-post basis, on the basis of a
sampling ratio of 1:4 (i.e., I of every 4 "post-review" contracts would be reviewed by a procurement officer).
In addition, IDA will review the Borrower's evaluation of consultant proposals.
8 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust
funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
9 "Other" includes procurement by means of shopping for goods and various consultant selection procedures including QCBS
and single source. Procurement under sub-loans will follow normal commercial practices.
10 Eligible expenditures under the credit line include goods, services, civil works (excluding real estate) leasing arrangements
and incremental working capital. (See Annex 2 for details) Procurement under sub-loans will follow normal commercial
practices.
11 T & D Bank will use consultants to define the exact nature of their equipment needs for the IT and accounting systems.
Accordingly, it is undetermined at this stage whether the equipment procurement would be in one or two large packages - in
which case it would be procured by means of ICB (if over US$250,000) or several smaller packages, in which case it would be
procured by means of international shopping. The procurement method selected will be fully in compliance with World Bank
procedures.
12 Equipment includes US$55,000 equipment for CIB, US$375,000 equipment for TDB, and US$10,400 small equipment items
as part of the project coordination costs covered under the TA for the CWG.
13 Training includes US$12,940 training for CIB, US$257,000 training for BOM, US$150,000 training Golomt Bank and
US$39,600 training CWG.
14 Consulting services and others includes US$32,970 for CIB software development and application, US$105,000 for TDB,
US$250,000 for Golomt Bank which includes an audit ($50,000), and US$150,000 for CWG which includes US$90,000 for
project audits and US$60,000 for project coordination costs.



Page 40                                       ANNEX 6
Table A 6.4: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(Includes Audits - in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services by                       Selection Method
Expenditure Category
QCBS    QBS    SFB            LCS           CQ           Other
A. Firms                  0.200      -               0.14015                     0.033 16
B. Individuals                                                      0.16517
TOTAL             0.2                        0.140          0.165        0.033
Note:   QCBS=Quality- and Cost-based Selection; QBS=Quality-based Selection; SFB=Selection under a fixed budget;
LCS=Least-cost selection; CQ=Selection based on consultants' qualifications; Other=Selection of individual
consultants (per section V of Consultant Guidelines), etc.
Consultancy services. For the two PFIs, consulting firms or individual consultants will be retained to provide
technical assistance and training. Procurement of consultancy services for Golomt Bank (US$200,000) is
being pursued on the basis of quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS), and has been advertised in
Development Business. For TDB (US$125,000) it is expected that two individual consultants will be
contracted to provide technical assistance in (i) developing their IT systems and (ii) designing and coordinating
TDB staff training program. Consulting services for CIB, BOM software development and application will be
procured by means of sole sourcing due to the very small size of the assignment (US$33,000). The annual
project audits under the TA component for CWG will be procured by means of less-cost-selection as is usual
for audits. The local consultant to act as Project Coordinator has been selected by consultant qualifications.
Line of Credit. Under the line of credit, a typical loan size is expected to be US$300,000, up to a maximum
of US$750,000. Procurement of goods and works and services under the line of credit will be procured by
means of normal commercial practices.
IDA Review of Sub-projects. The threshold level for Bank prior review of sub-projects will be US$350,000
(except for the first 5 sub-projects of each PFI, which will be reviewed by IDA regardless of size). Below this
threshold, IDA would simply check the proposed sub-project summary description against the agreed
eligibility criteria before authorizing withdrawal from the Loan Account for the concemed sub-project. Above
this threshold limit, a comprehensive sub-project proposal would be submitted for IDA's review. IDA would
review this documentation and seek further clarifications as required, to ensure that the PFI had conducted a
full and appropriate assessment of the sub-project's commercial viability, in addition to checking the sub-
project's compliance with the eligibility criteria, prior to providing its no-objection to the proposed sub-
projects.
15 Includes 3 annual project audits ($90,000) and audit for Golomt Bank ($50,000).
16 For CIB software development and application, sole sourcing was selected due to the very small size of this
assignment.
17 Includes Local consultant as Project Coordinator and TA by intemational consultants for TDB.



Page 41                                                ANNEX 6
Table A6.5: Procurement Plan
(Calendar years)
Mongolia  Private Sector Development Project
Est Cost  Selection /           Request      Invite     Award   Iniplemen-
US     Procurenmnt         Expressions   Proposals  Contract    aion
million   Method              of Interest/    IBids
Advertise
SUB PROJECTS (a)                               10.00  commercial               n/a                               99-2002
practices
EQUIPMENT (US$0.44 m)
Ministry of Finance (CWG)
Small equipment items for project coordination  0.010   Shopping               n/a                                   1999
Bank ofMongolia
CIB                                          0.055   Shopping                n/a                   9/1999      99-2000
T&D Bank
Equipment and Software (b)                   0.375   ICB/Shopping        6/1999        10/1999       12/99    99- 2000
CONSULTING AND OTHER (USSO.538 m) (c)
Ministry of Finance/CWG
Project Coordinator and related costs        0.060   Consultants Qual.       4/1999                4/1999      99-2002
Project Audit                                0.090   Less-Cost
Bank of Mongolia
CIB - software                               0.033   Single Source (d)       n/a                   9/1999      99-2000
Golomt Bank
Audit                                        0.050   Less Cost Select                               98-99        98-99
Intemational experts                         0.200  QCBS                     2/1999   6/1999       9/1999      99-2001
T&D Bank
International experts                        0.105   Consultants Qual.                             5/1999      99-2000
TRAINING (US$0.597 m)
Bank of Mongolia                               0.287                           n/a                               99-2002
CWG                                            0.040                           n/a                               99-2002
Golomt Bank                                    0.150                                                             99-2002
T&D Bank                                       0.120                                                             99-2002
UNALLOCATED TA (USSO.425 m)                    0.425  tbd
Total                                         12.000
a.  Eligible expenditures under the credit line include goods, services, civil works (excluding real estate) leasing arrangements and incremental
working capital. (See Annex 2 for details) Procurement under sub-loans will follow normal commercial practices.
b.  T & D Bank will use consultants to define the exact nature of their equipment needs for the IT and accounting systems. Accordingly, it is
undetermined at this stage whether the equipment procurement would be in one or two large packages - in which case it would be procured
by means of ICB (if over US$250,000) or several smaller packages, in which case it would be procured by means of intemational shopping.
The procurement method selected will be fully in compliance with World Bank procedures.
c.  Consulting services and others includes US$33,000 for CIB software development and application, US$105,000 for TDB, US$250,000 for
Golomt Bank which includes an audit ($50,000), and US$150,000 for CWG which includes US$90,000 for project audits and US$60,000
for project coordination costs.
d.  Single source procurement is selected due to the very small size of the assignment, which involves the application and development of
software for CIB.
e.  The majority of the unallocated resources are expected to be used for consultancy services, procured appropriately; however some portion
of this may also be used for training.



Page 42                                    ANNEX 6
(3) Financial Management Systems
The financial management systems review for the PSDC was carried out by Arthur Anderson (Hong Kong),
under Terms of Reference prepared by, and under the supervision of, the Project's FMS certified financial
management specialist. AA review found the project's current financial management systems to be inadequate
and recommended a time-bound action plan in order to meet the Bank's minimal standards. The agreed action
plan is set out below.
Action Plan for Financial Management Systems
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cmt~by^1 
1. Preparation and Finalization of the Project Financial    Bank - FMS  April 18, 1999
Management Systems Manual
2. Hiring of a Project Coordinator (PC)            CWG              April 25, 1999
3. Provision of computer and other required facilities for   CWG    April 25, 1999
PC.
4. Training of Project Coordinator in preparing the  AA             April 26, 1999
Project Management Reports according to the agreed
formats.
5. Training of the PC on the use of the Financial  AA               April 30,1999
Management Systems Manual (already contracted)
6. Training the PC on IDA procedures in disbursements,   Bank       December 1999
procurements and FMS.
7. Auditor selected, Bank approval                CWG               By first project disbursement
CWG = Counterpart Working Group, Bank = World Bank, Bank-FMS = World Bank Financial
Management Specialist, AA.= Arthur Andersen, Mongolia Audit LLC.
Agreement has been reached with the Borrower on the formats to be used for the Project's financial
management reporting (PMR's) and are attached to the Minutes of Negotiation. The agreed PMR include the
Output Monitoring Report (OMP) which has been derived from the Project's Key Performance Indicators and
is set in the following Table:
Private Sector Development Credit: Output Monitoring Report
:~~~~~~~~                                       I
Plan [Actual ctd\a  Plan ]Actual ctd\a  Plan ] Actual ctd\a  Plan I Actual Ictd\a
icr    ,,,  (# 013 ~~~7 ,Mm               M,53 -3mr[-
Approved (#s)             8  _     _        12        _       12                 I 
Committed (US$)         2.4  _3.6  _3.6 _.0.4
Disbursed (US$)          1.8               3.3 __3.3 _1.6
CWG
Project coordinator \b
Contract award          N/A               N/A                N/A               N/A
Contract implementation   25               30                30                 8
(% of value)                                              _ 



Page 43                                      ANNEX 6
Project Activities           FY 200             FYVO                F.2                FY200
Plan Actual ctda  Pltd\a  Plan A ct    an  Actual ctd\a  Planctutual ctd\a
Project audit
Contract award              1                  I                  I                N/A
Contract implementation                       100                100
(% of value)                    _ _____
BOM
CIB
Contract award              1               N/A                N/A                 N/A
Contract implementation     80                 20               N/A                N/A
(% of value)
Golomt
Institutional
Development Program
Contract award              1               N/A                N/A                 N/A_
Contract implementation    20                  65                 15               N/A
(% of value)                                 _    _
TDB
Credit management
system renewal
Contract award               I               N/A                N/A _              N/A
Contract implementation    70                  30               N/A                N/A
(% of value)                        _____
Training program update
Contract award              2               N/A                N/A                 N/A
Contract implementation    40                  50                 10               N/A
(% of value)                _       __     _                         _            _     _
Training (person/month)
CW                          2                --              T -  _ __ _ ____
C W2G                       2                  2                  2 _N N/Aj
BOM                         7  =      =       15  =       _      10                N/A          =
Golomt                     10                 22  _              22       _        N/A
TDB                        12                 25                 15                N/A
Goods   ___                                       __                 __
CWG
Contract award              2               N/A                 N/A       |_ | N/A
Contract implementation    100              N/A                N/A                 N/A
(% of value)            _____
BOM/CIB
Contract award              1 1             N/A _        _     N/A                 N/A
Contract implementation    601                 40               N/A                N/A
(% of value)            _____
TDB
Contract award              1               N/A                 N/A                N/A|
Contract implementation    80                 20               N/A                 N/A
(%   of value)                I     I        I   I_L__ __________
\a Cumulative to date.
\b Contract between CWG and project coordinator is a condition for negotiation and the estimated contract
implementation in FY99 is 7 percent.



Page 44                                    ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Mongolia: Private Sector Development Project
Project Entities The PSDC has the following project entities: the MOF, BOM, and PFIs.
Counterpart Working Group Reflecting its commitment to the success of PSDC, the Government of
Mongolia (GOM) has agreed to establish a high-level CWG. The CWG will be comprised of at least five
individuals, including two representatives from the MOF, two from the BOM and one representative of the
Mongolian Employers Federation. The Director, Restructuring Policy Department of MOF will lead the group.
IDA has agreed to provide assistance to the CWG by financing a project coordinator and project related
training activities of CWG members. The GOM will try its best to keep the members of the CWG constant for
the three year life of the project to ensure continuity and accountability, and to adjust their work-loads with the
respective ministries to ensure that they have the time necessary to support the successful implementation of
the Project. The relationship between CWG members is defined in the Project Coordination Agreement to be
assigned by MOF and BOM at the time of the signing of the other project legal documents.
The CWG will be responsible for the overall project coordination and implementation, as well as for the
execution of the CWG technical assistance. In addition to the regular meetings mentioned in the Borrower
Participation section (see below), the group may meet on an ad hoc basis on any major project coordination or
policy issues brought to its attention by either project entities or the project coordinator. The CWG may invite
project entity representatives and IDA's field representative to a meeting if the situation requires. The CWG,
with assistance from IDA, will select and supervise the work of the project coordinator.
Project Coordinator To assist the work of the CWG, and to act as a link between the CWG and IDA, a full-
time local consultant will be recruited by April 25, 1999 as project coordinator. The project coordinator
reports to the CWG, and participates in CWG meetings as an observer. The qualifications and responsibilities
of the project coordinator are set out in the Terms of Reference of Project Coordinator (Annex 2, Attachment
5).
Project Financial Management MOF is responsible for maintaining adequate project financial management
systems, including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems to ensure that IDA receives accurate
and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures. Requirements for adequate project
financial management systems are incorporated as part of the financial covenants of the PSDC legal
documents. For project disbursement purposes, MOF is responsible for compliance with the Disbursement
Letter, including regular replenishment applications of the two special accounts to be opened under PSDC.
PFIs should maintain all project documentation, including evidence of expenses under TA component and sub-
loans.
Borrower Participation In addition to the CWG, representatives from all the various project entities,
receiving assistance under the Project, or on-lending project resources: namely, the MOF/CWG, BOM, and
PFIs. In addition, they would be expected to participate directly in a number of supervision activities. There
will be four types of participatory interventions:
* Quarterly Progress Reviews. The CWG, with the participation of the Project Coordinator, will meet
quarterly to assess the progress of the project, opportunities for improvement and subsequent actions.
* Semi-annual Reviews, timed to coincide with IDA supervision missions, will review all aspects of project
implementation. As part of this review, site visits will be made to sample the project beneficiaries under



Page 45                                   ANNEX7
the line of credit component, to survey the impact of project activities. A joint-meeting, involving all
project entities and IDA will be held to discuss project progress and related issues.
* Performance Improvement Workshop, will be held in the case that the above events identify project
performance below expectation or areas for improvement. A typical performance improvement workshop
should include working groups (whose members should represent beneficiaries, implementing agencies
and financiers) to define current progress, relate it to objectives, define the performance gap and then
generate recommendations to improve design and/or implementation; and
*  Mid-Term Evaluation Workshop, will involve an assessment of Mid-Term impact on project beneficiaries
and the effectiveness of the project design, with all stakeholders and direct beneficiaries represented.
* Reporting Requirements. Project entities are required to prepare and submit a number of reports for IDA
review. These include: semi-annual progress reports of the project as a whole (including budget
information), compiled by the project coordinator from information submitted by the various project
entities; brief reports outlining the findings and lessons of the training and study tour activities financed
from project proceeds, and prepared by the direct participants in these activities. In addition, the borrower
will furnish additional reports to IDA on individual aspects of the project as reasonably requested.
Project Implementation Schedule The project is expected to be implemented in three years, although the
project account may be closed six months after the completion of the project for the purpose of sub-loan
disbursement. The indicative project implementation schedule is shown in Table 1 below.
Table Al l. 1. Indicative Project Implementation Schedule for PSDC
FY99         FYOO                FYO1               FY02              FY03
Q4  Q Q2Q3   Q1  Q2Q3 Q4 Q  Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3
Credit Timing        __ __        _
Signing                _
Effectiveness
Closing-
TA Component
CWG                      _i_
project coordinator    _
training                     _  -    _          _   _             -   -
BOM
training                                                                              -
CIB                         =          -_=
TDB
consultancy                          ______
training                              - _          -         -        -
GB
external audit
consultant services                ___ _  _              __ _-
training                     -            =                                                -    -
L/C Component
Sub-loan Approval                   .
Loan Disbursement                       _   _



Page 46                                     ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PFIs
Mongolia: Private Sector Development Project -
The PFIs are responsible for choosing the most creditworthy sub-borrowers, negotiating the most appropriate
loan structure, monitoring the progress of each project after the related loan has been granted and, finally and
most importantly, collecting each loan at maturity. The PSDC will not be successful if the PFIs do not
demonstrate good underwriting procedures and conscientiously ensure that each underlying subborrower
meets its obligations in a timely fashion. Accordingly, it is important to thoroughly examine each potential
PFI before granting eligibility and to continue to monitor their performance to ensure compliance on an
ongoing basis.
Eligibility criteria for PFIs comprise three general categories-compliance, other financial issues, and credit
culture-each of which must be satisfactorily addressed before granting approval to the potential PFI. These
criteria are to be considered guidelines, albeit very important guidelines, since no two banks will present the
same profile or the same set of financial circumstances. A summary of the recommended eligibility criteria is
as follows:
Compliance - for at least the last six months  Other Financial Issues   Credit Culture
Prudential regulations                   Size                   Credit policies
Capital adequacy                 Portfolio quality       Credit procedures
Liquidity                        Loan loss reserve       Organizational structure
Maximum loan                     adequacy                Staffing
Insider lending                  Audited financial       Management quality
Loan loss reserve                statements              Corporate governance
FX exposure                      Profitability           Shareholder influence
Banking Law                              Asset/liability
Other                                    management
Credit ceilings                  Startup banks
Taxes                            Corporate governance
MIS
Compliance. To be considered as a possible PFI, the commercial bank needs to be in-compliance with the
following prudential norms, for at least the previous six months. (Note : with IDA approval, commercial
banks with an acceptable time-bound action plan to move into full compliance with these norms may also be
considered):
*  Capital adequacy. The minimum level of adjusted equity capital shall be not less than 10 percent of risk-
weighted total assets.
*  Liquidity. The minimum level of liquid assets shall be not less than 18 percent of total deposits and
borrowed funds.
*  Maximum loan. The maximum loan to any one borrower shall not exceed 20 percent of total capital.
*  Insider loans.  The maximum loan to any one insider shall not exceed 5 percent of total capital.
Aggregate loans to all insiders shall not exceed 20 percent of capital.
*  Loan loss reserve. The loan loss reserve shall be calculated based on the classification system: I percent
for Pass and Overdue, 25 percent against Substandard, 50 percent against Doubtful and 100 percent
against Loss.
*  Foreign exchange. Net foreign currency exposure (either long or short) against the Togrog will not be
greater than 20 percent of the bank's total capital.



Page 47                                    ANNEX 8
In addition to the prudential regulations, a prospective participant bank should be:
* in compliance with the Borrower's tax laws and regulations during the last six months and
* have a minimum of two years of operation, and be
*  in compliance with the PFIs respective Plan of Actions, if applicable.
Other financial issues. Candidate banks should have satisfactory financial performance as confirmed by
external audit of financial statement by independent auditors acceptable to the Association for the prior fiscal
year and updated information of satisfactory financial performance for the preceding twelve months as
confirmed by BOM through their on-going supervision. As a general practice the financial condition of the
candidate banks should be reviewed historically as well as currently to detect any trends which might affect its
future performance. Financial reviews should be made regularly to monitor ongoing performance of the
banks. The financial issues to consider include:
* Portfolio quality. The quality of a bank's existing loan portfolio will be one of the best indicators of its
ability to make good loans in the future. Loan classification policies and procedures should follow
internationally accepted principles. It is important to ensure that the bank's rating of its own loans is
accurate and not overly optimistic. Comparison of the bank's own ratings with those of the BOM Bank
Supervision Department during its most recent on-site inspection should be made. A direct review of a
sample of the loan portfolio should also be made. Changes in portfolio quality should be examined over a
period of time to determine if the bank's lending practices are improving or getting worse.
* Loan loss reserve adequacy. The adequacy of the reserve should be measured against the standards
established by the BOM.
 Audited,financial statements. An external audit should be provided before a bank is accepted as a PFI.
An international audit would be preferable but, at the very least, an audit by an independent Mongolian
firm should be provided.
- Profitability. A participating bank should be profitable, preferably with a track record of earnings over at
least the past two years.
, Asset/liability management. A review should be made of the bank's policies and procedures with respect
to interest rate and maturity gap management and limits and other asset/liability issues.
* Corporate governance. To be eligible, a bank should have an active and experienced Board of Directors
(Shareholder's Committee). It should include an Audit Committee, to which the bank's internal audit
function reports directly.
- MIS. The bank should have sufficient management information systems to be able to monitor the overall
quality of its loan portfolio on a regular basis.
* Size. The small size of a bank should not automatically exclude it from consideration although it should
be recognized that the prudential regulation governing the maximum loan to any one borrower might limit
the bank's ability to participate in the program in a meaningful way.
* Startup banks. Startup banks will not be eligible to participate. A minimum of at least two years
operational experience should be required.
Credit Culture. A strong credit culture is an essential element to make a commercial bank a potential
candidate for the PSDC. Key factors to be considered are:
* Credit policies and procedure. The bank should have a written credit policy which has been approved by
the Board of Directors and is regularly followed by management and employees of the bank. The Board
of Directors (Shareholder's Committee) should be actively involved in the oversight of the lending
process, beginning with the review and approval of the credit policy. Portfolio quality should be reviewed
regularly at Board meetings, and unusually large loans should be approved by the Board. Credit
procedures should cover such issues as loan approval procedures, lending authorities, classification
procedures, monitoring requirements, collection procedures, etc.



Page 48                                    ANNEX 8
*  Organizational structure. The bank should have a designated Senior Lending Officer with overall
responsibility for credit throughout the institution. A Credit Committee should approve new loans and
monitor overall portfolio quality on an ongoing basis. A Loan Review Department should independently
verify the classification of the loans in the portfolio. A Loan Workout Department should collect problem
loans.
*  Staffing. An assessment should be made of the numbers of lending officers and their relevant experience.
In case of deficiencies, the bank should have a program for human resource development and provide
training to improve staff skills.
*  Management quality.  This assessment is very subjective but should be reflected in the bank's
performance against the criteria. It should be supplemented by face to face meetings with all senior
managers.
*  Shareholder influence. A number of banks in Mongolia are owned, at least partially, by large, state-
owned corporations. An examination should be made to determine that these shareholders do not unduly
influence the decisions of management, except through the proper activities of the Board of Directors
Continuing Eligibility for PFIs. The Borrower, through the CWG and with the assistance of BOM, shall
supervise the PFIs, on a quarterly basis, to determine their continuing eligibility to participate under the credit
line. This continuing eligibility shall be based on the PFI's compliance with the eligibility criteria outlined
above, as determined by the CWG based on written status updates issued by BOM, and the following
performance under the PSDC credit line, as defined by the following criteria;
(a) the PFI has made at least three Sub-loans during the previous calendar year; and
(b) no more than 20percent of the PFI's Sub-loans portfolio is in non-performing status.
In the event that a PFI is found not to be in compliance with the eligibility criteria, the Borrower, through
CWG, shall, with the prior approval of the Association, determine whether the PFI concerned shall prepare
and implement a Plan of Actions or be excluded from the Project.
With the prior approval of the Association, the Borrower, through the CWG, acting upon a written
recommendation and justification made by BOM, may allow additional commercial banks that meet the
eligibility criteria (see above) to participate in the credit line. In this case, the Borrower, through MOF, shall
enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with the selected commercial bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, and the Association may enter into a Project Agreement with the new PFI.



Page 49                                   ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Mongolia Private Sector Development Project
Planned            Actual
(At final PCD stage)     (as of
2/112/99)
A. Project Budget
Budget (FY 98 P150, A105, FY99 P80, A31)                 $230,000           $135,300
PHRD TF                                                  $430,000           $350,000
B. Project Schedule                                            7 months (a)
Time taken to prepare the project: 19 months
Identification Mission (completed)                             09/15-26/97
Preappraisal Mission (completed)                              01/21-02/04/98
Follow-up Mission (completed)                                  05/04-08/98
Appraisal Mission(s) (completed)                        06/29-07/07/98 & 12/2-7/98
Credit Negotiations                                          3/17/99- 3/25/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                     8/99
Preparation Assistance: PHRD TF
Name                                           Title
Amanda Carlier                                 Task Manager
Lynn Ground                               Resident Representative
Carlos Escudero                             Senior Legal Counsel
Rosa Muleta                                Disbursement Officer
Sandra Durham                          Financial Management Specialist
R.I. Gopalkrishnan                      (Consultant) Procurement Officer
Xiaofeng Hua                           Consultant, Financial Economist
Luca Papi                            Consultant, Financial Economist
Paul Vonckx                           Consultant, Commercial Banker
(a) delay due to the resignation of the Government in July 1998.



Page 50                                    ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Mongolia: Private Sector Development Project
Anderson, James. 1997. "An Introduction to Mongolia's Informal Sector" (mimeo); Washington, DC, March.
Asian Development Bank. 1996. Financial Sector Program Loan; Manila, December.
Campaign, Daniele. 1997. Bank Paribas, Review of ITI Bank. August.
Hahm, Hongjoo. "Private Sector Development in a Small Open Economy: The Case of Mongolia." World
Bank Discussion Paper No. 238. (Washington DC: 1993).
Hahm, Hongjoo and Demir Yener. 1998. Financial Sector Reforms in Mongolia, EDI Working Papers.
Washington, DC, January.
International Monetary Fund, MAE, FAD, and APD. various documents. 1997-98.
Murrell, Peter, Georges Korsun, and James Anderson. 1998. "Survey of Mongolia Private Entrepreneurs,"
University of Maryland, (mimeo, in three parts).
World Bank. 1997. Country Economic Memorandum: Policies for Faster Growth (Report No. 16749-MOG);
Washington, DC, August.
1997. Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (Report No. P-7020-MOG); Washington, DC, March.
1997. Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (Report No. P-7040-MOG); Washington,
DC, March.
1996. Public Enterprise Review: Haf way through Reforms (Report No. 15875-MOG); Washington, DC,
November.
e  Assessments of the Commercial banks - T&D Bank, Golomt Bank and ITI Bank by mission teams in
1998.
*  Audited Financial Statements for Golomt and T&D Banks.
*  English translation of The Mongolian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment.
*  (to be included) Resettlement Policy Framework
*  (to be included) FMS review



Page 51                                          ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MONGOLIA
Operations Portfolio
As of 08-Feb-99
Fiscal                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions
Project ID   Year       Borrower            Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations   Undisbursed
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Projects
MN-PE-36052   1998  GOM                Ulaanbaatar Serv.Imp      0.00     16.70       0.00         16.83
MN-PE-51855   1998                     Mn-Fiscal Acctg Ta         0.00     5.00       0.00          5.34
MN-PE-47683   1997                     Bank,Ent,Leg,Ta(Belt ac   0.00      2.00       0.00          1.39
MN-PE-35697   1996  Mongolian          Mongolia Coal Proj.       0.00     35.00       0.00          7.64
Government
MN-PE-36417   1996  GOM                Prot. of Vulnerable        0.00    10.00       0.00          4.87
MN-PE-4342    1994                     Transport Rehabilitation  0.00     30.00       0.00          9.16
Total                                                            0.00     98.70       0.00         45.23
Active Projects        Closed Projects             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   51.94              66.11                  118.05
of which has been repaid:                       0.00               0.00                    0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   98.70              64.17                  162.87
Amount sold:                                       0.00               0.00                    0.00
Of which repaid:                                 0.00                0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed:                                45.23               0.00                   45.23
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is current as of 31-Jan-99.
STATEMENT OF IFC'S COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO- Mongolia
As of 3 1-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                 SEF G&M Leather          1.05        .20      0.00      0.00    1.05       .20      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                  1.05       .20       0.00     0.00    1.05        .20     0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00



Page 52                                            ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: MONGOLIA AT A GLANCE
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia 6.    Low,                
Mongolia    Pacific  income        Development diamond*
1t997
Population, mnid-year (millions)                        2,6     1 753    :2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methiod. US$)                   1390        970       350
GNP (Atlas method, UJ$$Iilos                            1.0     1.707       722:
Average annual growth ~1991-97 
Population ()2.1                                                  1.3       2,1
Labor foree(%                                          2.9        1.4       2.3      GNP                              Gross
iper                            primary
Most rec,enteastimate (lat.st yar avallabta, 199147)                                 capita                       enrollment
Povefty (% of popultion below national povefty line)    38
Urban population (6 of total popu.tlaon)                62         32        2
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68         69        59~
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bitlhs)                52         38        78
Child malnutrition (16 of children under 5)             1 2        18        61Access to safe water
Access to saewataer(% of popvlation)                     .         84        TI
Illiteracy (16 of population age 15+)                   17        .17        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   88        113        91            -.....Mongolia
Male                                                  87        118l      10             ___ Low-income group
Female                                                91)       1186       81
KEY EzCONOMIC RtATIOS and LONG-TERM TRIENDS
1976E    1ss6      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GOP~ (us$ billions)                             ..       ..       0.7      086
Grossi domesteic nvestmenttODP                  .      57A4      22,4      22.4Trd
Exiports of goods and servicesGOP               ..    2.9        43.5      54.8                      rd
Gross domestic savings/GOP                      .      19.1      20.2      21.9
Gross national savings/GDP                      .         .      18.9      20.8
current account balancelGP                      .        .      -02        -.
Interest payMents/GDP                                    m.       0.8       2.2     Domestic                     Investment
Total debl/GDP                                  .         .      54.0      812       Sang
Total debt servce/exports                       .                 9.7         -
Present value of debt/GDP                       .        .       31.8
Present value of debt/exports                  6.        .        2.4
Indebtedness
1978-86, 1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(averag eannual gro wth)
GDP                                  86.7     -1.4      2.8       3.3                          -Mongolia
GNP'per capita                       3.9      -23      -0.1       1.2        ..___Low-income group
Exports of goods and servces           .        .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996       1997     Cotlrtso  uptadivsmn  %
(16 of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..      16.3      30.9      36.6      1
Industry                                       ..     37.7       35.4      23.5      5
Manufacturing                                                                       O. ..1~~
Services                                       ..     46.0       33.7      39.7                        14  11       6 9
Private consumption                            ..      50.8      63.9         -      i
General government consumption                 ..      30.2      15.9        ..GD0    -.*-)-GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..     65.3      45.7      59.5      _____________________
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   4.2       4.4       4.7
Industry                                      8.2     -4.2        0.1
Manufacturing                                 .
Services                                      6.4      -2.5       3.5
Private consumption                             .
General government ronsumption                  .
Gross domestic investment                       .
Imports of goods and services                   .
Gross national product                        6.9       0.0       2.0       3.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 53                                            ANNEX 12
Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      -nflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    2300
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  -                                  200
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    -9.2       21.0      23.8    1100
Govemment finance                             -                                      00
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                          2 o         94   95 9, 
Current revenue                                 ..    46.5       27.8      30.5             92   93   94   95   99   97
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       4.9       2.6   -|  _GDP ceflator  -O-*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              .            -8.7    -10.4
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millons)
Total exports (fob)                              .     716        423       461     600
Copper                                         ..      ..       155
Meet                                                             23        3       00       N
Manufactures                                                     23               40.
Total imports (cif)                                   1,140       511       503
Food                                           .        ..      10920
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..       129
Capital goods                                 ..       ..       128                       92   92  94   9S  96   97
91 92 9        94 9       9    9
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..                                             * Exports     g Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                    .     825        481       516      0                                 NW
Imports of goods and services                   ..   1,884        571      562       -   9    92         * _
Resource balance                                     -1,059       -90       -46
Net income                                      ..       2        -15       -11      -4--
Net current transfers                                   -2 0        6         4      -6
Current account balance                         ..  -1,061        -99       -53     -8                             3
Financing items (net)                                 1,060        86       117    lo                              1
Changes in net reserves                         ..       0         13       -64    -121
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..        98       137
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                ..       ..    548.4    790.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        7       524       718
IBRD                                                   0          0        0                      G:27     8.97
IDA                                                              68       97               F 57
Total debt service                                        0        48        61
IBRD                                          .        0          0        0
IDA                                           ..       0          0         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       0         60       60
Official creditors                                     0         74      209          E: 299
Private creditors                                      4        -20         9                                  D:90
Foreign direct investment                      -       0          5         7
Portfolio equity                                       0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                            0         35        29     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                          0         11        34     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          ..       0          0         0    IC - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..       0         11       34
Interest payrnents                            ..       0          0         1
Net transfers                                 ..       0         11        33
Development Economics                                                                                                 9130198



15RD 26450
LA<  t               HRUSSIAN FEDERATION]
LGI NA'                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHINA0
INS~~~~~~~~~~~~
A'                                                                                                                         H T, ORO
ASTAY                                                       DONIDIVR
NOV13
BAYANUONGORz-  O A'                                                                                                  OGOI 
Tb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TR
ALTAGY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L F
\~~~~~ s                                     Ot                                                                                              dT i'0Ht. ..E  ns FAIR-WEATHER ROADS, TRACKS OR TRANI5
ADMoETERI 0 5r   100  150  200        \              ;       I                                         OMNOGOB}.                        \.I E   . . . A..  H t.bA-                       --- AL-V/FATTER SARD OR LOeSESURFACE ROADS
-0~~                                                                                                                                             -   RAILROADS
AIV,AYNEER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                              IRET
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NENTOA IPR
ULES r so T 150 200 Ci 4E S o SE ECTEDTO NS VILLAGES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERCRDSOY-S/ ILOF
,                                              ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AIMAIK CAPITALS
Gsni.A TAay  otbs ;nf n                                       0                                                                                               NTONALCAPITAL
sh~~~A_l o hsmpd a flISyRe oea 50e WalA dasA 5,sL                                                                  m                                                                      AhAAK dOUNDARES
-    RVERTNAT ONAL dOANDARIES
rAIR WEATHER ROADS, TOACOEERR1rRA



