Report No. PID6779
PID6779.TXT
Project Name                     Mongolia-Private Sector Development (@+) ...
Credit
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Project ID                       MNPE49789
Borrower                         Mongolia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Bank of Mongolia (BOM)
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
Appraisal Date                   November 1998
Board Date                       May 25 1999
Date of this PID                 April 12, 1999
Recent Economic Development
The reform strategy of the Government of Mongolia comprises three key
elements: establishing macroeconomic stability, reducing the size of the state
sector, and fostering private sector development. Important steps have already
been taken to liberalize and stabilize the economy, revamp the enterprise
privatization process, and reorganize the banking sector. Prices and wages
have been liberalized, all import tariffs have been abolished, and the
exchange rate is fully market-determined. On the legal side, important laws
have been passed. Visible success has been also achieved on the macroeconomic
front, which is moving to create a conducive environment for private sector
development.
After four years of economic decline following Mongolia's transition to a
market economy, growth resumed in 1994. It peaked at 6.3 percent on the back
of the 1995 copper price boom, only to fall back to 2.6 percent, when copper
prices fell by 25 percent in 1996. Growth edged up to 4.0 percent in 1997,
driven by rapid expansion in the mining and services sectors. Tight monetary
policy forced down CPI inflation. At end-1997 it dipped below 20 percent,
down from over 50 percent as recent as June.
Economic conditions deteriorated in 1998, as the Asian and Russian crises
deepened, and export prices fell sharply. The terms of trade shock had a
significant impact on external performance. The prices of Mongolian exports,
especially copper, dropped. Imports surged, spurred by the decline in
external import prices (as a result of the sharp devaluation of many East
Asian currencies), the elimination of virtually all import duties, higher
domestic incomes in US dollar terms, and a large expansion in short-term
capital inflows. Given the severity of the external shocks and political
crises, macroeconomic performance in 1998 was surprisingly resilient. Real
GDP growth slowed only modestly, to 3.5 percent, and inflationary pressures
continued to abate--consumer prices increased by just 6 percent in the year to
December 1998.
Sector Background



Important steps were taken in the face of the 1996 banking crises to
reorganize the banking sector. In December 1996, two large, insolvent and
inviable banks were liquidated, and a Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency was
established with funding from Government to purchase the assets of the two
liquidated banks. The liabilities and the performing assets of these
insolvent banks were transferred to two new institutions: the Savings Bank
(which inherited all household deposits), and the Reconstruction Bank (which
inherited all nonhousehold performing claims). Most nonperforming inherited
and directed loans that were removed from commercial banks' balance sheets
were replaced by interest-bearing government bonds. A central register of
defaulting borrowers (Credit Information Bureau) was also established, and all
commercial banks are now forbidden from extending new credit to defaulting
borrowers. In addition, banks are required to adopt vigorous loan recovery
measures, and recently they have set up loan work-out units.
Despite these measures, the banking system is not yet stable, with many banks
failing to meet BOM prudential requirements. The legal environment for credit
remains fragile, although recent changes in the Insolvency Law have shifted
power to creditors. Few alternatives to the banking system have developed:
the stock market is highly illiquid, and insurance and leasing businesses are
embryonic. There thus remains large impediments to an efficiently functioning
banking system and financial intermediation continues to be stifled.
Mongolian banks are unable to provide long-term finance. The current bank
credit structure is such that more than 95 percent of loans have maturities of
less than one year. A high-risk environment and the existence of supply
constraints explain why Mongolian banks have not engaged in term finance.
Mongolian commercial banks perceive lending to be a high risk activity because
of the large number of defaulters, and because relationships between borrowers
and lenders are still very young. Supply constraints relate both to lack of
availability of funds as well as weak institutional capacity. Mongolian
commercial banks have limited ability to select potential borrowers and design
long term loans, and private entrepreneurs lack the skills to prepare
'bankable' projects. Commercial banking is a relatively new activity, and
foreign banks, which are usually an important vehicle for transferring and
promoting credit skills, are just about to enter the market. Short-term loans
are uniformly given, and loans are usually documented by rudimentary credit
agreements.
There are now 16 commercial banks in Mongolia. In spite the number of banks,
the level of financial intermediation remains low. The banking system is
highly concentrated. There are five medium-large banks, Trade and Development
Bank (TDB), ITI Bank (ITIB), Golomt Bank (GB), Agriculture Bank, and
Reconstruction Bank, and three of them including ITI Bank, Agriculture Bank
and Reconstruction Bank are insolvent. The remaining 11 banks are tiny in
comparison, the combined assets of 11 small banks is smaller than the assets
of the smallest large bank, and there is very little intermediation through
the smaller banks.
On the other hand, Mongolia's private enterprises, the bank's main borrowers,
face numerous constraints. Foremost is the lack of affordable formal credit
or other financial services, particularly from banks, and the limited reach of
non-banks such as leasing and insurance companies, the shallowness of capital
markets and the lack of institutional investors or other forms of venture
capital. In rural areas, where credit facilities are almost non-existent,
small and medium enterprises lack both investment and working capital.
- 2-



Further constraints to private sector development include: limited
infrastructure which blocks domestic marketing channels and integration with
international markets; lack of utility infrastructure; a weak legal and
judicial framework for property rights, contract enforcement, insolvency,
collateralization and execution of judgments; weak governance structures, and
shortages of managerial, strategic planning, marketing and financial skills.
Project Objectives
The main objectives of the proposed Private Sector Development Credit are:
to support the Borrowers efforts to promote private sector development
to strengthen the institutional capacity of the banking sector.
In particular, the project will: (a) promote private sector development by
increasing the availability of commercial bank term loans to private
enterprises; and (b) increase the institutional capacity of participating
banks by strengthening their financial intermediation function and resource
allocation capabilities, and ; (c) increase the institutional capacity of the
Bank of Mongolia (BOM) by improving its bank supervision function.
Project Description
The first component of the Project will be to provide a credit line to private
entrepreneurs. IDA funds will be provided to the Government, and onlent to
participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), which will then relend the
funds to private sector sub-borrowers in two windows: a foreign currency and a
local currency window. Access to the funds will be on a first-come first-
served basis. Commercial banks will make decisions with IDA approval
regarding subloan applications. PFIs will select sub-borrowers according to
the agreed eligibility based primarily on financial viability of the project,
the financial condition of the sub-borrower, and presentation of satisfactory
business plan. The success of the project will hinge on the ability of the
PFIs to successfully implement the project and on the ability of the final
borrower to make good use of the funds and repay them in a timely manner. It
will also depend on effective supervision of the PFIs by the BOM.
The second component of the Project is technical assistance for the
institutional strengthening of PFIs, BOM and the project Counterpart Working
Group. The TA component comprises of:
Counterpart Working Group. The project would be the first credit line plus
technical assistance credit which the Mongolian Government borrows from IDA.
For the successful implementation of the project, the Government has agreed to
establish a CWG. This subcomponent is to finance mainly the cost of a project
coordinator, annual project audits, and CWG staff training.
Bank of Mongolia. To enhance BOM's role in the implementation of PSDC,
especially in continuous monitoring and supervision of PFIs, technical
assistance would be provided to the training of central banking skills and the
development of a credit information system administered by the Credit
Information Bureau (CIB).
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs). At present, Trade and
Development Bank and Golomt Bank have been found to be eligible to participate
- 3-



in the project as PFIs in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria,
although other commercial banks could participate in the project if they meet
the agreed eligibility criteria at some stage in the future.
Trade and Development Bank (TDB). Technical Assistance to TDB is to build on
a recently concluded twinning program under the Banking, Enterprise and Legal
TA Credit. International expertise would be provided in the renewal of the
credit processing and management system and the development of core
curriculums in commercial banking. Cost of related short term training would
be covered. The TA activities would be closely coordinated with the Asian
Development Bank/Bank of Mongolia Project on Core Banking Accounting System
Renewal.
Golomt Bank (Golomt). Technical assistance to Golomt would focus on external
audit, and the development and implementation of an institutional development
program in the areas of strategic/business planning, MIS development, model
branch development, term-lending capacity building, and human resource
development. Training is an important component of the program.
Procurement of goods under the project shall be conducted in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. Recruitment of consultants shall comply with
the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World bank
Borrowers" published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999.
Benefits
The main direct benefits of this project will derive from the creation of a
market for medium and long term loans and support services for private sector
enterprises. The target group for the line of credit are all eligible private
sector enterprises. Simultaneously, the TA component will help to improve the
institutional capacity of the PFIs. TA will be provided in a number of
commercial banking areas, with special emphasis on developing a higher credit
culture (encouraging PFIs in term lending and applying project-based
evaluation techniques). The emergence of banks that have the resources and
competence to support business activities will greatly improve the environment
for private sector development.
Risks
Failure of Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability and in
implementing its reform programs pose the largest risk for the proposed
project. IDA, in coordination with the IMF, will maintain continuous dialogue
with the Mongolian authorities to ensure the implementation of the
Government's macroeconomic stabilization program. The political environment
poses a secondary risk. In terms of financial intermediation and sub-loan
performance, the risks stem from institutional weakness on the part of the
PFIs, and the inexperience of private enterprises in preparing bankable
projects. These risks are expected to be mitigated by assisting the PFIs in
their institutional development, especially in their appraisal, credit
analysis, and debt collection capabilities. Improved ability by the PFIs to
discriminate credit risks should also help mitigate the risks.
- 4 -



Environmental Aspects
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed Credit is placed in Category
"B/FI" involving intermediary lending. Sub-projects to be financed under the
line of credit would be screened for their environmental impact, if any, and
appropriate actions taken in accordance with the existing environmental
protection laws and regulations (see the attachment).
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Amanda Carlier, Task Manager
Telephone:       (202) 458-7169
Fax:             (202) 522-3454
E-mail: ACarlier@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 23, 1999.
- 5-



ANNEX
Environmental
Individual subprojects applying for investment finance under the line of
credit will be required to obtained a certified approval from the Mongolian
Environmental Protection Agency as part of their application to the PFIs.
Compliance with all national standards and applicable laws and regulations of
the government of Mongolia is one of the eligibility criteria for sub-loans
which must be satisfied prior to sub-loan approval. Both the PFIs and IDA
will ensure that this requirement is met.
- 6-



