              Document of
            The World Bank




                                      Report No: 31419

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (IDA-32260)

                  ON A

                 CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR8.9 MILLION
     (US$12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                   TO

              MONGOLIA

                 FOR A

PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




             February 23, 2005

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective February 2005)

                          Currency Unit = Togrog
                                1 Togrog = US$ 0.000825
                                US$ 1.00 = Togrog 1,212

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1   December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB                  Asian Development Bank
BELTAC               Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
BESAC                Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
BOM                  Bank of Mongolia (Central Bank)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CIB                  Credit Information Bureau
CWG                  Counterpart Working Group
FILs                 Financial Intermediation Loans
FSPL                 Financial Sector Program Loan (ADB)
GTZ                  Gesselscheft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
JICA                 Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOU                  Memorandum of Understanding
PFIs                 Participating Financial Institutions
PSDC                 Private Sector Development Credit
RFP                  Request for Proposals
SLA                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOEs                 State-Owned Enterprises
TA                   Technical Assistance
TDB                  Trade and Development Bank
TOR                  Terms of Reference



                         Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din-Kassum
                      Country Director        David R. Dollar
     Chief Economist and Sector Director      Homi Kharas
                        Sector Manager        Khalid A. Mirza
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Xiaofeng Hua

                                         MONGOLIA
                     PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P049789                                                  Project Name: MN-PRIV.SEC. DEVT CR
Team Leader: Xiaofeng Hua                                            TL Unit: EASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: MN-PRIV.SEC. DEVT CR                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-32260
    Country/Department: MONGOLIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (83%); Banking (15%); Central
                            government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Regulation and
                            competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/15/1997                                     Effective: 12/14/1999                12/14/1999
     Appraisal: 06/24/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/25/1999                                      Closing: 02/28/2003                 08/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MONGOLIA/BOM; MONGOLIA/PFIS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Homi Kharas                                    Hoon Mok Chung
Team Leader at ICR:             Xiaofeng Hua                                   Amanda Carlier
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:
Note: Concerning the project's performance in Institutional Development Impact, a more appropriate rating
would be "Moderately Substantial". It is currently rated SU, because the system does not have a MS or similar
rating category.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. Since 1990, following the establishment of the newly democratic Mongolia,
the country opted for a market-led system. A rapid transition was achieved by `shock therapy'
through three main mechanisms: privatisation, currency reform, and price and wage liberalization.
Mongolia stabilized the economy and implemented a range of reforms including the removal of
most price controls, privatization of small and medium industries, and changes in laws and
regulations to enable private sector activities.

3.1.2. The government recognized that a successful transition would need to be supported by a
sound financial system. In the 1990s, Mongolia put in place the legal infrastructure for a
commercial banking system. Reforms began with the split-up of the state mono-bank into a
central bank, the Bank of Mongolia (BOM), and five commercial banks. In 1991, BOM began
licensing private banks and interest rates were liberalized. Despite these serious initial efforts and
subsequent initiatives to strengthen and liberalize the financial system, the banking sector
experienced recurring crises and failures, most notably in 1994, 1996 and 1998/1999. The sector
appeared to recover substantially after the 1994 and 1996 setbacks, but remains small and fragile.
There was a severe shortage of banking skills, and a need for improvements in the legal and
institutional framework. These weaknesses, together with the narrow range of available financial
services, were constraining the private sector development and the country's economic growth.


3.1.3. Since 1991, the World Bank, and other international financial institutions including the
IMF and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) have contributed funding and technical assistance
to implement the country's transition and reform program, including the stabilization and
restructuring of Mongolia's banking sector. The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) supported the country's growth-oriented program through macroeconomic stabilization,
facilitating private sector development, investing in infrastructure, and promoting greater equity in
development. The Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC) was a part of the broader donor
program and of the World Bank in particular to support the development of the country's private
enterprise and financial sectors. It was also a follow-up to the Banking and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (BESAC) and Banking Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
(BELTAC) and contributed in small parts to the preparation of the Bank's Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC).

3.1.4. Objectives. The main objectives of the PSDC are as follows:

         ·      Support Mongolia's efforts to promote private sector development; and
         ·      Strengthen institutional capacity of the banking sector.

In particular, the project aimed to (1) promote private sector development by increasing the
availability of commercial bank term loans to private enterprises, (2) increase the institutional
capacity of participating banks by strengthening their financial intermediation functions and
resource allocation capabilities, and (3) increase the institutional capacity of the Bank of Mongolia



                                                 - 2 -

(BOM) through improving its bank supervision functions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. There was no revision in the objectives of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The PSDC has the following components:

3.3.2. Component 1 ­ Line of Credit. The lack of access to formal term finance in Mongolia
stymied the potential for the private sector to lead growth. To address this need for medium and
long-term investment financing, the PSDC credit line was structured to meet both the investment
needs for the sub-borrowers and the soundness of the PFIs. The line of credit (LOC) was the
main component, amounting to $10.0 million, or 83 percent of the credit. The LOC was made
available for on-lending through eligible participating financial institutions (PFIs) to private firms
established and operating in Mongolia to promote private sector activities.

3.3.3. For this purpose, the government entered Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the PFIs. The
maturity of a subsidiary loan corresponded to that of the PFI sub-loan it financed, plus a six
month elapsed period. The principal repayments of the subsidiary loans were credited to a
government revolving fund at the Bank of Mongolia (BOM, the central bank) which was
established to finance second round of subsidiary loans under the same terms and conditions of
the IDA credit. The subsidiary loans could be provided either in US dollars or Togrog depending
on the currency denomination of the sub-loan and their rates were determined using a
market-based formula. The formula for the lending rate for U.S. dollar denominated subsidiary
loans was six-month U.S. dollar deposits LIBOR + 3 percent. The lending rate of Togrog
denominated subsidiary loans was first based on LIBOR, but revised during project
implementation to be based on the 91-day Bank of Mongolia Bill Rate. The PFIs had the
autonomy to determine the lending rate of sub-loans.

3.3.4. The LOC financed principally plant and equipment purchased by private enterprises.
Other eligible items included permanent working capital and civil works (except real estate) (see
Table 1). The terms of the sub-loan are for medium and long-term and access was on a
first-come, first-served basis. Commercial banks under the credit assumed full responsibility for
the credit. The government was responsible for the exchange rate risk which was covered by the
interest income earned over the on-lending funds to PFIs. Since the exchange rate regime was
market based and the rate had been stable, the margin was considered as adequate to cover the
risk.




                                                 - 3 -

3.3.5. The eligibility criteria for the borrowers of sub-loans and their terms and conditions were
as follows:

Table 1. Eligibility Criteria, Terms and Conditions for Sub-Loan's Borrower.

Eligibility criteria              Terms and conditions of sub-loans            Ineligible sub-loans (negative list)
· Majority privately owned         · Single borrower exposure $500,000        · No refinancing or takeover
· Debt service coverage >1.3: 1    · Maximum loan size: $500,000             loans
· Loan/value ratio < 80%           · Final maturity >3 years and < 7 years    · No military loans
· Financial rate of return of >13% · Grace period for principal: <2 years     · No consumer loans
· No previous defaults             · No grace period for interest             · No environmentally-damaging
                                   · Principal payments at least quarterly       loans
                                   · Interest payments at least quarterly     · No real estate
                                   · All loans to be secured (collateralized  · No housing
                                  or
                                    personal guaranteed for sole
                                    proprietorship)


3.3.6. To administer these sub-loans, the PFIs were selected with the following criteria based on
a broad range of factors:

Table 2. Eligibility Criteria for Participating Financial Institution.

            Compliance                     Other Financial Issues                      Credit Culture
Prudential regulations               Size                                    Credit policies
- capital adequacy                   Portfolio quality                       Credit procedures
- liquidity                          Loan loss reserve adequacy              Organizational structure
- Single borrower exposure           Audited financial statements            Staffing
- Insider lending                    Profitability                           Management quality
- Loan loss reserve                  Asset/liability management              Corporate governance
- Foreign exchange exposure          Startup banks                           Shareholder influence
 Banking Law                         Corporate governance
 Others                              MIS
- credit ceilings
- taxes


3.3.7. The assessment of the PFIs also included IDA's reviews of the banks' recent financial
accounts ­ prepared and audited in accordance with accounting and auditing principles acceptable
to the Bank ­ to confirm their adequate profitability, capital and portfolio quality. Based on the
above criteria and assessment, two commercial banks were qualified as PFIs during the
preparation of the credit, namely the Trade and Development Bank (TDB) and the Golomt Bank
       (1)
(GB).      To realize its primary objective of promoting the private sector, the project provided that
other commercial banks that subsequently met eligibility requirements during the project
                                                                          (2)
implementation stage would be able to participate in the PSDC.               Later, during implementation,
a third commercial bank, Zoos Bank, was identified as eligible to participate in the line of credit.
The Counter Part Working Group (CWG) was responsible for determining the eligibility of
potentially new PFIs and the on-going eligibility of existing PFIs, based on the information and
recommendation from the Bank of Mongolia (BOM). The continuity of any PFI depended on (i)


                                                     - 4 -

the bank's own financial standing as indicated in the BOM quarterly report on PFI compliance
                                                                                           (3)
with the prudential regulations provided to the CWG and the Bank,                             and (ii) its performance
under the PSDC credit line.

Note:
    (1) TDB was a state-owned bank accounting for 38 percent of outstanding loans, as of December 1998. It was agreed
        that TDB was eligible to act as a PFI based on an agreed time-bound action plan to comply with the prudential
        regulation of single borrower exposure -- to reduce its current single borrower exposure from 47.5 percent to 33.6
        percent in 1999 and 20 percent by September 2000. The action plan was implemented. TDB was subsequently
        privatized in 2002 and is currently under the management of the ING group. Golomt Bank was a medium-sized and
        start-up private bank accounting for 7 percent of outstanding loans, as of December 1998. Golomt Bank had two
        loans marginally in excess of the prudential norm on exposure to insider/related parties lending. Golomt Bank
        management agreed to come into compliance with the norm on insider/related parties lending by end-1999. During
        the PSDC implementation period, Golomt Bank was in compliance with the BOM prudential requirements and grew
        to be the second largest bank in Mongolia.
    (2) Zoos Bank was added as the third PFI to be eligible under the PSDC criteria during the implementation of the
        project.
    (3) The indicators were based on the BOM prudential regulations and updated during project implementation. For the
        last two years of project implementation, the indicators included the following prudential requirements: (1)
        capital/risk-weighted assets; (2) liquid assets/liabilities; (3) single foreign exchange open position/capital; (4)
        difference between forex assets and liabilities/capital; (5) total amount of loan to single borrower and parties
        connected to borrower/capital and number of borrowers whose lending are in compliance with established limits for
        single borrower exposure; (6) total amount of loan and similar assets to single connected party/capital; (7) aggregate
        exposure to connected parties/capital; (8) loan-loss provision/NPL; plus the following two memorandum items: (9)
        return on assets; and (10) return on equity


3.3.8. Component 2 ­ Technical Assistance (TA) Component. The TA component was designed
strengthen the institutional capacity of Mongolia's banking sector and support the PFIs to better
extend and manage sub-loans. It consisted of three sub-components:

3.3.9. Counterpart Working Group CWG). To ensure successful implementation of the project,
the CWG was established to coordinate the required implementation work for the project. These
included a project coordinator, related project coordination costs, project audits, and overseas
training for CWG staff.

3.3.10. TA was also provided to the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) to enhance the BOM's supervision
function in general and its role in continuous monitoring and supervision of PFIs in particular.
Funding was made available for training in bank supervision skills and in the development of a
credit information system administered by the Credit Information Bureau (CIB) of the central
bank. This TA program also supported the Bank's Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.
3659), as upgrading of the CIB system was a tranche release condition. The terms for the TA to
BOM were 1 percent interest per year, 20-year maturity and five-year grace.

3.3.11. TA for the PFIs. Two initially selected PFIs, TDB and Golomt Bank received technical
assistance funding for institutional capacity building. The TDB received assistance for its
operations and management control system renewal and for a training program on banking
operations. Golomt Bank received assistance for consultant services on strategic and business
planning, and reorganization, as well as training for business management, finance and banking.
Zoos Bank, which was added later, received technical assistance which initially focused on the



                                                               - 5 -

area of term lending to develop a set of project/borrower appraisal procedures, and later funded
other training activities (mainly in-house) on broader topics such as treasury function and branch
management. The TA terms to the PFIs were 2 percent interest per year, 20-year maturity and
five-year grace.

3.3.12. An unallocated TA amount was maintained to meet some future needs by other banks
which might become eligible PFIs at the later stage and was eventually used for the line of credit
component and the CWG TA activities. This unallocated amount was eventually used mainly for
the Zoos Bank's TA activities.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. There was no revision in the components of the credit.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 The project quality at entry was rated as satisfactory. In the late 1990s, there was a
complete breakdown of the financial intermediation process in Mongolia: On the one hand, most
bankers were unable to appraise prospective projects and were afraid to lend; on the other hand,
most entrepreneurs were unable to prepare credible projects and were unable to borrow. The
objective of the PSDC was to bring borrowers and lenders together, i.e., to "jump start" the
financial intermediation process in the country. It was designed as a relatively straightforward
credit line, taking into account the market failure, the fragile financial and banking sectors, and the
weak administrative capacity of the BOM. Recognizing, however, the dangers of merely
increasing the availability of commercial bank loans to private enterprises, the credit line was
complemented and strengthened by the technical assistance component of the project, including
an intensive on-the-job training program for bankers in terms of lending using project-based
evaluation techniques. The line of credit would provide term loans to private enterprises and
more importantly strengthen the institutional capacity of lenders and borrowers. The linkage and
leverage of the line of credit were effected with other donor assistance programs, notably the
USAID's program on matching grants, the ADB's Financial Sector Program Loan and TA loan to
the Banking Supervision Department of the BOM, and other bilateral donor programs to the
banking sector in Mongolia. The PSDC also benefited from the World Bank's previous two
projects, Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) and Banking, Enterprise
and Legal Assistance Credit (BELTAC) which contributed to developing a enabling environment
in the banking and legal sectors.

3.5.2 Results of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) findings

3.5.3 The project was reviewed twice by the QAG, the first review was undertaken in
                                                          (4)
September 2000 and the second one in October 2004.           Both reviews rated the PSDC as
satisfactory overall. The first review noted that the supervision team was "proactive and found
appropriate ways" to work in a country in crisis, both politically and financially. It did "a very
good and effective job in monitoring the performance of the PFIs" given their financial difficulties
and the long lead time needed to reduce the non-performing assets. The review also



                                                 - 6 -

recommended close monitoring of the activities and close supervision to ensure the continuous
support for the project due to changes in the government. The second review rated the project as
satisfactory overall, supporting the rating done in September 2000. It also commended that the
project team was "of excellent quality and supervised diligently throughout the period." It noted
that the request for follow-up project was made by the government, indicating a "measure of
effectiveness of the task team's working relations with the country and the beneficial impact" of
the current project.

Note:
    (4) Quality Assurance Group, Mongolia: Private Sector Development Credit (P049789) ­ Final QSA6 Assessment,
        October 5, 2004 and FY00 QSA ­ Mongolia Private Sector Development Credit (P049789) ­ FY00 Quality of
        Supervision Assessment, September 21, 2000.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 The PSDC has met its original funding objectives with nearly full disbursement of the
credit line and most of the funding earmarked for the technical component at the closure of the
project. Overall, the government and all the stakeholders registered their satisfaction with the
contribution of PSDC to the private sector development objectives. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the BOM, the PFIs, and the private sector borrowers all noted the "on-the-ground"
results achieved by PDSC in the areas of job creation, increased revenues, development of new
products and services, improved term-lending capacity and development of term-lending
products. As a sign of the positive results from the PSDC, several Mongolian private
entrepreneurs, who took sub-loans from the credit, have been actively positioning themselves to
take advantages of the globalization with European markets and with the fast economic growth of
neighboring China. The outcome of the operation is rated by the ICR as satisfactory.

4.1.2 Through the line of credit, the PSDC introduced and developed effectively term-lending
products as part of new banking services while building up term-lending capacity among the PFIs
amidst severe shortages of longer term (>12 months) funding sources and low public confidence
in the banking sector. The line of credit has also provided effective support for the growth of
small and medium enterprises with provision of term-lending opportunities in particular and
enhancing the development of the private sector in general in Mongolia. The technical assistance
component has contributed to visible progress and achievement in capacity building for the BOM
and the PFIs, and the upgraded credit information system which was welcome by Mongolian
commercial banks. According to a survey of 40 sub-borrowers conducted by the Bank's task
team in October-November 2004, the majority of the sub-borrower respondents (56 percent)
agree that the project has advanced the cause of the private sector and contributed to its
development through facilitating its growth, employment, and trade opportunities. These
activities have also helped to improve the confidence of the SMEs in the financial institutions in
Mongolia while improving the competition in the credit market and reducing the cost of credits.
At the same time, the PFIs also reported in a separate survey that the PSDC project substantially
contributed to the improvement of public confidence in Mongolia's banking sector, and of private
businessmen's ability to present sound business plans and credit applications.



                                                        - 7 -

4.1.3 The achievements by the PSDC are expected to continue in the future with the current
preparation of PSDC II at repeated requests of the government. The PFIs have also reconfirmed
their willingness to participate in the repeater project. The Bank's management has decided to
include the repeat operation in the FY2005/06 lending program. Preparation has been initiated by
the Bank for the repeater project as the PSDC closed.

4.1.4 Project Implementation. Overall, with the full support of the government, the
implementation of the PSDC was considered satisfactory, especially under the line of credit
component, given the difficult macroeconomic environment in Mongolia, weaknesses in the
institutional and financial sectors and the breakdown in the financial intermediation process.
These resulted in implementation lags at the beginning of the implementation, especially for the
technical assistance component. The delay in this component was specifically due to the TA
sub-component to the TDB which did not begin until 2003 due to its management changes and its
privatization process. Two extensions of the closing date were granted for all the project
activities to be completed, the first one for one year from February 28, 2003 (the original closing
date) to February 28, 2004 and the second one for six months to the final closing on August 31,
2004.

4.1.5 Upon its effectiveness in December 1999, the implementation began slowly, especially for
the line of credit component in the first 18 months as the Mongolian economy was yet to recover
from the financial crisis and external shocks and lack of experience and confidence in evaluating
capital investment loans on the part of the two PFIs. PFIs' staff had little exposure to
term-lending and lack of basic knowledge in loan evaluation and assessment. Consequently, the
line of credit proceeds were disbursed slowly at the beginning of the project. In addition, the
uncertainties surrounding the delay in the privatization of the TDB affected the implementation of
the technical assistance component for this bank.

4.1.6 Toward the end of 2001, the implementation pace started to improve and actually
accelerated from mid-2002 in both components with increased sub-loan activities and on-going
technical assistance activities. As PFIs staff became more confident in their loan assessment
abilities, and with accelerated economic recovery, the line of credit's disbursement increased.
With on-going activities, the first extension was granted by IDA and took into account the
difficulties in achieving the disbursement profile under the line of credit while maintaining loan
quality, given seasonal feature of the economic activities in Mongolia (the long and severe winter
when most of the outdoor activities would be halted). At the end of January 2004, 80 percent of
the total credit was disbursed for the two components. However, the government was concerned
that the expenses under some approved sub-loans could not be concluded within the allocated
time, by February 2004. Consequently, the government requested and the Bank agreed to a
second extension of the project to August 31, 2004 to complete on-going activities within the two
components of the project.

4.1.7 The Bank's diligent supervision activities contributed to and ­ in many ways ­ ensure the
successful outcome of the project, as noted by the QAG review. This was accomplished despite
some administrative and organizational changes in the East Asia Region of the Bank during the
                (5)
project's life.    There was also some institutional memory in the Bank's task team throughout



                                                  - 8 -

the implementation of the project. The monitoring and reporting activities were regularly carried
out by the CWG staff, allowing for timely addressing of issues and problems in implementation.
These were in turn closely monitored by the Bank's supervision team. Supervision missions also
visited all the sub-loan borrowers to learn first hand their experiences in loan submission and loan
processing.

Note:
    (5) The project was first prepared and managed by the Financial and Private Sector Department within East Asia, and
    then moved to the region's Private Sector Development Department, jointly managed with IFC. In 2002, it was moved
    back to the Bank's East Asia Region under the Financial and Private Sector Unit.


4.1.8 PFIs. While the selection criteria of the PFIs were transparent and straightforward (see
Table 2), the lack of fully qualified commercial banks to participate in the sub-lending necessitated
some adjustments and prerequisites for the two selected PFIs (see footnote No. 1). At the
beginning of the project, provisions were made for more commercial banks to become PFIs.
During the implementation period the government proposed to add a few financial institutions.
However, only one of them met the eligibility criteria to act as PFI ­ Zoos Bank. The Bank task
team considered the three PFIs provided a critical mass for the project to achieve its development
objective, as they accounted for more than 66 percent of the total banking assets.

4.1.9 The process of certifying the continuing eligibility of the PFIs was also pursued diligently
by the Bank's task team by reviewing the quarterly BOM reports and the IAS-based audited
annual financial statements, and on-site visits during supervision missions in cooperation with the
BOM, the CWG and the PIU which facilitated the monitoring of the project activities. Bank staff
also provided on-the-job training to PFI credit officers by helping them improve the sub-loan
applications through prior review and approval of the applications. The supervision missions paid
close attention to the training activities for the PFIs, the CWG, and the BOM, ensuring usefulness
and effectiveness of the training programs.

4.1.10 Project disbursement and funds flow arrangements. There were two special accounts
which have been maintained in accordance with the DCA and managed by the project
coordinator. Disbursement arrangements were working smoothly and provided sound support to
the project implementation, as noted by the disbursement and financial management mission in
February 2003. The CWG prepared a detailed and useful monthly Project Management Report
(PMR) which included a report on the cash flow of the project by quarter, uses of funds, a
statement on the special account; and the output monitoring report for the two sub-components
of the project.

4.1.11 Mongolia's legal framework for environmental protection was found reasonable, and
Safeguards requirements were followed with the evaluation of sub-projects within the
environment assessment requirements that were similar to the World Bank's. Specific
environmental assessments for sub-loans were done by independent institutions and approved by
the national environmental agency. As most of the sub-projects were of small scale with an
average total cost below $260,000, any environmental impact, if at all, would also be minimal,
given their size. However, there were concerns with the technical capacity of the national agency
and the environment assessment institutions. The QAG panel suggested some post-review during



                                                          - 9 -

the preparation of the repeated project would be appropriate.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 The outputs by components are described in details below.

Component 1. Line of Credit

4.2.2 At the project's closure, there were 53 sub-projects which were submitted by PFIs for
                                                                                                       (6)
financing (42 were originally planned by the scheduled completion on August 31, 2004).                     IDA
approved 47 sub-projects (only 33 were planned by project' completion on August 31, 2004). All
the beneficiaries ­ sub-loan borrowers - were SMEs owned by private entrepreneurs. The
sub-loans (average size of US$200,000) were well diversified in different sectors, ranging from
food production and horticulture to wood processing, from construction materials to telecom,
from education to tourism. These have contributed to improvement in business for the SMEs and
further their competition and contribution to employment and the GDP (see discussion below on
the results of the sub-loan survey).

Note:
    (6) Project Management Report, December 31, 2004.


4.2.3 By the end of August 2004, the committed loan amount reached more than $10 million
while the amount disbursed was over $9,8 million. The repayments by the PFIs of the principals
of subsidiary loans as of December 31, 2004 amounted to more than $1.7 million, as scheduled,
which were transferred to the revolving funds. Table 3 summarizes the PFIs and their sub-loans
supported by the PSDC. Based on the feedback of the PFI survey and the PFI reports on
sub-loan profiles, the quality of the sub-loan portfolios were either better or much better than the
PFIs overall loan portfolios. The number of loan past dues did not exceed three and the share was
quite low given the diversity of the sub-loan portfolios. NPLs to total sub-loans were less than
6%, compared with a system average of over 12 percent at the end of 2004. However, Bank task
team emphasized the need for close monitoring of the sub-loan portfolios in order to identify
issues that merited attention, because of the weakness in financial reporting and accounting
practices although Mongolia officially adopted IAS in the 1990s. BOM's quarterly reports on the
continuing eligibility of the PFIs provided relevant benchmarks against which the PFIs were
monitored by Bank staff continuously during the implementation of the project to ensure their
continuing eligibility to participate in the PSDC. Throughout the project implementation period,
the three PFIs either fully or largely complied with the BOM prudential requirements and
                                (7)
remained eligible as PFIs.

Note:
    (7) A November 2003 Fund staff assessment of compliance with the Basel Core Principles found banking supervision
    and regulatory framework in Mongolia reasonable.


4.2.4 While the PSDC at first set a free-limit ($350,000) as a threshold for prior Bank clearance
of sub-loan applications, the free-limit was, however, not used during project implementation.
First, it was set too high as most of private enterprises which went to the PFIs for PSDC funding


                                                     - 10 -

were SMEs and the average sub-loan size turned out to be only about $200,000. Further, for a
while after the inception of project implementation, the PFIs appeared to rely on Bank staff to
review all sub-loan applications, given their lack of experience and skills in borrower analysis and
project assessment. Later, the PFI gained experience, but the free limit was not reinstated at the
request of the CWG which was concerned about PFI term-lending capacity. Most of the Bank's
project supervision reports (PSRs) were concerned with the uncertainties in sub-loan quality,
sub-borrower financial health, and sub-project implementation and recommended continuous
supervision and monitoring. Prior review by Bank's task team of all sub-loan applications from
the PFIs could present "a bit of moral hazard", as noted by the QAG in its October 2004 review
of the project. Per the QAG recommendation, staff is working with the government to introduce
a proper prior review threshold under the second PSDC project, that will avoid subjecting all
sub-loan applications to Bank's prior review while allowing the task team to approve a significant
part of the applications before sub-loans are extended, given the need for continuous capacity
building at the PFIs and the weak credit culture in Mongolia.

4.2.5 The survey of 40 sub-borrowers conducted by the Bank at the closure of the project
shows a general satisfaction on the improved performance of their business that the PSDC has
contributed. On a scale of 1 to 4, 45.3 percent of sub-borrower respondents indicated that the
sub-loans were rated at 2, indicating that they were very relevant to the performance of their line
of business, while 26 percent rated at 1, with substantial results. Only 10.3 percent rated at 4 or
                                                                                               (8)
marginal the contribution of the sub-loans, and 18.3 percent rated as limited.

Note:
    (8) The survey questions regarding sub-borrower performance include among others increase in sales and operating
    margin, improved collection ratio and improvements in procurement and accounting practices.


4.2.6 The survey of the PFIs received similar feedback regarding the PSDC contribution to the
banks' financial position and performance. The project's contribution was rated as substantial in
the following areas: strengthened lending policies and procedures, improved access to foreign
commercial funding, development of intermediate lending products and expansion of clientele
base, and better corporate strategy.




                                                          - 11 -

Table 3. PFIs, Number of Sub-Loans, Sector and Average Loan Amount

PFI             Number of                          Sector                     Average Loan Average Loan
                Sub-Loans                                                     Amount in US  Amount in
                                                                               Dollars($)    Togrog
Zoos Bank            7       Financial services, packaging, paper                270,000    152 million
                             processing, foodstuff


TDB                 12       Construction materials, horticulture, foodstuff,   275,000    560 million
                             mining, retail center, telecom.


Golomt Bank         28       Construction materials, car repairs, foodstuff,    380,000    270 million
                             retail center, hotel, wood processing, cashmere,
                             tourism


    Total           47                                                          200,000


Project Component 2: Technical Assistance (TA) Component.

4.2.7 The TA component was completed at the project's closure, with all the sub-components,
except one, processing at a reasonable pace during the life of the project toward their intended
objectives. The sub-component with delays in disbursements during the early part of the PSDC
was to fund the TA for one of the PFIs, the TDB; the funding for this sub-component could not
be disbursed for a while, due to the long privatization process of this bank until after it was
actually privatized in late 2003 (see further discussion below).

4.2.8 Counterpart Working Group (CWG). In April 1999, the CWG was established to provide
required management to the implementation work of the project and headed by a director from
MOF. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Office, staffed with a project coordinator and
attached to the MOF, oversaw the project's activities, including coordination between MOF,
BOM, PFIs and SMEs, project monitoring and audits, and overseas training. Study tours were
organized for CWG staff in Hungary/Slovakia, USA and Russia with focus on bank privatization
and legal/regulatory reforms to promote private sector development. Other training activities
included seminars and workshops on risk management, payment settlement systems, and
negotiations and decision making strategies.

4.2.9 TA was provided to the BOM supervision staff to enhance the central bank' supervision
capacity, particularly with the continuous monitoring and supervision of PFIs, through (a) staff
training programs and (b) the credit information system upgrades. The implementation of the
training program proceeded at a slower pace than expected at the beginning of the project and in
2001, there was a discussion on the need to reallocate these funds toward on-lending. But since
2002, the pace of the implementation accelerated and at the project closure, staff training in
central banking skills funded by the project covered an equivalent of about 60 staff-months.

4.2.10 The development and upgrade of the credit information system software administered by
the Credit Information Bureau (CIB) was completed and made operational following the user
acceptance testing by BOM. The CIB has come a long way since its establishment in the late


                                                     - 12 -

1990s when it was a one-person shop with little information to share. The upgraded system now
operates as an on-line system which collects data from almost all Mongolian banks and non-bank
financial institutions for all borrowers, both corporate and individual. Data are directly inputted
into the upgraded system by the banks themselves. Information on credit defaulters can be shared
among Mongolian banks, and between the banks and BOM. Based on user feedback from
commercial banks in Mongolia, the upgraded system is considered a main achievement of this
sub-component, as it provides a useful tool for the evaluation of potential borrowers. As with a
new system, fine-tuning of the CIB system will be needed in the next stage, especially with the
quality of inputs and the data coverage, to enhance the effectiveness of the system.

4.2.11 TA for the PFIs. At the start of the implementation of the PSDC, two PFIs, TDB and
Golomt Bank, were selected and received technical assistance funding to support their role in
carrying out the sub-lending to eligible enterprises. Later on, during the implementation of the
project, a commercial bank, Zoos Bank, was added as the third qualified PFI.

4.2.12 The TDB received assistance for its IT system renewal and for a training program on
banking operations. The IT system renewal consisted of (a) the complete installation of a loan
module, including service and maintenance work, (b) an Eximbills module, a trade finance
software, which was installed and made operational; (c) back-up servers replaced and upgraded
with new and more powerful hardware; and (d) fixed assets software compatible with and able to
interface with the existing ones used by the bank. The implementation of this TA component
experienced some serious delays during the first two years of the project. These were due mostly
to the frequent changes in the top management and the pending privatization of the bank, hence
the resulting cautious approach to the TA implementation program. In October 2001, the
government authorized the Minister of Finance to re-allocate TA funding for TDB to other
purposes. However, by 2003, TDB had submitted a TA training program to use the PSDC's
funding after a new management team assumed office. The training program focused on
enhancing the bank's treasury management system and MIS with an action plan approved by IDA
to carry out the program. Since then, this sub-component was implemented satisfactorily and was
completed at the closure of the project. Training was equivalent to about 45 staff-months while
the planned figure was a bit higher at 52 staff-months due to the delay in start up of the TDB
technical assistance program.

4.2.13 Golomt Bank received assistance for consultant services on strategic and business
planning for an institutional development module, and other banking-related activities, and for
training for business management, finance and banking. The implementation of the institutional
development program was completed and the program covered areas on management information
system, credit risk management, internal control and customer oriented business models. The
program also addressed the various issues related to strategic planning, lending procedures and
human resources policy. Based on the international consultant recommendations, Golomt Bank
reorganized its front and back office functions a line with the common organizational structure
than can be found in commercial banks of market economies. The training for an equivalent of 91
staff-months was completed (versus the planned 54 staff-months). Golomt Bank also instituted
on-the-job training for its staff, preferring this form of training which was deemed more effective
and efficient than sending staff for overseas MBA programs. Golomt Bank was awarded the



                                                   - 13 -

Bank of the Year in 2004 by the renowned monthly The Banker, and the bank's management
attributed its achievement to the assistance it received from the technical assistance
sub-component of the PSDC.

4.2.14 Zoos Bank, the third PFI which was added during the implementation, received technical
training equivalent to 52 staff-months (35 staff-months were planned). The training program was
focused on credit assessment and on evaluating sub-projects and managing risk for its staff,
especially for its managers and loan officers. The Bank established a separate unit for loan
review, approval and administration, internal audits and reorganization of its product lines with
PSDC's support. Seminars and workshops were organized on overall basic lending skills,
including policy and procedures in long-term investment loans, financial analysis, evaluation of
collateral, monitoring and reporting, treasury functions, and overall business planning such as new
products and branches. Some overseas training programs were also organized for its staff to visit
other countries for first hand experience in banking and lending services.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1. Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. The PSDC made the most important contribution to the term-lending and medium to long
term lending activities in the financial sector in Mongolia. It provided the "jump start" which was
needed for the financial intermediation in two ways (a) the line of credit and (b) the strengthening
of the financial institutions and commercial banks through the TA components, despite the small
number of PFIs. This was especially noted at the Golomt Bank which achieved steady progress
during the project life in developing its experience on medium-term on-lending despite the
complete absence of skills in this area at the beginning of the project. Its management attributed
its achievements to the support from the project when it was awarded "Bank of the Year 2004."
With the improved experience and skills in the loan review and evaluation process, risk
assessment, financial and credit management, the three PFIs would be in a better shape to benefit
further from the follow-up project.

4.5.2. The BOM supervision skills have also improved through intensive training programs. The
upgraded system at CIB has contributed increasingly towards an improved credit culture of
commercial banks which responded positively to the usefulness of the system for the
evaluation/identification of potential borrowers.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The overall economic environment following the banking crisis affected the project at the



                                                     - 14 -

beginning of its implementation. The lack of technical skills and experience in banking services
was also an issue to be addressed.

5.1.2. The quality of the loan applications from the sub-borrowers depended on the enterprises
and their management and was not within the control of the government or the implementing
agencies.

5.1.3. The technical quality level of the BOM for supervision and monitoring was not
immediately under the control of the government in the short term.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Technical training programs to meet the need of the various institutions were prepared
with the support of the government. The line of credit benefited from the absence of government
interference. The project implementation also benefited from the smooth working relationship
between the government and the Bank. The strong interest and commitment of the MOF and
BOM facilitated the implementation of the project and allowed the CWG to be an effective
instrument in overseeing the project to its successful end.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. BOM ensured that PFIs continuously met the conditions of eligibility under PSDC. There
was no interference from the government in the loan application and evaluation processes. The
monitoring and reporting activities which were under the implementing agency control were
carried out regularly and served as a useful instrument for the supervision of the project. The
MOF and the CWG were effective in coordinating the day-to-day activities and interacting with
the PFIs through the review activities for sub-loans submissions and clearance.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The amount of the credit was approved by the Board at SDR8.9 million (US$12.0 million
equivalent). At the ICR writing, the project disbursed $11.2 million. Disbursement of the line of
credit was $9.80 million and $1.4 million for the TA component. The amount cancelled at the end
of the project was $797,115.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The overall project sustainability is rated "likely" by the ICR. The project met its funding
objectives with $9.8 million disbursement for the credit line and $1.4 million for the TA
component. The survey of sub-borrowers and PFIs confirmed the beneficial results brought about
by the PSDC to the private sector and the banking industry in Mongolia. As discussed above, a
majority of the sub-borrower respondents (56 percent) agree that PSDC contributed to the private
sector development in Mongolia by facilitating its growth, employment, and trade opportunities.
The confidence of the SMEs in the financial institutions in Mongolia has increased, along with the
improvement in competition in the credit market and reduction of the cost of credits, as shown in



                                                    - 15 -

the country's financial deepening, credit growth, and loan interest rates. As a measure of the
sustainability of the PSDC and its beneficial impact, the government has requested the Bank to
prepare a follow-up project, PSDC 2, which is expected to be presented to the Board in
FY2005/06 lending program.

6.1.2. Technical knowledge for loan evaluation process along with the upgrade of the CIB at the
BOM has contributed to the increased confidence in the banking sector. The PFIs have enhanced
their operating capacity and effectiveness in credit and risk evaluation, MIS, and overall staff
training in bank services, and business operations. This knowledge acquired by the PFIs in the
PSDC and the CIB would contribute to a lasting foundation on which the repeater project could
strengthen further and thereby enhancing the sustainability of the project and its objectives.

6.1.3 The three PFIs -- in the survey done at the end of the project -- rated the contribution of
the PSDC as substantial in helping them strengthen lending policies and procedures, develop
intermediate lending products, and improve their formulation and implementation of corporate
strategy, and expand the clientele base. All of these improvements, albeit intangible, would
contribute further to the process of capacity and institution building at these commercial banks,
serve to enhance the sustainability of the project and position the PFIs for further financial
intermediation and financial deepening.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. The demand for medium-term capital investment loans remained high. The government
has made repeated requests to the Bank for a repeater project. Bank management has in turn
decided to include a repeat operation in the FY2005/06 lending program. Preparation has been
initiated for this operation in September 2004.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The Bank responded timely to the need of the Mongolian economy in general and
appropriately to the financial sector with the preparation of this operation. The preparation for
the lending activity was rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The Bank has diligently carried its supervision activities throughout the life of the project
and contributed to the successful completion of the project. Bank staff maintained a close
working relationship with the government and their counterparts, contributing to an effective
implementation of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The overall Bank performance was rated satisfactory with timely response to the need of
the client country and with quality supervision of the project.



                                                  - 16 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government played an active role in the preparation of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The government implementation performance was satisfactory with hand-on supervision
and monitoring and good coordination with Bank staff to address emerging issues effectively to
carry out the project to its successful completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The Sector Policy and Investment Department of the MOF, where the project was directly
attached, fulfilled well its responsibilities in monitoring and reporting, allowing for better
management and implementation of the project, facilitating the Bank's supervision activities. The
Treasury Department of the MOF served as the financial supervisory unit of the project by
reviewing the disbursements of the credit and supervising the repayments of sub-loans made by
sub-borrowers through PFIs and interest payments over the credit's proceeds. The three PFIs,
which carried the sub-loan activities and the TA programs, have considerably improved their
capacity and capability in loan processing and evaluation. The Supervision Department of the
BOM successfully carried out the BOM TA program and improved its capacity and capability in
banking supervision.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The government has brought
the project to a successful closure in a challenging transition environment, especially in the
banking sector and with weak banking skills in the banking institutions. The implementing
agencies performed well their monitoring and reporting, thus allowing for effective supervision of
the project and contributing to advance the private sector development objective of the project
overall.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.    The major lessons are:

        ·    A stable banking environment and improved regulatory framework would be some
             prerequisites for the success of the line of credit.
        ·    The straightforward design of the lending operation was an important factor in the
             successful completion of the activity. There were no non-commercial criteria in the
             implementation of the line of credit: there was no sector limitation, and no target
             groups (except for the requirement that sub-borrowers must be private enterprises.
        ·    It is important to have strong ownership of the project by the government and the
             central bank for the project's monitoring and coordinating activities.
        ·    The focus on sub-loan portfolio quality and the overall financial position and



                                                - 17 -

             performance of the PFIs is crucial to the achievement of the project's developmental
             objectives.
        ·    A suitable time frame needs to be reflected in the preparation for the
             institutional-building and technical assistance components, especially in countries with
             weak civil service such as Mongolia. The time actually taken to introduce
             fundamental changes in the banking sector and institutional building will be needed in
             planning similar projects with technical components.
        ·    Appropriate amount of supervision and monitoring was the underlying achievement
             of the project. The relevant importance of these activities could not be understated in
             a project of this nature.
        ·    Criteria for the evaluation of a training program would need to be designed to
             facilitate the assessment of its results and contribution to the capacity building
             activities of the project.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                                            MONGOLIA
                 PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT PROJECT
                                          (CR.3226-MOG)

                                 PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE
                                  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE

BACKGROUND INFORMATION

        Economic growth is central to the Government's strategy of increasing employment and
reducing poverty. In this regard, Mongolia's incipient private sector takes the lead in the
country's growth effort. However, private entrepreneurs, in particular the newly privatized
enterprises, needed new investments as well as funds for restructuring and upgrading the outdated
technology and surviving from market failures. Mongolian financial system had just completed a
major restructuring process made in 1996: at that time, insolvent and nonviable banks were
liquidated, most non-performing inherited and directed loans of commercial banks were replaced
by government bonds and banks were required to adopt vigorous loan recovery measures. Credit
structures of Mongolian banks were typically less than one year (usually 90-180 days) and access
to long-term credit was virtually non-existent. Moreover, the need for term finance was
particularly important for the country in light of the very low level of foreign direct investment in
the country. Constraints on the availability of term financing have been identified as one of the key
roadblocks to the continued growth of the private sector.

        Lack of term finance, scarce credit availability and extremely high real interest rates
constitute major problems for private sector development. To this end, a project, entirely



                                                  - 18 -

consistent with the Government`s overall private sector­led growth strategy, was designed after
several missions on fact finding and appraisals of the financial sector situation in the country and
extensive discussions held between the Government of Mongolia (GOM) and International
Development Association (IDA) since 1997. As a result, Government of Mongolia and IDA have
agreed to implement the Private Sector Development Credit Project to increase the availability of
term lending to private enterprises and strengthen the capacity of participating financial
institutions to provide term finance and to act as efficient financial intermediaries.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES

         The Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC) was the first line of credit provided by
IDA to support private sector development in Mongolia; it became effective in December 14,
1999 and closed in August 31, 2004. The total project cost was estimated at US$14.315 million.

         IDA extended credit of US$ 12.0 million to GOM with terms of 40 year maturity, 10 year
grace period for principal repayment and 0.75 percent service fee. GOM/PFI/Private enterprises
agreed to contribute US$2.315 million toward the project.

         The project consisted of two components, i.e. the component of the line of credit of
US$10.0 million to enable the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to increase the financial
resources available for term lending to private sector enterprises, and a technical assistance credit
of US$2.0 million to promote capacity building and institutional development within the banking
sector.

         Main objectives of PSDC were as follows:

      · Promote the development of private sector through the provision of term lending to the
           eligible private enterprises;

      · Increase the institutional capacity of participating banks by strengthening their financial
           intermediation function and resource allocation capabilities; and

      · Increase the institutional capacity of Bank of Mongolia (the Central Bank) by improving
           its bank supervision function.

         Implementing agencies included the-Ministry of Finance (MOF), Bank of Mongolia
(BOM), and the eligible PFIs such as Golomt Bank, Trade and Development Bank, and Zoos
Bank, started to participate in the project from July 2002.

         It is right to note the IDA Task Team's contribution toward the achievement of
developmental objectives of the PSDC and the successful completion of the project with its
regular professional assistance and comments, and supervision activities throughout the life of the
project.




                                                - 19 -

PROJECT COMPONENTS

Credit line

a) Outcome achieved

        There was a very strong demand for the credit line to promote small and medium
enterprises, reflected in the receipt of about 500 sub-loan applications during the project
implementation period. The PFIs have selected, based on the eligibility criteria of on-lending, only
10 percent of these sub-project proposals for review and accordingly received IDA approvals to
finance with the allocated credit proceeds. The credit has supported capital investment needs of
47 eligible sub-borrowers in sectors such as construction materials (8), food processing (9),
cashmere (2), tourism (2), printing (3), schooling (3), packaging (2), gold mining (1), various
services (9) and others (8). More than 900 new jobs were expected to be created within these
sub-projects.

        In the earlier years of the project implementation, sub-loans approvals by PFIs were slow.
This is explained by: a) poor quality of many loan applications, including financial statements
which were time consuming for PFIs to review and verify the information; b) the applicant's
inability to co-finance 20% of the sub-project, and c) lack of collateral. In order to address the
issue, some PFIs started to train the potential borrowers to improve project preparation and loan
application.

        PSDC sub-lending accelerated during the second half of 2001. The disbursed amount of
sub-loans as of 31 December 2001 totaled US$3.2 million which was almost 1.6 times more than
that as of June 30 2001. Over the project implementation period, sub-loans of US$9.8 million had
been on-lent to eligible private enterprises through three participating commercial banks.

        The beneficiaries of this credit line are eligible small- and medium sized enterprises in a
broad of industries, ranging from traditional industries of meat and cashmere processing, flour
milling, gold mining to new industry ventures, such as disposable paper cups factory, car repair
shop, flower greenhouse, private school, and tourist camps.

        No upfront allocations of credit proceeds made among participating commercial banks.
The line of credit disbursed according to a first-come, first-served basis, based on the loan
applications of the PFIs. The average size of the sub-loans was US$208,508 that was much
smaller than the original threshold of US$350,000 for Bank's prior review. As of 31 December
2004, sub-loan principal repayments of US$1.7 million been made, as scheduled, to the Revolving
Fund account maintained by the Government at the BOM.

        The line of credit had two windows: local currency and foreign currency. The pricing
formula for on-lending of foreign currency denominated loans was based on the six-month LIBOR
plus a margin of three percent, and local currency (togrog) denominated loans on the average 91
day Central Bank Bill (CBB) rate. The PFIs had added margin of 5-7 percent to the sub-loans
interest rate for sub-borrowers. The annual average interest rate for togrog denominated



                                                  - 20 -

sub-loans was 19-21 percent, and for foreign currency sub-loans 11.7-13.7 percent during the
project implementation period.

        A survey for the evaluation of the PSDC contribution to sub-borrowers showed
improvement in operational efficiency, increased sales and operating margins, upgraded
technology, diversified activities, entry to new foreign markets and improved capital investment
planning. PSDC, in addition, created new jobs and satisfied investment funding needs.

        The PFIs rated the project's contribution as substantial in the areas of improved term
lending capacity, strengthened lending policies and procedures and better corporate strategy.

b) Lessons learned

·     The sub-borrowers and the PFIs were inexperienced in term lending. This was one of main
      reasons for slow sub-project evaluation and approval at PFIs in the early period of the
      project implementation. PFIs highly appreciated the financial software, reporting format
      provided and hands-on trainings provided by the IDA. They found these most helpful in
      evaluating sub-loan applications in financial terms.

·     The PFIs have submitted all sub-loan applications, not depending on the size, to the task
      team for review and clearance for the life of project. Though, IDA review and comments
      on sub-loan applications had helped to train PFI credit officers lacking experience to the
      type of financing, the process took much time to get approval for sub-loans and delayed
      implementation of sub-projects highly dependent on seasonal feature. Therefore, the
      process needs some modification to satisfy balance of both in the future.

·     With the upgraded Credit Information System at BOM under PSDC project, more
      comprehensive and complete information on borrowers in default became available for the
      commercial banks, and between banks and the central bank. The system helps Mongolian
      banks to evaluate potential borrowers and manage the sub-loan portfolio quality.

·     Though it was indicated in the legal documents of the Project that the procurement of
      goods, works and services under the line of credit would be done by normal commercial
      practices, a full scale IDA procurement was required for all sub-projects. The
      sub-borrowers and PFIs found it too comprehensive and time consuming procedure to
      follow in selecting suppliers. Hence, reintroducing the normal commercial practices of
      procurement with the established threshold limit is much desirable.

·     We expected that with the on-going reform program to improve the financial sector in
      Mongolia, the interest rates would continue to decline to more affordable levels. However,
      the interest rates offered by commercial banks are still unsustainably high for private
      enterprises to boost investment and growth. Both sub-borrowers and PFIs have been
      requesting further a decrease in sub-loan interest rates citing lack of long-term financing to
      support private sector investment and highly favorable terms and conditions of credit
      provided to the Government by IDA. Hence, a more appropriate pricing structure for



                                                 - 21 -

       Togrog denominated sub-loans needs to be adapted.

Technical Assistance

a) Outcome achieved

        The PSDC project had a large component of technical assistance for the institutional
capacity building of the PFIs, the supervision department of BOM and project implementation
activities.

        In total, US$2.0 million of technical assistance credit earmarked to three PFIs (US$1.3
million), Bank of Mongolia (US$375,000), Counterpart Working Group (US$200,000) and
unallocated item (US$125,000).

        Over the project implementation period, about 67 percent or US$1.35 million equivalent
of the Credit proceeds under this component were disbursed for GOM/BOM/PFIs staff
participation in local and overseas trainings, rendering the consultancy services and upgrading
software and hardware. GOM\PFIs in kind contribution to the project was US$253,000.

        Effective and timely utilization of the technical assistance budget was important to support
the CWG, enhance financial supervision, and develop capacity at the PFIs. However, the
implementation of this component was slow, and no TA activity was initiated under the TDB
program before its privatization and the new management team in place. In addition, sending
every training activity to IDA for clearance was time consuming. Introduction of 3-6 month
training programs developed by the project implementation agencies and cleared by the IDA task
team was found to be more appropriate.

        PSDC technical assistance credit utilization accelerated from the fourth quarter of 2003.
The disbursed amount of TA as of 31 December, 2003 totaled US$792,000 which was 1.7 times
more than in the period ending 31 December, 2002.

        The training activities carried out for all the project participating agencies had
considerably improved their banking skills in risk assessment, term loan processing and evaluation
capabilities.

        Involvement of CWG members and staff of MOF, responsible for the monitoring and
reporting for the project, in the study tours and overseas seminars and workshops in
legal/regulatory reforms to promote private sector development, risk management and
negotiations and decision making strategies contributed to better management and monitoring of
the project implementation.

        The upgraded Credit information System at BOM is considered as a useful tool for
evaluating potential borrowers of commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions.

        The successful implementation of the Institutional Development Program developed by the



                                                  - 22 -

Fischer Woodbridge Consulting Group, has contributed to Golomt Bank's growth from small
start-up private bank to the second largest reputable bank in Mongolia.

         Though, there were some serious delays in implementing TA program under this project,
TDB had completed prior to credit closing date its IT system upgrading, including installation of a
loan and an Eximbills module, fixed assets software and upgrading back-up servers which help in
improving management controls and banking operations efficiencies.

        The Best Banker award handed over to Mr. Openshaw, Executive Chief Operations
Officer of TDB for his accomplishments in 2004. The BOM has commented "the bank was not
only financially viable, but also accomplished a lot in implementing new technologies in its
systems. For instance, the TDB has improved its IT systems, and far ahead of other banks in
terms of MIS. The bank has Disaster Recovery Site and Backup servers from which it can retrieve
information within five minutes in case of any disasters".

Bank of Mongolia

        As one of implementing agencies of the project, the main responsibilities of BOM were to
supervise the full compliance by the PFIs of the BOM prudential regulations, as core eligibility
criterion, throughout the lifetime of the project and improve the quality and effectiveness of its
supervision. A technical assistance credit was allocated under PSDC for this purpose. The BOM
Supervision Department has regularly provided IDA and CWG with BOM's quarterly reports on
the PFIs.

        During the project implementation period, BOM has disbursed 96 percent or US$0.360
million of its TA allocation for i) financing of 59.96 staff-months of overseas and local trainings
held in various subjects, including NBFI regulation and supervision, efficient management of
supervisory resource, bank credit analysis, banking risk assessment and measurement; ii)
upgrading the Credit information System.

        Especially, with the upgraded Credit Information System at BOM, more comprehensive
information on borrowers in default became available to be shared among banks and between the
banks and the central bank.

Golomt Bank

        The technical assistance under PSDC for Golomt Bank financed i) the development and
implementation of an institutional development program; and ii) staff training in commercial
banking skills.

        Over the project implementation period, Golomt Bank has used 89 percent or
US$356,000 of its TA allocation for i) contracting with Fischer Woodbridge Consulting Group to
develop the Institutional Development Program; ii) financing of 91.4 staff-months of overseas and
local trainings held in different subjects, including private banking, e-banking, communication
skills, credit risk management, corporate strategy, and macro economic policy and public finance.



                                                  - 23 -

        The Golomt Bank is fully satisfied with the consulting services provided by
Fischer-Woodbridge Group. The consultants assisted the bank in strategic business planning;
term-lending capacity building; information systems development; human resources policy and
other related area.

Trade and Development Bank (TDB)

        The TDB management originally has requested technical assistance under PSDC in i) the
renewal of the credit processing and management system, and ii) staff training in commercial
banking skills. Waiting for the pilot testing of banking business software under the ADB
accounting project and a decision made by new management appointed as a result of privatization,
TDB used none of technical assistance until November 2003, which seriously affected the
disbursement rate of the funds under this component.

        With the new management on board, TDB has disbursed 59.6 percent or US$358,000 of
its TA allocation for i) enhancing its Treasury and Management Information Systems; ii)
financing of 44.72 staff-months of overseas and local trainings held in various subjects, including
financial management, syndicated loans, business communication and investment projects.

Zoos Bank

        In July 2002, Zoos Bank became the third commercial bank to participate in the project.
Zoos Bank was added to the PSDC project as a PFI with the condition to implement a technical
assistance plan on training courses, on-site trainings with foreign banks, and in-house "twinning
arrangements" using expatriate experts with experience in longer term lending for capital
investment. For this purpose, US$300,000 had been allocated to Zoos Bank out of unallocated
amount of Technical Assistance component.

        At the end of project, Zoos Bank has disbursed 39.7 percent or US$119,000 of its TA
allocation for financing of 51.92 staff-months overseas and local trainings held in various subjects,
including new loan products, credit risk management, banking marketing, private banking, long
term financing and credit evaluation. An expatriate expert as risk management manager has been
recruited to provide assistance to the Zoos Bank under the Financial Capacity Development
Project (FCDP) funded also by IDA. In addition, PSDC Task team provided hands-on trainings to
the Zoos Bank on the processing and risk management of term loans.

Counterpart Working Group (CWG)

        The Counterpart Working Group (CWG), especially formed for the PSDC was
responsible on behalf of the Government for the overall coordination of the project. The technical
assistance of US$200,000 been allocated for financing the cost of i) a project coordinator, ii)
project support activities, iii) annual audits of project financial statements, and iv) training for
CWG members.




                                                  - 24 -

        Over the project implementation period, the CWG has disbursed 78.85 percent or
US$158,000 of its TA allocation for the above activities. The 2000-2004 project audits were
performed by the NIMM-Audit Co., Ltd.

b) Lessons learned

·       The PSDC technical assistance program has produced positive results, especially in
        improving quality of bank supervision, institutional capacity building of Golomt Bank, and
        upgrading the Credit Information System. However, the implementation of this
        component was much slow than we expected. This was mostly due to no activity being
        initiated under the TDB program until the end of 2003.

·       Majority of the training activities were short-term, ranging from two-day in country
        workshops to two-week overseas training sessions. Training programs developed by PFIs
        should be linked with staff job description and performance evaluation and career
        development.

·       Timely reallocation of TA portion, with no realistic prospect of use, to the other
        component of the project shall allow for better utilization of the PSDC proceeds.

CONCLUSION

·       The developmental objective of PSDC has been achieved and project implementation was
        satisfactory having contributed to Mongolia's financial sector capacity building and
        increased availability of longer-term financing for small-and medium-sized enterprises.

·       IDA has rated PSDC project one of the best performing bank operations in the country in
        terms of results achieved and credit disbursement rate. The longer maturities continue to
        attract strong demand for the use of the credit line based on the pipelines provided by
        PFIs. All parties, including the Government, commercial banks and private enterprises are
        very much interested in continuing the same operation in the country. To scale up the
        development gains achieved under the project and to increase the access to capital
        investment loans of intermediate maturity, IDA agreed to implement a PSDC follow up
        project.

·       IDA played an important role in the project preparation and implementation period. IDA
        performance was rated satisfactory. Throughout the life of the project, Task team had a
        good working relationship with the Borrower to achieve the successful completion of the
        project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.




                                                 - 25 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


    Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Objectives             Output Indicators/Results             Impacts of Project Activities
Promotion of
Private Sector
Development
- alleviation of       - Over 50 sub-loans were made         Growing term lending demand and availability as
term-credit            (compared with 42 anticipated at the reflected in the steady increase from the initial level of 1
constraint for private beginning of the project)             percent of total loans outstanding in the banking system
enterprises            - 47 sub-loans were reviewed and      with maturities of more than one year to about 8-10
                       cleared by IDA                        percent at project's closure.
                       - Sub-loans of $1.7 million are on
                       schedule with debt servicing, and
                       - Credit line was disbursed by
                       August 31, 2004
- Improve                                                    Aggregate increase in profitability ­ General improvement
competitiveness and                                          in various business indicators as reported by enterprises
performance of                                               with sub-loans:
private enterprises                                          - Sales increase ­ 75.0 %
                                                             - Exports increase ­ 62.5 %
                                                             - Operating margin increase ­ 79.3%
                                                             - Reduction in input unit cost ­ 45.8%
                                                             - Improved collection ratio ­ 73.3%
                                                             Investment projects financed by approved sub-loans
                                                             achieved projected targets for sales and rate of returns.
                                                             - Sales increase ­ 75.0%
                                                             - Better capital investment ­ 70.8%
                                                             - Diversification of activities ­ 68.7%
                                                             - New sectors ­ 72.0%
                                                             Improved credit culture of PFIs
Institutional
Strengthening
                                                             Improvement in the quality and effectiveness of BOM
                                                             bank supervision - reflected in timely identification of and
                                                             action against violations of the prudential regulations and
                                                             the commercial banking law.
                                                             CIB with its system upgrades has made increased
                                                             contributions to improved credit risk management of
                                                             commercial banks, as reflected in the response from the
                                                             commercial banks




                                                       - 27 -

PFIs                                                               General Impact Indicators for PFIs
                                                                   Progress made by PFIs in financial and credit
                                                                   management reflected in better quality of PFIs Loan
                                                                   Portfolio: Responses from the PFIs through the
                                                                   survey done at the end of the project rated the
                                                                   sub-loan quality as better or much better. The PSDC
                                                                   was rated as substantial in contributing to the PFIs'
                                                                   lending policies and procedures, improving access to
                                                                   foreign commercial funding, developing intermediate
                                                                   lending products, improvement of formulation and
                                                                   implementation of corporate strategy, and expansion
                                                                   of clientele base.
                                                                   Full compliance by PFIs of the BOM prudential
                                                                   regulations throughout the lifetime of the project:
                                                                   Regular reporting allow for close monitoring for full
                                                                   compliance by PFIs.
                                                                   CWG has performed as an effective overseeing and project
                                                                   coordinating body after an initial slow beginning, Since
                                                                   2002, its performance improved as reflected through better
                                                                   PSDC implementation progress and monitoring activities.

Note:      The indicators were substantially monitored and commented in various supervision documents and other
communications. The assessment of outcomes was done on an on-going basis during project implementation, based on
indicators such as employment creation, credit culture change through prior review of sub-loan applications, close monitoring
of sub-loan portfolio quality, and quarterly review of PFI compliance with the central bank's prudential norms. In addition,
supervision missions assessed the BOM supervision effectiveness under the FSAC and interacted quite frequently with the
central bank on the issue. Supervision mission also assessed the outcomes of SME investment projects in addition to the
number of jobs created mainly by interviewing the sub-borrowers and checking physical signs (e.g. whether the production
lines were up and running, or if the machine was just turned on to put up a show for us). Bank supervision missions visited all
the 47 sub-borrowers and a number of sub-borrower candidates. PFIs were asked to report the financials of the top five
sub-borrowers on a quarterly basis, and from time to time received the information. With an average sub-loan size of
US$200,000, and the average sub-project size about US$260,000, there was some difficulty in quantifying the outcomes of such
small investment projects in terms of sales and profitability in Mongolia, as elsewhere, because SMEs were very reluctant to
report the real numbers.




                                                             - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal  Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate   Estimate          Appraisal
                            Component                               US$ million  US$ million
IDA
  - Line of Credit                                                     10.00          9.80               98
  - Technical Assistance                                                2.00          1.40               70
Government and PFIs                                                     2.30          2.30             100

Total Baseline Cost                                                    14.30        13.50
                                Total Project Costs                    14.30        13.50
                      Total Financing Required                         14.30        13.50
Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures in parenthesis are the amount financed by IDA credit.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)

                                                      Procurement Method
Expenditure category                  ICB             NCB          Other        NBF          Total Cost
1. On-lending under                                                12.0                        12.0
credit line                                                        (9.8)                       (9.8)
2. Goods                             0.450                         0.078                      0.528
 - Computer                         (0.375)                       (0.065)                     (0.440)
hardware&equipment
 3. Services
 - Training and study                                              0.716                      0.716
tours                                                             (0.597)                     (0.597)
 - Consulting services &                                           0.425                      0.425
others                                                            (0.425)                     (0.425)
Total                                0.450                        13.865                      14.315
                                    (0.375)                       (11.625)                   (12.000)

Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures in parenthesis are the amount financed by IDA credit.




                                                           - 29 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
  (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                        Procurement Method
  Expenditure category                  ICB             NCB          Other            NBF        Total Cost
   1. On-lending under                                                12.0                          12.0
  credit line                                                         (9.8)                         (9.8)
   2. Goods                              0.4                           0.1                           0.5
    - Computer                          (0.4)                         (0.1)                         (0.5)
  hardware&equipment
    3. Services
    - Training and study                                               0.5                           0.5
  tours                                                               (0.5)                         (0.5)
    - Consulting services &                                            0.5                           0.5
  others                                                              (0.4)                         (0.4)
  Total                                  0.4                          13.1                          13.5
                                        (0.4)                        (10.8)                        (11.2)
   Note:
  1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
  2. Figures in parenthesis are the amount financed by IDA credit


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                      Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  IDA         Govt.        CoF.      IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Line of credit                   10.00                               9.80                        98.0
Technical Assistance              2.00         2.30                  1.40       2.30             70.0   100.0
Total                            12.00         2.30                 11.20       2.30             93.3   100.0

  Note:
  1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.




                                                             - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               5/1997                          3     TTL, 1 TA EXPERT; 1                  S               S
                                                     BANKING EXPERT
               9/1997                          3     TTL, 1 TA EXPERT; 1                  S               S
                                                     BANKING EXPERT

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               3/1999                          5     TTL, 1 TA EXPERT; 1                  S               S
                                                     BANKING EXPERT, 1
                                                     LEAD ECONOMIST; 1
                                                     LEAD PSD SPECIALIST

 Supervision
               6/1999                           2    TTL; 1 TA EXPERT                     S               S
               11/14/1999                       3    TASK TEAM LEADER/SME                 S               S
                                                     (1); TECHNICAL
                                                     ASSISTANCE (1); BANKING
                                                     EXPERT (1)
               03/20/2000                       1    FINANCIAL EXPERT (1)                 S               S
               10/31/2000                       2    LEAD IND. ECONOMIST (1);             S               S
                                                     LEAD PSD SPECIALIST (1)
               05/01/2001                       1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               01/23/2002                       1    PSD SPECIALIST (1)                   S               S
               10/01/2002                       1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S               S
               03/08/2003                       2    TTL (1); PSD SPECIALIST (1)          S               S
               6/2004                           3    TTL, 1 SOE EXPERT; 1                 S               S
                                                     BANKING EXPERT
               11/2004                          1    TTL                                  S               S

 ICR
                                               1      1 ECONOMIST                         S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    43.46                          152.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         37.00                          129.5
  Supervision                                   77.29                          270.5
  ICR                                             9.03                           31.6
  Total                                        166.78                          583.7
Note: 1. Figures do not include Trust Funds. SAP data only show a combined figure for
Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

