Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3226 MOG
Project Agreement
(Private Sector Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GOLOMT BANK
and
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated June 18, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3226 MOG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  June 18, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the "Association”) and GOLOMT BANK and TRADE and DEVELOPMENT BANK (“TDB”).
WHEREAS: (A) By the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Mongolia (the “Borrower”) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
each of the Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank take such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Golomt Bank and the Trade and Development Bank, in 
consideration of the Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with 
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Management and Operations 
of the Golomt Bank and the Trade and Development Bank 
Section 2.01. (a) Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) for Golomt Bank, 
its respective activities under Part  A of the Project and Part B.3 of the Project; 
and (ii) for TDB, its respective activities under Part  A of the Project and Part B.4 
of the Project, and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, economic and managerial standards and practices, with 
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in accordance with:  (i) for 
Golomt Bank, the Golomt Bank Charter and (ii) for TDB, the TDB Charter, and provide 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such purposes.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association and each of the Golomt Bank and Trade and Development 
Bank shall otherwise agree, each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall 
carry out its respective activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, 
respectively, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  undertakes 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall exercise its 
rights in relation to each Sub-Project financed by it through a Sub-loan in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of the Golomt Bank and 
Trade and Development Bank; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit and achieve the objectives of  Part A of  the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) procurement 
of works, goods and  services for the Sub-projects financed by a Sub-loan shall  be 
governed by the provisions of paragraphs 6(b) and 6(c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) procurement of goods and consultants’ services required for Parts 
B.3 and B.4 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall duly 
perform all its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Golomt Bank and 
Trade and Development Bank shall take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or Financing Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall, at the 
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of its respective activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, 
respectively, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Financing Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the objectives of the Project.
(b)
Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall promptly inform 
the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of its respective activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, 
respectively, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
the Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank of their respective obligations under 
this Agreement and under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Financing 
Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.06. (a) Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall 
exchange views with the Association on any proposal to modify the following documents: 
(i) for Golomt Bank, the Golomt Bank Charter; and (ii) for TDB, the TDB Charter.
(b)
From time to time, at the request of any party, each Golomt Bank and 
Trade and Development Bank  shall exchange views with the Borrower and the Association 
on the interest rates to be charged by each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  
in its lending operations in light of its cost of funds and profitability and of 
movements in interest and inflation rates in Mongolia and internationally.
Section 2.07. If any Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  establishes or 
acquires any Subsidiary, such Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall cause 
any such Subsidiary to which the obligations of such Golomt Bank and Trade and 
Development Bank  under this Agreement relate to observe and perform such obligations 
as though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary. 
Section 2.08. (a) Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall carry 
out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of its respective activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and  furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and 
each of said Golomt Bank and Trade and 
Development Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of its 
respective activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the 
Project, respectively; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with each of 
said Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  on each 
said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall 
maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of its 
respective activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, and of 
each Sub-Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to 
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of such Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  
and to register the operations, resources and expenditures related to its respective 
activities under Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, and each 
Sub-Project.
(b)
Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement, 
its 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and 
expenses and related statements)  for each 
Fiscal Year audited in accordance 
with sound auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concern\1fing said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. Each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall take such 
steps, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary to protect itself 
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the 
various currencies (including the Togrog) used in its operations.
Section 3.03. (a) By December 31, 1999, Golomt Bank shall take all such actions, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary to establish and thereafter 
maintain its single borrower exposure to a ratio of 20% or less of its total capital.
(b) Trade and Development Bank shall take all such actions, satisfactory to the 
Association, as shall be necessary to establish and thereafter maintain its single 
borrower exposure to a ratio of 20% or less of its total capital by not later than 
September 30, 2000, with an intermediate ratio of 33.6% by December 31, 1999. For 
these purposes TDB shall implement its Plan of Actions in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the  
Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank thereunder shall terminate on the date on 
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, 
and the Association shall promptly notify the Golomt Bank and Trade and Development 
Bank thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
or any suspension of  either Golomt Bank or Trade and Development Bank to participate 
in carrying out its respective activities under Part A  of the Project pursuant to 
Section III, paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  5
For Golomt Bank:
Sukhbaatar Square 3, Fl. 4
Ulaanbaatar 11/20A
Mongolia
Telex: 
79247 GLMT- MN
For Trade and Development Bank:
Khudaldaany-7
Ulaanbaatar-11
Mongolia
Telex: 
79334TDB-MH
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement, may be taken or executed 
on behalf of Golomt Bank, by its Director General, or such other person or persons 
that the Director General shall designate in writing, and on behalf of Trade and 
Development Bank, by its President and Chief Executive Officer or such other person or 
persons that the President and Chief Executive Officer shall designate in writing, and 
each Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala  
Authorized Representative
GOLOMT BANK
By /s/ D. Bayasgalan and G. Gankhuyag 
Authorized Representative
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ D. Narankhuu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
Page  6
1.
Until the completion of the Project, each of Golomt Bank and Trade and 
Development Bank  shall maintain staff and other requisite resources for carrying out 
its respective activities under Parts A, B.3  and B.4 of the Project, as shall be 
satisfactory to the Association, and each shall take all measures necessary to enable 
said staff to undertake the overall day-to-day supervision and coordination of  its 
respective activities under Parts A, B.3  and B.4 of the Project.
2.
Each of Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall at all times carry out 
the training activities under Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, in 
accordance with annual training programs to be furnished to the Association for prior 
approval not later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal Year 
1999.
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, each of Golomt Bank and Trade and Development Bank  shall:  
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 1, 2002, or such later date as the  
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
Sub-loans shall be made to an Investment Enterprise by a PFI on the following 
terms and conditions: 
(a)  the principal amount of a Sub-loan shall be lent in Togrog or in Foreign 
Currency, shall be payable in the same currency as the principal was lent, and shall 
not exceed 80% of the total estimated cost of the Sub-Project for which said Sub-loan 
is made or $750,000 equivalent, whichever is lower; provided, however, that the 
principal amount of a Sub-loan to a single Investment Enterprise when added to other 
Sub-loans made by all PFIs to such Investment Enterprise shall not exceed, in the 
aggregate, $750,000 equivalent.  
(b)  the principal amount of a Sub-Loan made in Togrog shall be repaid by the 
Investment Enterprise in Togrog in an amount equivalent at the time of withdrawal to 
the amounts withdrawn from time to time from the Sub-loan account. The principal 
amount of a Sub-loan made in Foreign Currency shall be repaid by the Investment 
Enterprise in the same Foreign Currency in an amount equivalent at the time of 
repayment to the value of the foreign currency withdrawn from time to time from the 
Sub-loan account.
(c)  repayment of the principal amount of the Sub-loan, shall not be for less 
than thirty six (36) months nor exceed eighty four (84) months, including a grace 
period not to exceed two (2) years; provided, however, that no penalty for prepayment 
would be charged; and (d)  interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
of a Sub-loan shall be payable at a rate per annum to be determined by agreement 
between the PFI and the Investment Enterprise, taking into account, inter alia, 
prevailing market conditions. 
Page  7
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, to qualify for a Sub-loan, an 
Investment Enterprise shall demonstrate:
(a) 
that the Investment Enterprise meets the following eligibility criteria: 
(i) has been established and operating in Mongolia; (ii) is majority privately owned; 
(iii) has a debt service coverage ratio of 1.3:1 for the life of the Sub-loan; and 
(iv) is creditworthy as demonstrated by no previous loan or commercial defaults. For 
the purpose of this paragraph the term "debt" means any indebtedness of  the 
Investment Enterprise maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred; 
(b) 
that the total estimated Sub-Project costs shall be covered by a minimum 
of 20% from the Investment Enterprises’ own resources, in cash or in kind; 
(c)
that the Sub-project is technically, commercially, financially viable; 
has been designed with due regard to health, safety, resettlement and environmental 
standards, and has a financial rate of return of not less than 13%. 
(d)
for Sub-projects giving rise to the displacement of persons (whether 
physical or economical), that the Investment Enterprise has prepared, and agreed to 
implement, a resettlement action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to improve or 
at least restore the livelihood and standards of living of the displaced persons.  For 
purposes of this sub-paragraph, the term "displaced persons" means persons who are 
affected by the taking of land and other assets as part of the implementation of a 
Sub-Project which directly results in the: (a) involuntary relocation or loss of 
shelter; (b) loss of productive assets or access to productive assets; and (c) loss of 
income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the displaced persons must move 
to another location. 
3.
Sub-loans may finance the cost of equipment, incremental permanent working 
capital, civil works (except housing), technical assistance, services and leasing 
arrangements.  Sub-loans shall not finance the acquisition of, or rights to use land,  
military equipment or activities, consumer loans, and refinancing of existing loans or 
takeover loans.
4.
No expenditures for goods, civil works or services required for a Sub-Project 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit: 
(a)
unless the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Association and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Association shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 5(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or  
(b)
unless the Sub-loan shall have been a Free-limit Sub-loan for which the 
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the 
Association shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 
5(b) below in respect of such Free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, 
a Free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan which shall not exceed the sum of $350,000 
equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such Sub-Project, or such other sum as 
shall be established by the Association, from time to time, by notice to the Borrower; 
provided, however, that Sub-loans financing Sub-projects that will give rise to the 
displacement of persons (as the term is defined in paragraph 2(d) of this Schedule) 
and the first five (5) Sub-loans to be made by each PFI regardless of their individual 
or aggregated amounts, shall not be deemed to be a Free-limit Sub-loan and shall be 
subject to the provisions set forth in sub-paragraph (a) of this Section.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a Free-limit Sub-loan) to the 
Association for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association an 
application, in a form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a 
description of the Sub-borrower and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Association 
shall reasonably request, including a copy of the relevant environmental impact 
assessment and action plan for displaced persons, when appropriate; provided, however, 
Page  8
that the first five (5) Sub-loans proposed to be made by each Golomt Bank and Trade 
and Development Bank, regardless of the amount thereof, shall not be eligible to be 
treated as free-limit Sub-loans and full documentation shall be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to this sub-paragraph for approval of such Sub-loans. 
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account in respect of a Free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Sub-borrower and Sub-Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan.  (c)
Applications and requests made pursuant 
to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented 
to the Association on or before August  31, 2002.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise, or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and the PFI, 
including the right to: 
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Sub-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, resettlement, environmental and managerial standards, including the 
implementation of the action plan for displaced persons (as the term is defined in 
paragraph 2(d) of this Schedule) and to maintain adequate records; 
(b)
require that goods and works under contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more per contract shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the "Guidelines"), as further 
revised in paragraph 2., Part A, Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)  goods, services and works, other than those set out in paragraph (b) above, 
shall be purchased at a reasonable price following the established commercial 
procedures, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as: (i) in the 
case of goods, timely delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor; (ii) in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (iii) 
in the case of works, the technical quality and the competitive cost therefor, and 
with respect to all such contracts the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply; 
(d)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and constructions and 
installations, as the case may be, included in the Sub-Project, the operation thereof, 
and any relevant records and documents; 
(e)  obtain all such information as the Association, the Borrower or the PFI 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the Investment Enterprise, and to the benefits 
to be derived from the Sub-Project; and
(f)  suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the PFI.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 
Page  9
1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A, 
(the “Guidelines”), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
(a)
Paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines is modified to read as follows: “1.6. The 
proceeds of the Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods and 
works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries. Consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall not be eligible to bid 
for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.” 
(b)
The reference in paragraph 1.8 of the Guidelines to “member country” 
shall be deemed to be a reference to “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National and International Shopping 
Goods under Part B.4 of the Project estimated to cost less than two hundred 
thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed four hundred and forty thousand dollars ($440,000) equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of  shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand 
dollars ($50,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, that with respect to contracts 
procured under national and international shopping procedures estimated to cost above 
the said threshold the following procedures shall apply:  
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the relevant 
PFI shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
relevant PFI shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  10
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A, (the "Consultant Guidelines”) and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
(a)
The first sentence of Section 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines is 
modified to read as follows: “Only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and 
individuals and personnel who are nationals of, Participating Countries shall be 
eligible to compete for services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.” 
(b)
The reference in subparagraph (a) of Section 1.10 of the Consultant 
Guidelines to "member country” shall be deemed to be a reference to “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
 Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
Services for technical assistance under Part B.4 of the Project estimated to 
cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred and sixty five thousand dollars 
($165,000) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least Cost Selection 
Services for technical assistance under Part B.3 of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
Page  11
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
