Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18128
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
THE RIWANDESE REPUBLIC
SECTORAL AND PRE INVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(CR'EDIT 1796-RW)
June 30, 1998
Macroeconomics 3
Economic Management and Social Policy
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =     (Rwanda Franc)
1989: US$1.00                 RWF 80
1990: US$1.00           =     RWF 83
1991: US$1.00           =     RWF 125
1993: US$1.00           =     RWF 144
1996: US$1.00           =     RWF 307
1997: US$1.00                 RWF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
RWANDESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS.
AfDB              African Development Bank
BUNEP:            Bureau National d'Etudes des Projets [National Project Studies Office]
CIC:              Comite Interministeriel de Coordination [Interministerial Coordination
Committee]
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
EU                European Union
ICR:              Implementation Completion Report
IDA:              International Development Association
MINIPLAN':        Ministry of Planning
PIP:              Public Investment Program
PIPEX:            Public Investment and Foreign Aid Program
PR:               IDA President's Report
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
UNDP:             United Nations Development Program
Vice President                        C. Madavo
Director                              N. Tcheyan
Sector Manager                        L. Barbone
Staff Member                          C. Obidegwu, Sr. Economist
I     Currently part-of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R.WANDA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECTORAL AND PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(Study Fund II)
(Credlit 1796-RW)
Table of Contents
SUMMARY EVALUATION                                                              iii
Part I - THE BANK'S ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT                                   6
A. Introduction                                                                 6
B. Project Objectives and Design                                                7
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                            9
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                          12
E. Project Sustainability                                                      13
F. Borrower Performance                                                        13
G. The Bank's Performance                                                      14
H. Assessment of Impact                                                         14
1. Conclusions and lessons Learned                                              15
Part II - EVALUATION FROM THE BORROVVER'S PERSPECTIVE                           17
Part III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                              21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



RWANDA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECTORAL AND PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES FUND
(Credit 1796-RW)
PREFACE
1.    This document is the implementation completion report (ICR) of the Sectoral and Pre-
Investment Studies Fund (Studies Fund II) for Rwanda, Credit no 1 796-RW, in the amount of
SDR 5.9 million. This credit became effective in August 1989 and was closed on October 31,
1997, three years after the initially scheduled date of June 1994. The project was amended two
times, without affecting its primary objectives. The first amendment occurred in 1995, and
added a new category: studies to support the adjustment program, and provided for the
recruitment of a National Coordinator and a small supporting staff. The second amendment,
approved in February 1997, reallocated the remaining project resources to strengthen support for
the capacity building. At the same time, the allocation for the Documentation Center was
canceled.
2.    Despite the fact that the project was extended three times, not all the credit had been
disbursed as of October 31, 1997. Out of SDR 5.9 million, 3.99 million, or 67.6 percent, was
disbursed.
3.    The initial draft of this completion report was prepared by a Rwandese consulting firm,
GRAD SARL under the supervision of Mr. Francois Kanimba of the Bank's Resident Mission in
Kigali. The report was subsequently finalized by Mr. Chukwuma Obidegwu.
4.    This ICR is based on the Credit Agreement, the IDA President's Report, the appraisal
report, the available audit reports, the supervision mission reports, the internal memoranda of the
Bank, and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower.



RWANDA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECTORAL AND PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(Credit 1796-RW)
SUMMARY EVALUATION
Objectives of the Project
1.   The main objectives of the project were to: (i) better define the government's
development objectives and determine appropriate strategies to fulfill them; (ii) continue to
produce studies on projects capable of attracting external financing; and (iii) strengthen the
Borrower's capabilities for project preparation. At the request of the Government, the project
resources were reallocated in 1995 to include a sub-component to provide support for the
adjustment program and provide for a project coordination unit. Furthermore, the Bank and the
Borrower agreed to put emphasis on capacity building and institutional rehabilitation, to assist in
the economic reconstruction effort. Under this, the project provided support for preparing the
public investment program, with support for training, computers and office equipment, and for
the rehabilitation of the budget and planning process generally.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.    The start-up of the project was delayed by two years because funds were still available in
the preceding IDA supported technical assistance project (Study Fund I). While the DCA was
signed in June 1987 and the project became effective a year later, the first disbursements were
made in 1990. Subsequently, project implementation suffered from political and administrative
instability. A civil war broke out in October 1990, culminating in the genocide of 1994 in which
up to 800,000 people were killed and another two million left the country into refugee camps in
neighboring countries. The government in powe;r before and during the genocide was ousted and
new government of national unity was installed i[n July 1994.
3.    Project implementation took place in periods of civil conflict and political and economic
instability. From 1990-94, the country was gripped with civil war and a struggle for power
between the government and its opponents. It waLs not an environment that favored government
commitment to planning and capacity building. The new Government that took office in 1994
expressed strong commitment to economic development, and capacity building. However, the
1994-96 period was a very difficult one and the Government was pre-occupied by the need to
consolidate its power, the restorate peace and security throughout the country and the facilitate
the return of the Rwandan refugees from the refugee camps in neighboring countries. Besides,
the government was new and largely inexperienced, and the institutional capacity of the country
had been decimated by the genocide. Consequenlly its capacity to use the resources of the
-111-



project, even though the needs were even more evident, was limited. In the 1996 CPPR, the
Bank and the Government agreed to extend the life of the project by only six months (to June 30,
1997) and then close it.
4.    Overall, the implementation performance and impact was unsatisfactory as none of the
major objectives was attained Throughout the life of the Project (1988-1997), only twenty-one
(21) studies were carried out, compared to fifty (42) under the preceding technical assistance and
studies project ( Study Fund I, 1217-RW), signed in 1982. Over 50 percent of the 21 studies
completed resulted in donor-supported projects, with financing from primarily IDA, AfDB, and
the European Union. The start-up of new investments and the implementation and impact of
those made were adversely affected by the instability prevailing in the region. Inadequate Bank
supervision and the lack of counterpart fund from the government contributed to the poor project
performance in 1990-93. In 1995, an effort was made to revive the project in the context of the
overall effort to improve the IDA portfolio. Supervision effort was increased. There was an
improvement in project implementation. The work on development objectives and strategies
started in 1996 while the training programs and seminars envisaged by the project were revived
in late 1995. However, these efforts suffered from the lack of government staff with basic skills
to carry out analytical tasks or benefit from training. The availability of counterpart funds
continued to be a problem, inspite of the amendment of the DCA that reduced the government's
contribution to 5 percent for local purcases and none for foreign purchases.
Sustainability
5.    The sustainability of the limited outcomes will depend partly on success of the
government's efforts to rebuild institutional capacities and improve staff skills and qualifications,
so that the staff can provide effective management of the project results, and produce studies on
projects related to those already completed and which will attract external financing. Rebuilding
institutional capacities and skills in turn depends on the progress in bringing about social and
political stability, which require the cessation of the violent conflicts which continue to plague
Rwanda and the Great Lakes sub-region.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
6.    None of the three main objectives of the project was attained satisfactorily. The
implementation was poor. The project was a victim of the political and administrative
instability, with one ministerial reshuffling after another, accompanied by a great deal of
turnover on the part of professional staff in the central government. Until 1996, no coordination
unit was in place to monitor progress and ensure fulfillment of the project objectives. The
coordination committee (CIC) required by the project, never functioned. The lack of counterpart
funds undermined the implementation of the project. The military conflict, and the political and
administrative instabilities tended to accentuate the institutional weaknesses and the budget
constraints. The preceding and similar TA project (Study Fund I) was implemented under stable
conditions and was judged by the ICR to have been successful. This would seem to indicate that
the instabilities in 1990-94, played a major role in the poor performance of the Study Fund II
project during this period.
-iv-



7.    The lack of technical capacity to initiate and supervise project financed studies was a
problem, which only got worse as instability continued to unfold. The UNDP technical
assistance was expected to continue to provide support to the Government for executing the
project but the tri-partite (GORJUNDP/World Bank) collaborative effort of preceding Study
Fund I could not be sustained due to the delay in getting Study Fund II underway as well as the
irregular Bank supervison. Besides in the unstable environment, UNDP faced pressures to use its
resources to support the Government. The conimitment of the Government was weak as it was
preoccupied with more pressing security and survival matters. A full time coordination unit did
not exist and the management and the coordination of the project suffered from lack of
continuity, with the high turnover of ministers and civil servants. Some changes--the
appointment of a full-time coordinator, more supervision and dialogue on the project with the
Government, and emphasis on capacity building--were put in place on 1995/96.
8.    Fundamental changes occurred in the project environment, starting with the civil war in
1990, but the responses to these changes by the Bank and the Borrower were inadequate or late
to save the project. The changes in the envirorunent required a reevaluation of project objectives,
design, implementation modalities and supervision by the Bank. Due to its multi-sectoral nature,
the project, in any case, needed intensive supervision, requiring different specialized experts, as
well as active involvement of Bank sector specialists. The conflict in Rwanda made it difficult to
assemble the necessary expertise as often as was necessary. Consequently, the supervision was
below what was planned in the President's Report during 1987 to 1993. A strong supervision
effort, which was instrumental to the success oi the Study Fund I, according to its ICR, would
enabled the Bank to identify the actual and potential difficulties, and to take corrective measures,
including canceling the project.
9.    The three main lessons from this project are: (i) the need to frequently evaluate the
appropriateness of the objectives, design and implementation arrangements of a technical
assistance project, especially in situations of political and administrative instabilities; (ii) the
need for strong supervision efforts, involving the use of specialized expertise, for broad
multisectoral TA projects, and (iii) should the situation arise, as in this case, that a project cannot
be adequately supervised, it should be cancelled.
_v



R,WANDA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECTORAL AND PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(Credit 1796-RW)
Part I
THE BANK'S ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This project, which received an IDA credit valued at SDR 5.9 million, was signed on
June 24, 1987. It was the second technical asisistance agreement between the World Bank and
Rwanda for project studies.
Country Background
2.    Rwanda is a small-sized country covering an area of 26,338 kmn2, with a population of
7.9 million in 1997, and very high population growth rate of about 3.7 percent a year. Its
population density is the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Development in Rwanda has always
been handicapped by civil conflict and a shortage of personnel with administrative, technical,
and management qualifications.
3.    Between 1959 and 1973, the country experienced repeated ethnic conflict which forced a
significant part of the population into exile in neighboring countries. A civil war, triggered in
1990 by exiles seeking to return to Rwanda, gave way in March 1991 to a cease-fire and a fragile
power-sharing agreement brokered by international mediators. This was to be underpinned by
political reforms aimed at democratization ancl national reconciliation. However,
implementation of the accords lagged, and the political transition was derailed in April 1994 by
the genocide and the death of up to 800,000 people, the exodus of two million refugees to
neighboring countries, and the internal displacement of another one million people. Most of the
old case load (pre-1994) and new case load (1'994) refugees have returned to Rwanda in 1994/95
and 1996 respectively. However armed conflict has continued to plague Rwanda, elements of
the pre-genocide army and militia continue to carry out armed attacks in Rwanda.
4.    This shortage of skilled staff seriously limited the government's capacity to prepare and
carry out development projects in all sectors. To help correct this situation, The Government
signed a credit agreement (credit 1217-RW) vith IDA in 1982 for a First Technical Assistance
Project (Study Fund I). Its primary objective was to put in place a portfolio of studies on projects
capable of attracting financing as development projects or that would create conditions
conducive to initiating other financing studies. This project met with considerable success. Upon
-6,-



its completion, 42 studies had been carried out in the fields of transportation, industry,
agriculture, urban affairs, water, energy, and communications.
5.    When Study Fund I project was over, however, it left an impression of unfinished
business. The project had in fact created a sizable portfolio of studies ready for financing. It had
also created many expectations as to improvements in the government's capacity to prepare and
implement projects. Yet at the same time, it was evident that there was an enormous amount of
work to be done. Many studies that had been initiated were not yet completed, and others were
being prepared. In these circumstances, and encouraged by the success of Study Fund I project,
Rwanda requested a second credit. This one, known as the Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies
Project, was identified in May 1985, signed on June 24, 1987, and became effective on August
18, 1988. Project start-up however was delayed because funds for technical assistance and
studies were still available under Studies I project which closed on May 17, 1991.
6.    Like the Studies Fund I project, the Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies Project was also
colinanced by the UNDP. The cofinancing was projected at $342,000, the actual amount being
one million, five hundred ninety thousand U.S. dollars ($1,590,000).
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
Objectives
7.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) better define the government's
development objectives and determine appropriate strategies to fulfill them; (ii) continue to
produce studies on projects capable of attracting external financing; and (iii) strengthen the
Borrower's capabilities for project preparation. At the request of the Government, the project
resources were reallocated in 1995 to include a sub-component to provide support for the
adjustrnent program and provide for a project coordination unit. Furthernore, the Bank and the
Borrower agreed in 1995 to put emphasis on capacity building and institutional rehabilitation, to
assist in the economic reconstruction effort. Under this, the project provided support for
preparing the public investment program, with support for training, computers and office
equipment, and for the rehabilitation of the budget and planning process generally.
Project Components
8.    The project consisted of the following components:
* Assistance in identifying, preparing, and implementing macroeconomic, sectoral and
Pre-investment studies;
* Training of selected personnel in the preparation, implementation, and monitoring of
government investment programs, project preparation, appraisal and management, and in
macroeconomic and sectoral policies;
-7-



* Completion of the documentation center;
* Logistical support, including vehicles, as needed to perform the tasks listed above.
Studies
9.    The Ministry of Planning was in charge of coordinating efforts to set up a quarterly
program of sectoral strategy studies, pre-feasibility and feasibility studies, technical studies, and
other Pre-investment studies, and was also responsible for monitoring the execution of these
studies. The studies were selected on the basis of the procedures and criteria indicated below.
10.   Selection procedures. The selection procedures to be applied in choosing the studies to
be included in the quarterly program were as follows: (i) the different ministries would propose
studies to the Ministry of Planning, for its consideration; (ii) once it had examined them, the
Ministry of Planning would submit these studies to the CIC (Interministerial Coordination
Committee); and (iii) on the basis of the recommendations made by the CIC, the Ministry of
Planning would draw up a quarterly program of studies which would be submitted to the
Association for its approval.
11.   To qualify for this program, all sectoral, subsectoral, prefeasibility, feasibility, technical
studies, and any other pre-investment studies would have to be part of Rwanda's public
investment program or provide analytical support to the adjustment program, and, umless
otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association, should not cost more than $250,000 at
1987 prices. In addition, all studies in each category must comply with the following criteria:
*  Feasibility studies: these studies relate to investment projects included in the public
investment program or in sectoral programs for which a financing source has been
identified;
* Technical studies: these studies relate to investment projects which a feasibility study
has already demonstrated to be viable;
*  Rehabilitation studies: these studies relate to state-owned enterprises which have been
proven to be economically and finanicially viable.
Training ofpersonnel
12.   To increase local skills, the credit was supposed to finance training programs covering the
preparation of public investments, the elaboration of the public investment program, and
preparation, appraisal and management of projects. The training component focused on training
programs and seminars organized locally; and training abroad in planning agencies and training
institutions, workshops and seminars, and study tours. Following the reallocation of the
resources of the project in 1995, studies and training on the management of the adjustment
program, including for building public awareness on major policy reform issues such as
privatization and land reform, were added to the program.
-8-



The Documentation Center
13.   The project was expected to provide technical material, including books, specialized
journals, studies, and other material, to the Documentation Center in the Ministry of Planning,
built using financing from IDA credit No.1217-RW (Study Fund I). In 1996, as a result of
concerns over sustainability of the Documentation Center, the resources allocated to it were
reallocated to other high priority needs.
Logiitical Support
14.   The project also included plans to finance vehicles and other equipment needed for the
planning, statistics, and project offices, up to a maximum of US$90,000. Following the
amendment of the DCA in 1995 to establish a project coordination unit, additional resources
were allocated to this component to pay the full-time project coordinator and two support staff,
and provide them with office equipment -- computers, copiers and facsimile facilities.
15.   The DCA of the project specified procurement procedures and consultant services as well.
Contracts which were estimated to cost the equivalent of or more than $50,000 would be
governed by the procedures described in paragraphs 2 and 4 of the annex to the IDA Guidelines.
Contracts estimated at a cost of $20,000 or less could be awarded after an invitation to bid in
accordance with the borrower's requirements; and comparing the bids of at least three suppliers.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General Performance
16.   The implementation performance of the Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies Fund was
unsatisfactory. The Borrower failed to honor its commitments and Bank supervision was
inadequate, particularly in 1987-94. The Borrower did not make regular payments of its
cournterpart funds. The audit reports as a rule were submitted very late, with the exception of the
1997 report. The institutional framework for planning, programming budgeting of investments,
which was to be developed and confirmed with IDA by the end of 1988, was never prepared by
the government. Work on the definition of clear development objectives and sector strategies did
not take place until 1996. It was not until after 1995 that broad-based seminars on the major
issues facing the nation were organized. Bank supervision was inadequate and irregular during
1987-94 in comparison with the plans indicated in the IDA PR, which recommended two (2)
supervision missions a year. Project monitoring was also negligent, as it was not until November
1993 that the Bank requested the audit reports from previous years.
17.   Efforts to attain the second objective, namely, preparation of studies on projects likely to
attract external financing, also met with limited success. Twenty one studies were completed,
well below what was expected, and inadequate in comparison to the 42 produced by Studies
Fund I. Quarterly programs of studies were never drawn up. The sectoral CICs, which were
supposed to foster better coordination of project activities, were never set up. The main
coordinating committee (CIC), the Interministerial Committee for Planning ceased to function
-9-



during project implementation. The improvement of local skills through training programs and
the organization of seminars was not satisfactory either. This component got off to a slow start,
and did not begin to pick up steam until 1996. Due to the acute shortage of skilled staff in
Government, the staff who attended training programs did not always have the requisite training
and experience to benefit from training in project preparation and planning.
18.   Efforts were made by the Bank and the Borrower to revive the project in 1995/96 in the
context of the overall IDA portfolio improvement. It was agreed to put emphasis on capacity
building in general and in the development of ihe public investment program, macroeconomic
policies and associated sectoral strategies, and to support the reform program. This was with a
view of supporting the overall reconstruction and economic recovery program. A project
coordination unit was put in place. The initial closing date of December 1994 was extended to
December 1996 and the resources of the project were reallocated to reflect this new orientation.
Some progress was made in completing old studies and launching new ones, and, as indicated
above, in developing strategies and providing training programs. However, this effort was
hindered by the lack of capacity in government, the pace of implementation was slow, and the
benefits of the training programs were limited. During the CPPR in November 1996, it was
decided by the Bank and the Borrower that the project would be closed in June 30, 1997.
Disbursements
19.   According to the PR, disbursements would begin in 1989, and were to reach SDR 3.99
million by the end of the 1990 fiscal year. On that date, SDR 438,829 had been disbursed, or
only 11 percent of the amount estimated pursuant to the Credit Agreement. The credit was
scheduled to be closed on December 31, 1994, at which time SDR 1,761,351.72, or 30 percent of
the total credit, had been disbursed. After two extensions, and despite the accelerated
disbursements in 1996 and 1997 amounting to 37 percent of the initial credit, the project closed
with only SDR 3,994,553.77, or 68 percent of the credit disbursed.
Training
20.   The training component got off to a slow start. In 1990-94, the training concentrated on
sending senior government staff abroad to participate in seminars and training courses. In 1995-
97, the project concentrated on training programs in Rwanda, bringing in foreign experts when
necessary. A Rwandan training specialist was employed to assist the project coordination unit in
organizing the training programs. The project financed twelve training courses for two hundred
and two (202) senior government employees on the subjects of the project cycle and PIP. Fifty
professional staff working on projects financecl by the World Bank participated in five (5)
courses for training in project planning and supervision, using computers. Eight broad-based
seminars were organized on major topics of national interest, which were directly related to
socio-economic factors such as the PIP, macroeconomic policy, privatization of state-owned
enterprises, evaluation of sectoral strategies, land ownership problems following the war and
genocide from October 1990 to July 1994, the data base system for management of PIPEX
(Public Investment and Foreign Aid Programs), and the national water and sanitation policy.
Five hundred and fifty (550) persons participaled in these seminars. However, due to the lack of
-10-



professional staff with the basic qualifications and experience to benefit from the
training/seminars, the positive impact of these training programs on learning and performance
would likely be limited.
Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies
21.  Under the project, fifty-three studies were initiated over the 10 years of the project. These
studies reached varying stages of completion, but only twenty-one were actually completed.
Five planned studies encountered problems at the bidding stage and the time of signing contracts
and were eventually dropped, five others were ended after the invitation to bid were prepared,
and the TORs for remaining twenty-two were not approved by IDA. This poor performance was
due to a shortage of qualified personnel to initiate, define terms of reference, process proposals,
and carry out and supervise these studies. In addition, the lack of coordination greatly hampered
efforts to define study priorities and expedite the decision-making and programming process.
Compouniding these problems was the high turnover of senior staff and the lack of motivation
due to declining pay and job instability.
22.   Studies were completed in the following fields: agriculture, livestock, fishing, forestry,
macroeconomic policy, energy, transportation and communications, urban development, and
water (see table 7). Some of the completed studies (50 percent) were turned into projects, which
have either been completed or are in progress. Other studies have not been usefully exploited
due to the political and administrative instability. Work to rebuild squatter settlements was
suspended in 1993 following the signing of the Arusha Peace Agreements, which recommended
that the national housing policy be revised to take account of the needs of all Rwanda refugees
prior to 1990, once they are repatriated. The audit reports show that sectoral studies on coffee
and livestock were carried out. However, the ministry for that sector is not even aware of them,
as, the reference materials and files were pillaged or destroyed during the April 1994 war. The
IDA President's Report provided a list of nineteen studies which had been identified at the time
the Agreement was signed (see table 8). Virtually none of these studies was carried out. The
government was also expected to build the capacity of the local consulting or research firms, and
especially BUNEP (National Project Studies Office). No measures were adopted to facilitate the
developmrrent of these firms, and BUNEP, which was supposed to be the center for the studies to
be performed, was abolished.
23.   A project coordination unit was finally set up in March 1996, i.e., ten (10) months before
the end of the first extension. This made it possible (i) to close the contracts which had been
completeid but which still had unresolved problems, (ii) to continue the work on the ongoing
studies, (iii) to launch new studies, and (iv) to coordinate training. During this short period of
time, there was a great deal of activity in comparison with the previous fiscal years.
Improveiment of Coordination for Investment Planning
24.   To ensure the effective management of the Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies Fund
Project, plans were made to set up seven interministerial coordination committees [CICs] to
promote intersectoral coordination among the institutions involved in the area of development
-11-



policy. CICs were to be established in the folloing areas: (i) Rural development and health;
(ii) Economic policy; (iii) Industrial policy; (iv) Hiousing, urban affairs, and regional
development; (v) Political affairs and security; (vi) Promotion of training, employment, and
youth programs; and, (vii) Planning and international cooperation. These CICs were never put in
place and no improvements in coordination were realized. This is due in large part to the
political instability which reigned throughout the duration of the project, and which was reflected
in frequent ministerial reshuffling accompanied by a great deal of mobility on the part of central
government officials and senior civil servants.
Setting up the Documentation Center
25.   Under the project, the Documentation CerLter was supposed to receive books, technical
journals, and educational material. It was agreed at the time that the borrower would contribute
20 percent of the financing and IDA Credit No. 1796-RW would cover 80 percent. The borrower
did virtually nothing to equip the documentation center. This inaction was probably due to the
lack of counterpart funds as prescribed in the Agreement and to failure to follow through, as well
as an unannounced change in priorities. This conmponent, which remained inactive for six (6)
years, was effectively canceled by the reallocation of its budget to other activities in January,
1996.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFIZECTING THE PROJECT
The main factors that adversely affected the implementation and achievements of the project
were the following:
* The political and administrative instability, including the effects of the civil war which
started in 1990, the long and delicate negotiations for political reforms and peace, and
the genocide and the escalation of the civil war in 1994;
* The lack of counterpart funds following the economic crisis which was largely t]he result
of political instability and the October 1990 to July 1994 war, and the steep decline in
government revenues following the genocide as well as the increased needs for
rehabilitation in 1995-97.
+ The shortage of qualified government staff to prepare study proposals that would meet
eligibility criteria;
* The high turnover of professional staff in the government in 1990-94, and from 1995, the
lack of experience in goverment by the new government officers.
* The lack of consultation, coordination, and monitoring of projects initiated by the
technical ministries;
* The inadequate capacity of the units in charge of implementing and managing the
project.
-12-



26.   The ministries were not in a position to use the resources provided by the project, because
of the inexperience of their staff in the areas of studies and planning. The CIC, which was
operational for Studies Fund I Project, fell into disuse after the ministerial reshuffling in 1989.
The formation of a multi-party government in April 1992 meant that positions were not filled on
the basis of qualifications, but on the basis of membership in one political party or another.
27.   At the beginning of the project, the cofinancing by the UNDP was seen as a positive
factor ifor the project. A tri-partite (GOR/UNDP/World Bank) collaborative effort instrumental to
the success of the preceding project (Study Fund I). This success was a key building block for
Study 'Fund II. The UNDP technical assistance was expected to continue to provide support to
the Government for executing the project but the collaborative effort could not be sustained due
to the delay in getting Study Fund II underway as well as the irregular Bank supervison. Besides
in the unstable environment, UNDP faced pressures to use its resources to support the
Government. Another positive factor was the strong commitment of the post-war Government to
change and to moving ahead with the project. The impact was however limited by lack of
capacity.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The sustainability of the limited achievements will depend partly on success of the
government's efforts to rebuild institutional capacities and improve staff skills and qualifications,
so that the staff can provide effective management of the project results, and produce studies on
projects related to those already completed and which will attract external financing. Rebuilding
institutional capacities and skills in turn depends on the progress in bringing about social and
political stability, which require the cessation of the violent conflicts which continue to plague
Rwanda and the Great Lakes sub-region.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   The Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. Counterpart funds were only partially
provided. Project coordination by the Borrower was poor. The CICs, which were meant to
ensure improved coordination of all the different project activities, were never established. The
institutional framework for planning, programming budgeting of investments, which was to be
developed and confirmed with IDA by the end of 1988, was never prepared by the government.
Work on the definition of clear development objectives and sector strategies did not take place
until 1 996. Audit reports were supposed to be submitted within the six months following the
end of each fiscal year. With the exception of 1997, these reports came in from three to thirty
months late. In 1995, the Borrower renewed interest in the project and requested an extension of
the closing date and the appointment of the coordinator. The Government that took office in 1994
expressed strong committment to economic development, planning and capacity building.
However, during the difficult period of 1994-96, its main pre-occupations were the consolidation
of its power, the restoration of peace in the country, and the return of the Rwandan refugees from
the refugee camps in neighboring countries. Besides, the government was new and largely
inexperienced, and the institutional capacity of the country had been decimated by the genocide.
Consequently its capacity to use the resources of the project, even though the needs were even
-13-



more evident, was limited. In the 1996 (CPPR, the Bank and the Government agreed to extend
the life of the project by only six months (to June 30, 1997) and then close it.
G. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
30.   The Bank's response to the Rwandese Government's request for the Sectoral and Pre-
investment Studies Fund Project was rapid. The project was identified and approved even before
the Studies Fund I had run out (Credit No. 1217-RW). The Bank responded to some of the
problems encountered in the implementation of the project. The Bank agreed to amend the DCA
to (i) reduce significantly the counterpart requirements from the Government; (ii) put in place a
project coordination unit; (iii) reallocate ithe project resources to provide for studies to support
the adjustment program and to put emphasis on capacity building; and (iv) extend the closing
date of the project three times at the request of the Government. From 1995, the Bank increased
its supervision effort and worked with the Government to re-orient the project to meet priority
capacity building needs and improvements in the PIP, macroeconomic policies and sector
strategies. Coordination and implementation improved. As noted earlier, the weak capacities
slowed implementation and the Bank and the Governmentagreed to close the project in June
1997.
31.   However, the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. The Bank's response to the
changes in the project's environment was late. Supervision was inadequate during the 1989,
1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993 fiscal years. The irregularity in supervision, in comparison with the
schedule in the PR, which stipulated two supervision missions a year, was very apparent during
the project start-up stage (1989 and 1990'). There were four supervision missions in 1991, 1992,
and 1993, and finally four more in 1996 and 1997. The changes made from 1995/96, to put in a
coordination unit and increase supervision, would not be enough to change the overall rating,
since due to lack of capacity, the impact of these would be limited.
32.   Relations between the Bank and the Rwandese government were generally satisfactory.
The close collaboration with UNDP for 'Study Fund I did not appear to carry through for Study
Fund II. In the post-war period, the UNDP' assistance was primarily devoted to supporting the
two Round Table conferences held in 1995 and 1996. However, UNDP continued to support a
number of UN volunteers in MINIPLAN who were assisting the Government in the preparation
of the Public Investment Program.
H. ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT
33.  Investments have been made on the basis of the studies performed. Some of these
investments were financed by IDA, and others by the AfDB and the European Union. Over half
of these projects for been completed or are under way. The rehabilitation of the water supply
system in rural'areas and the water supply infrastructure component in the health and population
project provided part of the rural population with a drinking water system. The feasibility study
on hydroelectric power plants for Nyabarongo-Rusumo-Akanyaru led to the studies on the
building of a hydroelectric power plant on the Nyabarongo. The work will begin shortly. In the
-14-



short run, jobs will be created, and in the medium run, energy production will have a positive
social and economic impact on the beneficiary population.
34.   A feasibility study financed by the project led to the reconstruction of the Nyabugogo bus
station, which is now in operation. The station, located in downtown Kigali, has helped alleviate
the tralffic congestion. A range of different businesses has developed around Nyabugogo station,
and this has helped increase value added and created jobs. The project financed a study to
evaluate the options for the exploitation of woods form the Zaire-Nile-Crest. The government is
looking for private companies to operate the industry in a cost-effective, environmentally
friendly way. This will have an economic impact, by creating jobs and by increasing the value
added and income for the neighboring population, especially since there is very little work in this
region apart from subsistence activities. These positive contributions notwithstanding, the
number of studies/projects originated by the Study Fund II was very much less than planned,
thus thLe positive impact is limited.
Institutional Impact
35.   The institutional impact of the project was generally limited. Although certain activities
such as training have been carried out, the objectives established at the outset have not been
attained. The strengthening of the decision-making process pertaining to planning and
investment even deteriorated, since the CIC, the unit for consultation and coordination of
investmient decisions between the Ministry of Planning and the other ministries, fell into disuse
as early as the project start-up stage. It is too soon to assess the impact of the training of two
hundred fifty-two (252) upper-level staff in project management, since most of the training
courses took place in the course of the 1997 fiscal year. The broad-based seminars on major
issues of national interest, in which five hundred and fifty (550) persons participated, led to the
definition of a national macroeconomic framework, and to the preparation of the PIP and
formulation of a privatization policy and legislation.
1. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
36.   The project design was appropriate, in that it should have enabled Rwanda to solve the
shortcomings and problems encountered in defining development objectives, preparing projects
eligible for external financing, and in the local project preparation capacity. The positive lessons
learned from implementation of the Studies Fund I project were incorporated in the design of the
project but unfortunately the circumstances changed and necessary adjustments did not come
quickly enough. This project failed to achieve its objectives primarily due to the administrative
and political instability during the period of implementation.
37.   None of the three main objectives of the project was attained satisfactorily. The
implementation was poor. The project was a victim of the political and administrative
instability, with one ministerial reshuffling after another, accompanied by a great deal of
turnover on the part of professional staff in the central government. Until 1996, no coordination
unit vvas in place to monitor progress and ensure fulfillment of the project objectives. The
coordination committee (CIC) required by the project, never functioned. The lack of counterpart
-15-



funds undermined the implementation of the project. The military conflict, and the political and
administrative instabilities tended to accentuate the institutional weaknesses and the budget
constraints. The preceding and similar TA project (Study Fund I) was implemented under stable
conditions and was judged by the ICR to have been successful. This would seem to indicate that
the instabilities in 1990-94, played a major role in the poor performance of the Study Fund II
project during this period.
38.   The lack of technical capacity to initiate and supervise project financed studies was a
problem, which only got worse as instabillity continued to unfold. The UNDP technical
assistance was expected to continue to provide support to the Government for executing the
project but the tri-partite (GOR/UNDP/World Bank) collaborative effort of preceding Study
Fund I could not be sustained due to the dLelay in getting Study Fund II underway as well as the
irregular Bank supervison. Besides in the unstable environment, UNDP faced pressures to use its
resources to support the Government. The commitment of the Government was weak as it was
preoccupied with more pressing security and survival matters. A full time coordination unit did
not exist and the management and the coordination of the project suffered from lack of
continuity, with the high turnover of ministers and civil servants. Some changes--the
appointment of a full-time coordinator, more supervision and dialogue on the project with the
Government, and emphasis on capacity building--were put in place on 1995/96.
39.   Fundamental changes occurred in the project environment, starting with the civil war in
1990, but the responses to these changes by the Bank and the Borrower were inadequate or late
to save the project. The changes in the environment required a reevaluation of project objectives,
design, implementation modalities and supervision by the Bank. Due to its multi-sectoral nature,
the project needed intensive supervision, r equiring different specialized experts, as well as active
involvement by Bank sector specialists. The ongoing conflict made it difficult to assemble the
necessary expertise as often as was necessary. Consequently, the supervision was below what
was planned in the President's Report during 1987 to 1993. A strong supervision effort, which
was instrumental to the success of the Study Fund I, according to its ICR, would perhaps have
enabled the Bank to identify the actual and potential difficulties, and to take corrective measures,
including canceling the project.
40.   The three main lessons from this project are: (i) the need to frequently evaluate the
appropriateness of the objectives, design and implementation arrangements of a technical
assistance project, especially in situations of political and administrative instabilities; (ii) the
need for strong supervision efforts, involving the use of specialized expertise, for broad
multisectoral TA projects, and (iii) should. the situation arise,, as in this case, that a project cannot
be adequately supervised, it should be cancelled.
-16-



RWANDA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECTORAL AND PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1796-RW)
PART II
EVALUATION OF THE FROM THE BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
-17-



RAPPORT D'EVALJATION DU PROJE
FONDS D'ETUDIES ET DIJE PRF-NVESTISSEMENT
CBEDI '1796 - RW)
PART I I
1. EVALUATION DU PROJET SELON LE GOUVERNEMENT
A.   Les objectifs du Projef
Ce projet avait trois objectifs:
* mieux d6finir les objectifs de developpement du Gouvemement et d6finir lea
strategiex appropri6es pour les accomplir;
* produire des etudes de projets susceptibles de recevoir un financement extrioeur;
* consolider les capacit6s locales par la formation et l'organisation des s6minaires.
B.   Evaluation de son execution
Ce projet a 6t6 sign6 le 24 juin 1987 et 6tait une suite d'un autre accord de cr6dit
d'assistance technique sign6 en 1982 z Fonds d'6tudes I ) qui avait connu un
succ6s appreciable. Les premiers d6caissements sur ce projet sont intervenus en
1989.
Pour faire une evaluation realiste de ce projet, il faut tenir compte du contexte
politique dans lequel le pays a 6volu6 durant la vie du Projet. Le Projet a 6te ex6cut6
d'abord entre la pbriode 1990-1994 ob le systbme de multipartisme au Rwanda 6tait
nM alors que le Projet avalt dt6 conqu dans la cadre d'un Gouvemement a Parti
unique et ob le systeme de planification btait centralist. Avec le gbnocide de 1994, il
ne fallait pas s'attendre a des r6sultats importants car il a fallu recommencer ce qui
avait dt6 fait auparavant.
Analysons objectif par objectif:
Ql4ectif n-1  definir les obJ£ctifs de d6yet dm
stratdgies pour les accomplir
Pour atteindre les objectifs du projet, le Gouvemement et le Banque s'etaient mis
d'accord sur les mecanismes et les organes institutionnels A mettre en place: Le
Minist6re du Plan devait coordonner l'6tablissement d'un programme de projets
d'6tudes d rbaliser et devait assurer le suivi de l'execution de ces 6tudes. Avant de
les soumettre A la Banque pour approbation, le Ministbre du Plan devalt les
soumettre au Comit6 Interministbriel de lCoordination pour examen. II 6taft prevu
6galement que chaque annee le Gouvernement et la Banque devait evaluer les
109
ŽV d 900 °N ZT:ST   86SNflf t              S8£9z-OSZ--00:131    19)l-31BIQNON-3fAONUB



structures de planification pour voir si elles donnent satisfaction et proposer des
ajustements.
Le preimier constat que l'on peut faire ici est que le premier objectif, qui reposait sur
le renforcement de la capacite institutlonnelle et les m6canIsmes qui permettaient de
verifier que oet objectif est atteint ou non et proposer des ameliorations a apporter,
n'a jamais 6.t atteint car le projet avait 1te concu dans un autre cadre et que
I'6valUation annuelle des structures de plan.fication n' a pas eu lieu. Les structures
de planificatlon dont d6pendait ce premier objectif se sont adaptees aux 6volutions
intervenus au Rwanda c.a.d dans le sens d'une decentralisation alors que le projet
avait 6t6 concu dans un systeme de planificatlon centralise.
II fault neanmoins signale que Ia situation actuelle a aboutl a une structure de
planification qui correspond aux objectifs du projet.
Q rja!i°;!: Production des Etudes de roj2lts suscentibles de recevoir un
rin  e men t extkrier
Le nombre d'etudes terminAes durant ia vie du Projet s'616ve A 21. La r6alisation de
cet objectif a &t6 partiellement atteint car la plupart de ces etudes etaient des etudes
sectorielles qui ont permis de mieux formuler les projets sp6cifiques et ont re4u un
financement exterieur. La plupart des etudes de faisabilite 61aborees sont en
ex6cution et ont un impact social et economique positif. On ne dirait pas que celas
Atait suffisant mals il faut reconnaTtre que l'instablit8 politique qu'a connu le pays eat
A 1'origine de cette faible performance. II faut egalement reconnaitre que les
programmes des Atudes de projet qui devalent Otre elabor6es trimestriellement n'ont
pas ete fait car l'organe de coordination (Comitb Interminist6rielle) n'avait pas dt6
mis en place.
Qbijgt1f n°3* Renforcement des Capacit6s Nationales par /a Formation et
Oranisation des srminairss
Pour renforcer les capacit6s de I'administration dens I'Aiaboration des etudes de
projelt, le projet devait financer un programme de formation en matiere de
pr6paration et d'evaluation des projets publics. II etait donc prevu que des
sbminaires allaient etre organises localement et < I'etranger.
Au cours de la vie du projet, il y a eu 8 cat6gories de seminalres qui ont ete
organises A savoir:
* 12 seminaires en gestion de projet et en gestion du programme des
investissements publics;
* un seminaire sur le cadre macro-6conomique;
* un saminaire sur le PIP1996-1998
* vn s6minaire sur la privatisation des entrepnses publiques
* un seminaire sur l'evaluation des strat6gies sectorielles;
* un seminaire sur les problemes fonciers au Rwanda
* un seminaire sur le systeme de base de donnees pour la gestion du PIP
(logiciel PIPEX);
19
8T d 900 °N, Zl:SI   86.Nnr tZ               S829)-OSZ-00:131    -19-31UIQN0W-3A0NUE



* Divers seminalres A 1'ext6rieur du pays.
Si on evalue les resultats de cot objectif, il y a lieu de reconnaltre que les s6minalres
qui ont 6te organis6s restent insuffisants vu encore la faible capacit6 des cadres de
I'administration dens l'Ataboration des 6tudes de projet. Cola resulteralt aussi de la
qualit6 des s6mineires organis6s et de la mobilit des cadres A leur postes. 11 est
regrettable que le projet a AtA cl6tur6 au moment ou la formation des cadres etait
surtout nbcessaire car la plupart des cadresi pr6sents dans is plupart des ministAres
n'ont aucune experience en matiere d'41aboratlon des projets et qu'un certain
nombre de besoins en Ia matiere 6taient encore exprim6s.
C.   Conclusion
Le Projet Fonds d'Etudes Sectorielles et de Pre-Investissement n'a pas pleinement
rempli ses objectifs pour plusieurs raisons b savoir:
* I'instabilite politique qu'a connu le pays durant la vie du Projet;
* Ie changement des structures de planification entre la periode de sa
conception et la periode de son ex6cution (contexte difflrent);
* I'absence de planificatlon et de suivi r6guller des activit6s du projet;
- les m6canismes de d6calssements des fonds par la Banque qui sont
lourds, raison pour laquelle il y a e'u un reliquat sur le projet.
20
61-d 900ON £T:ST   86.Nnr tz                S829Z-OS,S-00:13i    19)-31UIUNOW-3AoNtj



PART II
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
(VO           (V)           (V)            (0)
Macro Policies                 0             B              0              a
Sector Policies                              a O                           03
Financial Objectives           0             O 3            3      0
Institutional Development      a             0              B              0
Physical Objectives            O             O              0              B
Poverty Reduction              0             O              B              0
Gender Issues                                0                             03
Other Social Objectives        0             0              B              0
Environmental Objectives       0                                           B
Public Sector Management       0      0      a                             0
Private Sector                 0      0      o                             0
Development
Other (specify)                0             °              0 
B. Proiect Sustainability        Likely              Unlikely             Uncertain
(V)                 (0)                    (11)
a                     0                     0
C.        Bank Performance        Highy
satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
(if"(0)                                    (/)
Identification                    0                     0B                    0
Preparation Assistance            0                     B                     0
Appraisal                    -    0                     B                     0
Supervision                       0                     0                     B
-21-



D. Borrower Performance                Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
(v)          (v)          (1)
Preparation                              O            Z            O
Implementation                           0            0            0
Covenant Compliance                      03 OE
Operation (if applicable)                0            0            0
iglhly                                 Highly
E.        Assessment of        satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
Outcome                      (1           (v)           (1)            (v')
-22-



Table 2. Related Bank Credits
Title of the Credit   Objective      Approval Year       Status     |       Comments
Preceding
Operations
1565-RW         To assist the GOR in   March 1985    Effectiveness:    This credit in the amount of
Public Sector    improving the                      1/10/86         US$4.8 million experienced
Management       economic policy                    Closing date    slow disbursement rates and
making and                        6/30/92          was finally rated
strengthening the                                  unsatisfactory. The project
Ministry of Finance                                needed intensive supervision
with specialized expertise.
1217-RW         To improve the quality March 1982    Effectiveness:    This credit of SDR4.3 million
Study Fund I     of projects for external          November 1982   was implemented
financing and                     Closing Date:    satisfactorily, regarded as a
strengthen local                  June 30, 1989    model for such study funds in
project preparation                                other countries and a blueprint
capacities and                                     for Bank-UNDP cooperation
coordination.
Following
Operations
2113-RW          Technical Assistance  March 1990    Effectiveness  The technical work that was
Public Enterprise  to the Government to             2/26/91         done on this project ultimately
Reform           carry out its public               Closing date    contributed little to the reform
enterprise reform                                  of public enterprises because
program                                            of the interruption of the
genocide and civil war of
1994.
2678-RW          Part of an international January 1995   Effectiveness:    The project financed
Emergency        effort to assist the               Augusit 1995    consulting services for the
Recovery Credit   GOR to restore its                Closing date    ministries of plan and finance
(TA Component)  operational following               9/30/97         and the central bank to help
the destruction of the                             reinstate the budget, restore
genocide and civil war.                            monetary management and
revive the financial sector.
The project was satisfactorily
implemented.
-23-



Table 3
Project Timetable
Item                Scheduled Date       Revised Date         Actual Date
Identification                                            May 1985
Preparation       _                 _                     October-April 1986
Appraisal mission                _                        May 1986
Negotiations                      _                       March 1987
Board approval    May 1986                   _            May 1987
Signing date      March 1987                 _            June 24,1987
Effectiveness date                                        August 18,1988
Completion date    March 30, 1994   _
Closing date     June 30, 1994      December 31, 1996,    October 31,1997
June 30, 1997
Last disbursement  December 1994    December 1996,        February 1998
_ June 30,1997
Table 4
Disbursements (in millions of cumulative SDRs)
Year             Planned (1)          Actual (2)      (2)/(l) as a percent
1988                1.60                0.00                 0.0
1989                2.90                0.00                 0.0
1990                4.00                0.44                 11.0
1991                4.80                0.83                 17.3
1992                5.40                1.13                20.9
1993                5.80                1.71                29.5
1994                5.90                1.76                29.8
1995                5.90                1.81                30.7
1996                5.90                2.65                44.9
1997                5.90                2.98 2              67.4
1998                5.90                3.99                67.7
2     In July 1997, the sum of SDR 1,300,000 was canceled.
-24-



Table 5
Project Cost by Local/Foreign3
(in thousands of US$)
Item                            Local4            Foreign             Total
Planned      Actual Planned    Actual Planned     Actual
Advisors                      0.0        0.0    320.0  1,367.0    320.0   1367.0
Studies                    1079.0      440.0   6765.0   4399.0   7844.0   4839.0
Training and seminars       100.0       40.0    150.0    894.0    250.0    934.0
Documentation Center          10.0       0.0     50.0      96.0     60.0      96.0
Vehicles & Equipment          10.0      40.0      80.0     68.0     90.0    108.0
Miscellaneous costs           2.0        0.0     25.0      24.0     27.0      24.0
Total            1201.0      520.0   7390.0    6848    8591.0   7388.0
Table 6
Project rmancing by source
(in thousands of US$)
Item                           UNDP                IDA               Govern.
Planned     Actual Planned   Actual Planned        Actual
Advisors                    320.0    1367.0        0.0    0.0         0.0       0.0
Studies                       0.0        0.0    6765.0  4399.0    1079.0    440.0
Training & Seminars           0.0      103.0     150.0  791.0       100.0      40.0
Documentation Center          0.0       96.0      80.0    0.0        10.0       0.0
Vehicles & Equipment         10.0        0.0      50.0   68.0        10.0      40.0
Miscellaneous costs          11.0       24.0      14.0    0.0         2.0       0.0
Total                       341.0    1590.0    7049.0   5258      1201.0      520.0
3     External contributions from UNDP and IDA
4     The value of the counterpart funds is computed on the basis of the % which the government is expected to
provide for each item in comparison with the IDA disbursement
-25-



Table 7
Studies/Activities Financed
Study                                                                 Type Project  cost
(106FRW)5
1. Urban Affairs and Water
24.37
Master plan on urban transportation                            Master plan        344.23
PVK Plan for disposal of rain water and wastewater             Master plan         32.69
Rehabilitation of water supply systems in rural areas           Feasibility        18.41
Water supply infrastructure component, health and population    Feasibility
project .                                                                     24.53
PVK solid waste treatment                                       Feasibility        83.71
PVK water supply projected for the year 20006                  Master plan         38.94
Improvement of water distribution system in ButaLre             Feasibility         5.07
Redevelopment of squatter settlements                           Feasibility
2. Energy
Electricity plan for Rwanda                                    Master plan        123.04
Studies for the Nyabarongo-Rusumo-Akanyaru  hydroelectric       Feasibility       101.09
power plants
3. Transportation & Communication
Study of the Nyabugogo bus station                              Feasibility         3.69
Institutional development of postal service and telecommunications  Feasibility     3.76
4. Agriculture, livestock, fishing, and forestry
Timber development in the Zaire-Nile Crest                      Feasibility        21.51
Sectoral coffee study                                           Feasibility         6.64
Fishing and stocking the lakes                                  Feasibility         5.02
Sectoral livestock study                                        Feasibility         0.76
Master plan for development of the Nyabarongo valley           Master plan          5.05
5. Macroeconomic policy
Preparation, follow-up, and updating of macroeconomic policy                       11.98
Evaluation of sectoral strategies                                                  25.52
Preparation of an integrated survey of household living conditions                102.06
Technical assistance contract for gathering data and preparation of
the 1996 PIP                                                                  13.91
Social and health aspects of the environment                                        4.12
Support for investment management.                                                  11.98
Data taken from various audit reports. Costs are historical.
6     Kanzenze well and Nyabarongo groundwater.
-215-



Table 8
LIST OF PLANNED STUDIES
(as proposed by the President's Report)
Agricultural Sector
- Management of agricultural industries*
- Sectoral study on coffee*
- Leather and animal skins*
- Raising dairy cattle and dairy production**
- Pyrethrum**
- Essential oils**
- Production of edible oils* *
Energy Sector
- Methane gas in Kivu Lake**
- Peat
- Energy needs of the Mashyuza Cement Works**
- Energy savings*
Education Sector
- National training center*
Urban Sector
- Construction**
- Market improvement**
Industrial Sector
- Textiles**
- Production of cardboard* *
Other Studies
- Rehalbilitation of the public enterprise "Usine de papier du Rwanda" [Rwanda Paper
Factory]***
- Rehabilitation of the public enterprise "SONAFRUITS"***
- Sectoral study of the environment*7
7     "'     Sectoral study
Pre-investment study
Study on rehabilitation of public enterprises
-27-



Table 9
Training and Seininars Financed!
No   Categories                                        Number of Number Year
days        of
participa
nts
Training sessions on project management and on      156        202       1997
management of the public investment program
(12 sessions of 13 days each)                           L
Seminars and Workshops                          _
1.    1996-98 PIP and 1997-1999                             6         120    1995/1997
2.    Macroeconomic policy                                  2         30        1996
3.    Privatization of state-owned enterprises              3         78        1996
4.    Evaluation of sectoral strategies                     2         60        1996
6     Land-holding problems in post-war Rwanda              3         115       1996
7.    Sector Strategy for water and sanitation                                  1997
8.    Seminar on the data base system (PIPEX) for the       3         45        1996
management of PIP
Participation in various seminars organized                     13       1992
abroad                                           _11                    1996/97
8     These seminars were organized from 1996 to the close of the project.
-28.-



Table 10
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stages of Produce Cycle           Actual                   Actual
Staffweeks               US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal           24.2                     41.0
Appraisal                          13.0                     25.5
Negotiations through Board         4.0                      7.8
approval
Supervision                        53.2                    105.4
Completion                         6.5                      14.1
Total                             101.0                     193.8
-29-



Table 11:
Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/ Year    Number of         Specialized Staff Skills
Cycle                               Persons          Represented
From Appraisal to    8/94 - 10/94   14               a,b,d, e
Board
Supervision 1       03/89           2                b,d
Supervision 2        11/89          1                b
Supervision 3       7/91            1                b
Supervision 4       6/92            1                b
Supervision 5       7/93            1                b
Supervision 6       3/95            1                d
Supervision 7       11/95           3                b
Supervision 8       5/96            2                b
Supervision 9       2/97            4                b,a,e
Supervision 10      5/97            3                a,b,c
ICR                 3/98            3                b,c
Key to Staff Skills
a = Financial Analyst
b = Economist and Principal Economist
c = Public Sector Mgt. Spslt
d=Country Officer
e=Operations Analyst
Note: Number of Persons refers to persons participated in the different missions; therefore, if one participates in
three missions during preparation to appraisal that is considered as three persons.
Note: Other sectoral staff contributed to the supervision of the project, in context of their other project activities
where there are studies being financed by The Studies Fund. For instance, a water supply study funded by the Study
Fund 1I would be supervised by the water project taslk manager as part of the preparation of a water project. Thus
the resources would not be reflected in the resource use of the Study Fund.
-30-



MAP SECTION



2e30'                                          2900O'                                          29P30'                                          3&00'                                            3fO
- ito
UGANDA
RWAN DA
DEM. REP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(cMTMUUO
*NATIONAL CAPITALOF                                                          NG
(0    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                                   YR130
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
-   MAIN ROADS                                                                                                         W~TV
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  6/           Gs         U           GS*AI~~
MURVUM
F,~~Ow-,C,  Gi               i ~~Lake
PW".~~~~~~~~~~~87,2   G,KI!U'0                                           A A
Gitaram$K                                                                                 Kibungct
KENYA       A                                                pT                                 Lake~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ak
2~~30' ~                                                                                                                                                                            ve'roooh                                      Ot
BU RU N DI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-
Cyang
DE              TANZANIA                                                                                                                S1Y
REte
CONG  e~~ gentLe       OCEAN   ~~ DEM. REP                                                                                                                                                                         This nie wosfpar.~d by the Map        w3
ITT                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS  0   5   1Q  15  20  25  30  35  40  A5M 0 Th  darieDecolrse  h...iain
OFCONGO    ~ ~    ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ,I                                                                     andeanyeother iefor-seon shows on
c                                                                                                                                                                   this Wp do n. 'i.ply, an th. part of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~heprto
MZ BIUE                                                                                                                                MILES  0      5      1 0    1 5    20      235    3        The Wrld,~ Bk Group, esy jodg-eeat
Lake Mole '                                                                                                                                          as the Ieoel Metes of asy territorpar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onth  lga s.ts f nyteit   fra
'0                                                                                                                                                                       soy eedorseeieet or occeptoece at each~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay ndrsmetoracep   n  
290                                            290                                             3900'                                            bPo      oendories.                           1



