Doum Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
Ce  ~~~~Le
Report No. P-4442-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 5.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
SECTORAL AND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
April 23, 1987
IThis document has a restricted distribution and mkay bc used by recipients only in the performance l
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY EgUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rwanda Franc (RWF)
US$ 1.00       -  RWF 89.90 (average first 8 months 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)              0 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 square miles
1 square meter (m2)        =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)         =  1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton)         =  2,204 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Rwanda : January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADETEF              Association for the Development of Technical Exchange in
Economics and Finance
BNR                 National Bank of Rwanda
BUNEP               National Bank for the Study of Projects
CEM                 Country Economic Memorandum
CIC                 Interministerial Coordinating Committee
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
MINIFINECO          Ministry of Finance and Economy
MINIPLAN            Planning Ministry
MINIPRISEC          Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
NGO                 Non-Government Organization
PE                  Public Enterprise
PEP                 Public Expediture Program
PIP                 Public Investment Program
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
SOMIRWA            Mining Corporation of Rwanda
TA                  Technical Assistance
UN                  United Nations
UNDP                United Nations Development Program



FOR oMCUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
Sectoral and Preinvestment Studles Project
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Rwanda
Implementing
Agency:       Ministry of Planning
IDA Credit
amount:       SDR 5.9 million (US$ 7.4 million)
Term:         Standard IDA Terms
Proiect
Description:  The project consists of assistance to:
a)   carry out the identification, preparation and execution
of sectoral and preinvestment studies;
b)   train selected staff in (i) the preparation,
implementation and monitoring of a rolling Public
Investment Program; and (ii) project preparation and
appraisal;
c)   complete installation of a Documentation Center; and
d)   provide logistical support related to the above.
Benefits:     The project would result in preparation of sector strategies,
production of a portfolio of well prepared projects ready for
submission to financing sources and avoidance of unviable
investments. More importantly, through its formal training
component reinforced by systematic on-the-job training, the
project would improve local capabilities for preparation and
appraisal of investment projects and for investment
programming so that after project completion, only highly
specialized short term expertise would oceLsionally be
required. The mechanisms set up to prepare new projects
under the Credit would help strengthen the institutions
involved across Government, better equip the Ministry of
Planning to perform its coordinating functions, and should
improve, in the long run, the institutional framework for
overall investment programming. This would give Rwanda the
capacity and technical competence necessary to translate its
planned priorities into coherent investment programs.
Risks:        There are risks that some of these benefits will not fully
materialize if the work of the General Directorate of
Planning and the General Directorate of Projects within the
Ministry of Planning is not well coordinated. These risks
were minimized through provision of assistance to the
Programs Directorate, which should help improve its specific
This document has a restcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclmsd without World Bank authorization.



contribution to the planning and programming process, and
through strengthening of the procedures for handling
preinvestment studies, which should provide a reasonable
framework for integrating the work of the two Directorates.
Moreover, these risks are expected to diminish over the life
of the project as procedures are further tested, modified and
accepted.
Estimated Costl
(in US$ thousands)
Local           Foreign       TOTAL
a. Preinvestment Studies                1,079.0           6,765.0     7,844.0
b. Training                               100.0             150.0        250.0
c. Documentation Center                    10.0              40.0        50.0
d. Vehicles and Equipment                  10.0              80.0        90.0
TOTAL BASE COST         1,199.0          7,035.0      8,234.0
e. Contingencies
Of Which:  Physical                    2.0              14.0        16.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST        1,201.0          7,049.0      8,250.0
(15Z)           (85Z)       (100%)
Financing Plan                Local        Foreign         Total
(in USS thousands)
Government                     854.0                         854.0      (10%)
IDA                            347.0        7,049.0        7,396.0      (90%)
Total                        1,201.0        7,049.0        8,250.0    (100%)
(15%)         (85%)          (100%)
Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IDA FY                  1988     1989     1990    1991      1992     1993    1994
Annual                   2.0      1.5       1.5     1.0      0.8      0.5      0.1
Cumulative               2.0      3.5      5.0      6.0      6.8      7.3      7.4
Rate of Return: NIA
Staff Appraisal Report: No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared for this project.
11 All items would be exempt from import duties and local taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A SECTORAL AND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
1.   .1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDR 5.9
million (US$ 7.4 million) on standard IDA terms to help improve Rwanda's
preinvestment capabilities.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.    A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 6191-RW) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on November 21, 1986. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
A. Background
3.    Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an annual
population growth rate of 3.5 percent (ranking among the highest in
Africa), a population density (in terms of arable land) of up to 500 per
square km in some regions (ranking among the highest in the world), hilly
terrain and high average altitude, a landlocked position, lack of natural
resources (including a serious shortage of arable land), underdeveloped
physical and institutional infrastructure, and a very low level of
development as measured by a variety of social as well as economic
indicators. These indicators include a per capita income of about US$ 270
(19B4), among the lowest in the world; an average life expectancy of 47
years; and an adult literacy rate of 37 percent.
4.    The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports (coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, cinchona), which provide 75 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and the growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and the lack of
raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills, and skilled
manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel,
petroleum products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually
every modern consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by high
transportation costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to
the sea ports of Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam.



-2-
5.    Despite these constraints, Rwanda has wade a creditable effort toward
economic and social development. During the 1976-80 period, the country
managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to make important advances not
only in agriculture but in other fields such &A education, health, water
supply, and small-scale industry. It succeeded in building basic transport
and communication infrastructure, and set in place a state administrative
apparatus serious about development. These achievements reflect the
Government's commitment to economic and social progress, as well as its
prudent fiscal, balance of payments and debt management policies. At the
same time, Rwanda has been able to attract substantial volumes of external
aid from a great diversity of sources, confirming donor perceptions that
Government is indeed development-oriented and is pursuing generally
appropriate objectives. The Government's efforts during this period were
significantly helped by favorable weather conditions and the coffee boom of
the late 1970's.
6.    Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development efforts in
Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problems which continue to
compromise development prospects: population growth, increasingly at odds
with land availability, an undiversified economic structure, Government's
limited capacity to provide social services, and the economy's inability to
generate jobs either outside or within the rural sector. Though foodcrop
output has, at least, kept pace with population growth, it has apparently
done so at a cost to the land's long-term fertility. Agricultural land use
in Rwanda has reached a point where there is little fallow or grazing area
left. The rapidly growing population has resulted in serious deforestation,
accompanying erosion, and has required the cultivation of marginal lands
with a fragile ecology. Concomitant with these adverse trends has been a
deterioration of nutritional standards induced by the shift to traditional
high-yield, high-calorie, but low-protein crops. The limited success of
Government's efforts has been largely due to the country's structural
constraints (among them the critical population problem), institutional
weaknesses (stemming largely from a shortage of skilled personnel), and an
insufficiency of domestic financial resources. At the same time, the
shortage of skilled personnel, fragmentation of institutional
responsibilities, and relatively poor interagency coordination limited the
country's capacity to absorb external resources.
7.    The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these problems.
The Government established in 19B1 the National Population Office in order
to formulate a national population policy and monitor developments. IDA-
assisted Family Health Project is a full-scale effort to assist the
Government to respond to its pressing population realities. To address the
problem of lack of education and training, the Government introduced an
education reform in 1979 which -- after subsequent adjustment -- was
responsive to the country's needs, but whose implementation has been
hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers. In the
agricultural sector, the Government has undertaken a comprehensive
evaluation of research efforts to date. This has now been translated into
a detailed action program through an IDA assisted Agriculture Research
Project.



-3-
B.    A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic performance can
only be tentative, as the national account statistics have serious
shortcomings. These estimates suggest that, compared to the period of
1978-1980, during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent annually, economic
growth in Rwanda slowed down during 1983-1984 -- GDP grew on average by
about 1 percent p.a. -- mainly on account of a downswing in tertiary sector
activities, and the sluggish performance of food crop production following
the 1984 drought. Notwithstanding this domestic recession, the
manufacturing sector expanded its productive capacity and improved its
capacity utilization due, in part, to the import restrictions which limited
foreign competition. Mining continued the decline that started in 1980 due
to persistent financial and management problems of the major mixed-
ownership company (SOMIRWA), which ceased its operations in late 1985.
However, 1985 witnessed high growth after the economic slump of the
preceding 3 years, mainly on account of an increase in agricultural
production. Preliminary data for 1986 also indicate a buoyant year due to
an increase in world coffee demand and prices.
9.    Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure, as the volume
of imports continued to expand at a time when export earnings were
declining. Since 1981, the total value of exports has been consistently
below their 1977-80 levels, reflecting the decline in world coffee prices
rather than a shortfall in export volume. The terms of trade deteriorated
by about 24 percent between 1979 and 1984. In an attempt to arrest the
deterioration of the balance of payments, the Government adopted --
beginning in 1983 -- what they expected would be temporary measures,
including licensing, prior deposit import requirements and increased import
tariffs. The restrictions aimed mainly at curtailing imports of non-
essential consumer goods as well as those of locally-produced commodities.
The Rwandese authorities also shifted the peg of the kwandese franc (in
September 1983) from the US dollar to the SDR, entailing a 5.2 percent
depreciation vis-a-vis the US dollar. These measures, coupled with some
improvement in the terms of trade in 1984 and 1985 (with respect to the
1981-1983 period) helped to reduce the current account deficit to about 9
percent of GDP both in 1984 and in 1985 as compared to 12 and 11 percent,
respectively, in 1982 and 1983. Due to the coffee "boom" in much of 1986,
the current account deficit is expected to decline further to about 72 of
GDP.
10.   On the budgetary side, the authorities did not realize that the high
level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a temporary phenomenon
not justifying a permanent increa!;e in expenditures. As a result, the
sharp decline in revenues from coffee export taxes beginning in 1981,
together with increases in current outlays (in order to achieve the social
objectives of the Plan), resulted in an overall budgetary deficit
equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP in both 1982 and 1983 (as compared to
a surplus of 0.9 percent in 1980.) Concern over the worsening budgetary
situation led Government to introduce corrective fiscal measures. The
growth of public sector employment was held under 0.5 percent -- the
education sector was exempted in order to achieve the revised targets of
the 1979 Education Reform. This represented a major break from
Government's past policy of practically "guaranteeing" employment to every
secondary-school graduate. Large reductions were also decided in net
transfers to parastatals. Thanks to the austerity measures and increased



-4-
revenues from taxes on international trade both in 1984 and 1985, the
Government has been successful in reducing the budgetary deficit to about 1
percent of GDP. The Government is likely to experience a small budgetary
surplus in 1986 mainly because of the increase in world coffee prices.
11.   Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary and
credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through
neighboring countries, high international transport costs, and increased
prices of imports and seasonal fluctuations in the price of domestic
foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum during 1977-82, it
peaked at 12.6 percent in 1982, reflecting mainly the substantial increases
in electricity and water tariffs and educational fees. In 1983 and 1984
inflation was down to 6.6 and 5.4 percent, respectively. In 1985,
inflation declined further to less than 2 percent.
12.   Rwanda has been one of the most favored beneficiaries of foreign aid
in recent years. Per capita disbursements of net official development
assistance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than the average for
Sub-Sahara Africa. During the period 1981-85, grants comprised about 75
percent of total external aid flows, and were provided mainly by Belgium,
the Federal Republic of Germany, and France. In view of its level of
development, however, Rwanda will need external assistance for a long time
to come. While the world coffee price increase in 1986 has already
provided temporary balance-of-payments relief, this is unlikely to continue
beyond 1987. Foreign assistance would have to continue at least at the
current level, given population growth and export constraints.
13. Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is relatively
small, estimated at US$304 million at end-1985, equivalent to about 16
percent of GD?. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted on highly
concessionary terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on average
during the 1972-84 period. Due to the concessionary nature of these loans,
the debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt are relatively low:
about 8 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1985. Hence,
there remains scope for further borrowing. However, given the poverty of
the country, its overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its long-
term unfavorable terms of trade prospects, external funds should continue
to be provided in the form of grants or loans at highly concessionary
terms, and include a high proportion of local cost financing and non-
project assistance.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
14.   Bank Group assistance to Rwanda started in 1970, and was initially
focused on the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of
agricultural production. As of September 20, 1986, Rwanda has received
twenty-nine IDA credits totalling US$ 304.6 million: eight for agriculture
(34 percent); six for roads (30 percent); four for DFC's (10 percent); two
for power (9 percent); two for education (6 percent); one for water supply
(5 percent); two for technical assistance (4 percent); and one for
telecommunications (3 percent). In addition, Rwanda has also received a



-5-
Special African Facility Credit of US$15.0 million for the Sixth Highway
project. There have been no Bank loans. Three IFC investments (one of
US$535,000 for a tea factory; a second of US$226,000 with contingent equity
commitment of up to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory; a third of
US$249,000 also to expand the tea factory) were signed in 1976, 1980 and
1985, respectively. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1986.
15.   In fiscal years 1982-85, disbursements for Rwanda totalled LUS$49.1
million, compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. The annual
disbursement rate increased steadily over this period, to reach about 25
percent in FY85 which is above the average for countries of the Eastern and
Southern Africa Region. There are no problem projects in Rwanda.
Country Assistance Strategy
16.   The Bank Group lending has been based on a country strategy which has
emphasized: (i) agriculture and rural development, the main objective
being to increase food production as well as export crops, while
maintaining soil fertility; (ii) human resources development, focusing on
support to basic education and skills training to improve agricultural
productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue, and, more recently, on family planning programs per se;
(iii) infrastructure development, particularly roads, to reduce the
country's isolation and to provide incentives to further intensification of
agriculture as well as increased specialization and diversification through
better marketing; (iv) energy, to lessen the country's demand for fuel
imports; and (v) development of small and medium-size enterprises in
manufacturing and other sectors.
17.   One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the shortage
of administrative and technicalimanagerial capacity. This affects all
sectors and inhibits project preparation and implementation. Institutional
and human resource development through intensive technical assistance and
on-the-job training of Rwandes-e staff have, therefore, been a salient
feature of the Bank Group program for Rwanda, both under individual
projects in various sectors, and through free-standing technical assistance
projects (a second Credit 1565-RW became effective January 10, 1986).
These projects have helped strengthen inter-ministerial coordination,
provided training to staff in the studies units of concerned agencies, and
contributed to improve the preparation of the next five-year plan (1987-
1991).
18.   The Bank Group program has been pursued in a climate of good
relations with the Government. In all nine sectors in which we are active,
there exists a general willingness to take action where required. In
agriculture, improved sector management as well as more rigorous project
planning and financial controls have been attained, with a shift away from
integrated rural development schemes towards more directly productive
projects and the strengthening of institutional linkages between central
Government and local levels. In the highway sector, our active dialogue
with the Ministry of Public Works and Energy is now focusing on the ways to



-6-
reduce reliance upon expatriate expertise and develop a national road
maintenance capacity. In industrial development, we have gained
Government's commitment to promote small-scale enterprises while starting
to focus as well on rehabilitation and restructuring needs of some public
enterprises. In the education sector, we had difficulties due to two
misprocurements (some six years ago) and an overly ambitious education
reform proposal at the primary level. However, a positive dialogue with the
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINIPRISEC) has emerged in the
past three years; the Ministry has since adopted a less costly and lengthy
primary cycle. A third education project was approved last spring (Cr.
1683-RW). On population, our initially cautious approach to Government has
developed into cooperative efforts to promote suitable family health and
planning programs (Cr. 1679-RW signed in May 1986).
19.   The Bank Group strategy continues to center on the five sectors
mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agriculture and
population. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promoting
intensification by developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural
adaptive research and extension capabilities; and (ii) reinforcing the key
sector institutions -- the Rwandese Research Institute (ISAR) and the
Ministry of Agriculture.
20.   In addition, our dialogue with the Government has also had a macro- e
conomic dimension and Rwandese authorities have recently received very
positively the grey cover Economic Memorandum recommendations.
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. General
21.   Overall economic management in Rwanda has generally been sound and
prudent. There are nevertheless a number of important areas in which
improvements in macroeconomic management will be necessary if Rwanda is to
return to the healthier growth path which characterized its development
until the early 1980s. Some of these issues have been identified by the
Government in its 1985 Economic Recovery Program. Particular areas of
reform, on which the Government has discussed World Bank and other donor
assistance, include: (i) overall restructuring of the industrial sector;
(ii) support for rehabilitation of the mining sector; and (iii) technical
assistance in the preparation of a rolling public investment programming
system, and its perioO..c updating; (iv) strengthening of the agricultural
services; and (v) management of Public Enterprises (PEs) in the energy,
water supply, transport, education, telecommunications and agricultural
sectors. These subjects, all related to issues of medium and long-term
economic management, have been addressed in recent Bank sector reports, the
1986 Economic Memorandum, and are also part of the continuing dialogue
between the Government and the Bank. Government has responded positively
to the Bank's advice and is addressing these issues within the framework of
several Bank-financed projects, UNDP-financed studies, and with support
from bilateral donors.



-7-
22.   Bank assistance strategy to Rwanda aims at supporting continued
economic growth by: improving the country's ability to modify macro-
economic policies in response to changes in external conditions;
improvements in domestic resource mobilization; development of appropriate
public expenditure programs; and promoting the financial autonomy of
parnstatals and mixed enterprises while increasing their accountability.
23.   To achieve these goals, it is necessary to strengthen the
institutions in charge of implementing the economic Development Plan and,
more generally, to improve economic and financial management capabilities
and processes. A first Technical Assistance project (Credit 1217-RW), now
almost completed, launched the improvement strategy by providing Technical
Assistance to the Ministry of Planning and setting up a preinvestment
approval and financing mechanism. A second Technical Assistance project
(Credit 1565-RW), approved in March 1985, addressed the needs for
structural and staffing improvements in the Ministry of Finance.
24.   Regarding macro economic management, one of the principal
recommendations of the World Bank Economic Report (1986) was that the
Government give priority to preparing a rolling Public Investment Program
(PIP) covering a three-year period. The CEM also underlined the urgent
need for an Intensive effort through coordination between the Planning and
Finance Ministries to develop a Public Expenditure Program (PEP). This is
further discussed in Section D below.
B. Available Technical Assistance for Rwanda
25. Rwanda is receiving substantial Technical Assistance (TA) from both
bilateral and multilateral sources. It was estimated that, in 1985, such
assistance amounted to about USS 70 million, including about US$ 16.0
million for Economic Management, mostly financed by the BankIUNDP. In
addition to the assistance funded by bilateral donors (mostly Belgium,
U.S.A., Canada, Germany, Switzerland, France and China), NGO's play an
important role in Rwanda's development.
26.   There is a particularly close collaboration and complementarity
between UNDP and IDA across sectors of lending in Rwanda: in many cases
IDA-financed projects are complemented by UNDP-financed technical
assistance as a result of Government policy to obtain grant assistance
wherever possible.
C. Previous IDA Technical Assistance
First and Second Technical Assistance Projects
27. When IDA made its first technical assistance credit in 1982, one of
the major constraints on Rwanda's development was the shortage of a
national technical and managerial capacity. This affected all sectors and
inhibited project preparation and implementation. Activities financed
under the first technical assistance project (Credit 1217-RW of US$ 5.0
million granted in April 1982) covered project preparation and related
staff training. The second technical assistance project (Credit 1565-RW,
of US$ 4.8 million granted in May 1985) covered a broad range of needs,
primarily related to public finance, including training of Ministry of



Finance staff, budgeting systems, financial managoment of Public
Enterprises and strengthening of Goverrnment capabilities for economic
policy making. By responding to pressing neods, Bank Group-financed
technical assistance (along with UNDP-financed, Bank executed technical
assistance) has proven useful. The experience gained under the
Association's first credit is extensively reviewed below in view of Its
special relevance to the proposed project.
28. Assistance to the Planning Ministry. The objectives of the first IDA
Technical Assistance project (and of the parallel UNDP TA "Study Fund"
project, RWA/80O009, for which the Bank is Executing Agency) were to
increase the number and improve the quality of projr;ts submitted for
outside financing; to strengthen local project preparation capabilities;
and to establish better coordination between technical ministries and
MINIPLAN. Together the projects consisted of:
a) the financing of prefeasibility, feasibility, and detailed
engineering studies;
b) training seminars in Rwanda on project preparation and
implementation; and
c) the services of four UNDP-financed long term advisors: (a) a
project economist assigned to MINIPLAN primarily to provide
assistance for all activities related to preinvestment
financing; (b) a financial analyst assigned to the National
Studies Bureau (BUNEP) to help it carry out studies financed
under the project and/or by other donors; (c) an investment
programming specialist; and (d) a documentalist assigned to
MINIPLAN, to help organize and put into operation the
Documentation Center.
29.   A Tripartite (Government/UNDP/Bank) evaluation of the performance of
the UNDP-financed TA in August 1985, concluded that it had helped the
Ministry of Planning initiate a new process for selecting and preparing new
projects through better coordination with the line ministries. At the same
time, the evaluation observed that IDA-financing of preinvestment studies
under the first TA project had increased the country's absorptive capacity,
qualitatively and quantitatively, by identifying projects and producing 27
studiesl which otherwise might not have been proposed for external
financing (see Annex VI). At the present time, 23 of the studies carried
out have confirmed or probable external financing for the subsequent
project execution phase. IDA is the likely source of financing in eight
such cases. Four studies demonstrated that proposed investments were not
feasible and thus saved Government from wasting resources in their
financing.
1/ The sectoral distribution of these studies is as follows: Transportation
(6), Industry (4), Agriculture (5), Urban and Water (6), Telecommunica-
tions (2), Eleciricity (3) and Financial (1).



-9-
30. This joint assistance also helped to create the first
Interministerial Advisory Committee for Planning (C.I.C.). The Committee,
essentially composed of national staff, has performed its tasks very well
and demonstrated the value of effective coordination at both the working
and the policy making levels. The Planning Committee has served as a model
for the other six committees subsequently established by Government for
improving coordination in economic management (see para. 36).
31.   A number of factors have contributed to the success of the IDA-
financed Project: (i) sound administrative management of the preinvestment
mechanism by MINIPLAN; (ii) an open consultative process involving the
participation of the line ministries concerned with the studies as well as
MINIPLAN staff (see para. 36); (iii) organization of well-targeted,
practical training seminars on various aspects of planning; (iv) close IDA
supervision and a collaborative problem-solving approach with Government --
both from headquarters staff and the Bank's Resident Representative in the
field; and (v) a positive external environment exemplified by the emergence
of an effective field-level coordination process among external aid
agencies and Government, under the leadership of UNDP and the Bank.
The National Studies Bureau (BUNEP)2
32. At the Government's request and in order to strengthen local
capabilities to prepare and monitor projects, BUNEP was to carry out
studies financed under the first IDA credit. After BUNEP's technical and
financial proposals to MINIPLAN and the technical ministry concerned were
accepted by the CIC and approved by IDA, BUNEP was given the responsibility
to conduct the study. BUNEP executed four studies under this arrangement,
but its performance was mixed. This is due to staffing weaknesses (e.g.,
lack of financial expertise) and poor management. IDA has advised the
Minister of Planning to carry out a financial and management audit of BUNEP
(which is still to be done) and to request BUNEP to implement the following
recommendations: (i) set up a new management structure; (ii) use the
critical path method to manage studies being carried out; (iii) enforce
completion of timesheets by its staff; (iv) work out a staff training plan;
(v) prepare a periodic work program; and (vi) introduce a cost accounting
system. Under the proposed credit, and in addition to the above efforts to
be made by Government to develop their capabilities, Rwandese consulting
firms including BUNEP will continue, in accordance with the IDA guidelines
on the selection of consultants, to be included in the short lists in cases
where they have the required qualifications.
33. Assistance to the Ministry of Finance. Following Bank and IMF studies
of the fiscal and budgetary systems, and a Government reorganization in
January 1984, which significantly broadened the Finance Ministry's
responsibilities, Government obtained Bank assistance for a second TA
project (Cr. 1565-RW), essentially directed to the Ministry of Finance and
consisting of the following:
21 BUNEP is a state enterprise, with administrative and financial autonomy,
placed under the control and supervision of MINIPLAN.



- 10 -
(a) training for HINIFINECO staff and for financial managers in other
ministries and selected parastatal agencies through establishment
of a Training Center in MINIFINECO and provision of remedial on-
the-job training for current staff;
(b) improvement of tax, customs, budgetary procedures (multi-year
programming and budgeting) and accounting practice3 through:
(i)    long-ternm technical assistance (one budgetary procedures
and budget management specialist and one public
accounting specialist) and short backstopping missions;
(ii)   phased introduction of automated data processing;
(c) improvement of financial management of the parastatal sector
portfolio through the services of a business management
specialist; and
(d) improvement of economic policy-making through provision of short
term consultant services.
34.   An innovative feature of this project is the delivery system for
technical assistance which involved a twinning arrangement with the
Ministry of Finance of a European country. Progress in the launching of
the projet, however, has been slow. Measures have now been taken to
improve the situation; as a result, the needed specialists are now in post,
accelerated training is being provided to local staff, and the Ministry's
training center is about to start operations.
D. Economic Management
35.  A series of country economic memoranda (the latest in 1986) addressed
a wide range of policy issues and formulated a number of recommendations
for actions including, inter alia, the need for: (i) pursuing more active
policy-making with respect to the appropriate setting and monitoring of
exchange, tax, tariff, interest and public sector wage rates; (ii)
preparing a realistic public investment program; (iii) applying more
rigorous controls on public sector employment; and (iv) improving
institutional and procedural arrangements to facilitate inter-governmental
communication and policy coordination. A number of these recommendations
were subsequently followed up with concrete action.
36.   Since 1982, Rwanda has taken Important institutional steps in order
to improve its development planning and public sector management. These
include: (a) streamlining of ministerial responsibilities along clear
sectoral lines requiring that key sectoral ministries undertake formulation
of sectoral strategies and programs; (b) broadening of MINIPLAN
responsibilities for: (i) the overall planning process (mainly the
preparation of the Fourth Development Plan 1987-1991); (ii) investment
progrnmming and its monitoring which includes alse  the management of the
pre-investment program and the operation of the preinvestment mechanism
supported by IDA; (iii) harmonization of sectoral strategies; and (iv) the
preparation and updating of economic and social statistics, including
national accounts; (c) creation of seven interministerial coordination



- 11 -
committees (CICs) to foster intersectoral coordination among institutions
dealing with development policy. These seven CICs are the following: (i)
Rural Development and Health (Ministry of Agriculture as chair); (iL)
Economic Policy (Ministry of Finance and Economy as chair); (iii)
Industrial Policy (Ministry of Industries, Hines, and Crafts as chair);
(iv) Housing, Urbanism, and Regional Development (Ministry of Public Works
and Energy as chair); (v) Political and Security Matters (Ministry of
Interior and Communal Development as chair); (vi) Training, Employment, and
Youth Promotion (Ministry of Public Administration and Training as chair);
and (vii) Planning and International Cooperation (Ministry of Planning as
chair); (d) the establishment of a preinvestment mechanism, under the
Ministry of Planning, which has resulted in an improvement in the pre-
investment study capacity of the country (para. 29); and (e) Government has
committed itself to the introduction of multi-year programming of Public
Expenditure and it has already launched a complementary program, financed
by IDA (Credit 1565-RW), to strengthen its Public Finance management.
37.   Nevertheless, a few key deficiencies in the planning process remain.
Namely, (a) the uneven design of sectoral strategies whose comprehensive-
ness and quality 'ary from one sector to another in relation to the
Ministry's technical capabilities; (b) MINIPLAN has not yet developed the
processes and the data base needed for the preparation of medium term
macroeconomic projections for the economy and still needs to improve its
internal organization so as to perform its role as the leading institution
in developing planning; and (c) a lack of technical capacity in the
Planning, the Finance and the line ministries to link the planningl
programming/budgeting process.
38.   To remedy these deficiencies, Government needs to strengthen (a) the
capabilities of technical ministries to prepare sectoral plans, define
sectoral objectives and determine appropriate strategies to achieve them;
(b) coordination between MINIPLAN and MINIFINECO in the preparation and
execution of the progranninglbudgeting process; and (c) its capability to
prepare adequate statistical data for economic menagement.
39.   To that end, Government has called on both UNDP and IDA to finance
coordinated projects of assistance to the Planning Ministry. They consist
of the following:
(a)   continuation for three years of UNDP assistance for economic
analysis of projects, investment programming and other
assistance as described in para. 28; in addition, UNDP would
finance assistance for the design and implementation of a
three-year rolling investment program as an indispensable tool
for linking sectoral strategies and budget planning. The
estimated cost of this project is $ 1.6 million.
(b)   continuation for three years of UNDP assistance for the
strengthening of Rwanda's macro-economic planning capacity; and
planning organization. The first of these objectives would be
met by helping Government to improve (i) the preparation of its
medium-term economic development plan 1987-91; (ii) the
collection and analysis of economic data; and (iii) the
preparation of national accounts. The second objective would



- 12 -
be met by helping the Government to redesign, to the extent
needed, the structure, organization and functions of MINIPLAN.
The cost of this UNDP project would be US$ 2.6 million and it
would finance the following: (i) long-term experts; (ii)
training and fellowships; and (iii) vehicles and equipment;
(c)   the proposed IDA project to replenish the "Study Fund",
focussing on the practical aspects of decision-making in
performing the sectoral planning, preinvestment review and
financing functions, building upon its earlier successful
experience with the Credit 1217-RW (see para. 29 and Part IV,
paras. 47 and 48). The cost of the IDA-financed project would
be about $ 8.3 million.
40.   To ensure consistency among these three operations, Government and
UNDP have approached the Bank to become the Executing Agency responsible
for implementing the two UNDP projects for a period of three years by which
time it is hoped that Government would take over their management.
41.   The above program of three coordinated projects would address
comprehensively the requirements of the Ministry of Planning and would
complement other on-going efforts by Government in association with UNDP
and IDA to improve its planning and programming function across sectors,
and to strengthen its linkages with the budget process, namely under: (a)
the IDA-financed TA project to the Ministry of Finance (Credit 1565-RW) in
the area of Public Expenditure; (b) the UNDP-financed project
"Institutional Strengthenaing of the Agricultural Ministry" in the area of
agricultural planning; (c) the UNDP-financed Bank executed project
"Planning and Management in the Transport Sector" in the area of
transportation planning; and (d) the UNDP-financed project "Assistance to
the Banque Rwandaise du Developpement" in the area of industrial project
appraisal.
42.   To ensure success of this whole program of improvements, by the end
of 1988 at the latest, Government will confirm to IDA the elements of its
institutional framework for the planning, programing and budgeting of its
investments (see Annex IV). These arrangements will include (a) the
methodology and procedures for Public Expenditure Programming (which are
being improved under the ongoing IDA project "TA to the Finance Ministry",
Credit 1565-RW); (b) the linkages between the core economic ministries and
the line ministries (with an indication of the further support needed by
the latter to develop their project preparation capabilities, especially in
the industrial field); (c) the arrangements for coordination between the
Ministries of Planning and Finance; and (d) the arrangements initiated by
Government to ensure that all preinvestment proposals are reviewed by the
appropriate interministerial committee (CIC).
43.   Success of the program will also require the active cooperation of
the Government agencies concerned and of the donors providing TA or other
resources in support of the continuum between macroeconomic, sector and
project management. To that end, Government has agreed that its MINIPLAN,



- 13 -
MINIFINECO and the technical ministries undertake jointly with IDA an
annual assessment of progress in implementing the framework (in relation
with the proposed project) and in the coordination of all projects in place
related to planning and programming. To the extent feasible such review
will be made in coordination with UNDP and relevant bilateral donors.
IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
44.   In May 1985, the Ministry of Planning indicated to IDA their interest
in obtaining further support for strengthening Government's preinvestment
capacity, which had been previously assisted through Credit 1217-RW and its
complementary UNDP-financed TA project with the Bank as Executing Agency.
Project preparation started in October 1985, followed by appraisal in May
1986. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. from March 27 to March 31,
1987. The Government delegation was led by H.E. Ambroise Mulindangabo,
Minister of Planning. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the
beginning of this report. Supplementary project data are contained in
Annex III.
B. Prolect Objective
45.   The purpose of the IDA project is to support Government's objective
to improve its investment/planning process by financing sector! subsector
studies and feasibility studies for development projects so as to help
Government to (i) better define its development objectives and determine
appropriate strategies to achieve them; (ii) continue to improve the
quality of projects submitted for outside financing; and (iii) strengthen
local project preparation capabilities. These improvements are expected to
reinforce the decision-making process in matters of planning and
international cooperation by building upon procedures established for
selection of preinvestment studies under the first credit (see para. 48).
C. Project Description
46.   The project would consist of the following:
a) assistance to carry out the identification, preparation and
execution of sectoral and preinvestment studies;
b) training of selected staff in (i) the preparation,
implementation and monitoring of a rolling Public Investment
Program and (ii) project preparation and appraisal;
c) completion of the installation of a Documentation Center; and
d) logistical support (including vehicles) related to the above.



- 14 -
47.   To coordinate review of the design of sectoral, subsectoral,
prefeasibility, feasibility and detailed engineering studies and the
approval of their financing, Government has established a mechanism called
"Fonds d'Etudes". Under the project, this mechanism would continue to be a
focal point for coordinating the preparation of new studies and investment
projects, and to finance the services of national and foreign consultants.
48.   The preinvestmxent mechanism would continue to be managed by MINIPLAN
according to procedures set up, under the first project and revised on the
basis of experience acquired. These procedures are represented in graph
form in Annex V. They include:
(a) preparation of a half-yearly "study program" consisting of
study proposals made by the line ministries, ranked according
to priority, and to be considered for financing;
(b) review of such proposals by the Interministerial Conmittee for
Planning (CIC);
(c) issuance of standard letters of invitation, and processing of
consultant selection according to a manual of instructions.
To accelerate decision-making, MINIPLAN tonfirmed during negotiations the
following:
(a) it would prepare the "study program" every four months (instead
of every six months);
(b) the Planning and the Projects Directorates of MINIPLAN (see
chart of the Planning Ministry in Annex VIII) would review these
proposals and submit them to the technical level of the
"Planning Committee" (CIC) for further review and recommendation
to the Minister of Planning;
(c) the technical level of the CIC would be convened as often as
necessary, but at least three times a year to consider the
proposals submitted by the line ministries;
(d) after receiving the technical CIC's advice, the Minister of
Planring would select the proposals to be included every four
months in the "study program";
(e) each "study program" would be submitted to IDA, starting no
later than September 1, 1988, for its prompt comments and
agreement.
49.   Selection Criteria.  To be approved for financing, Government also
confirmed during negotiations that the studies would need to meet the
following criteria:



- 15 -
(a) They should be sector studies, feasibility studies or deta.;led
engineering studies, consistent with the priorities of the
Public Investment Program objectives. In addition, the
following specific study criteria would need to be met:
(i)   in the case of feasibility studies, only those intended
for projects included in the PIP or in sector programs
and for which a source of financing (national or
external) has been identified;
(ii) in the case of detailed engineering studies, only those
related to projects the soundness of which has been
demonstrated by a feasibility study; and
(iii) in the case of rehabilitation studies, only those
existing public enterprises for which their potential
economic and/or financial viability have been
demonstrated;
(b) Their cost should be estimated at no more than US$ 250,000 (1987
prices) unless otherwise agreed with the Association.
A tentative list of 19 studies for an amount of USS 4.7 million is already
available (see Annex VII for details).
50.   To manage the preinvestment mechanism and ensure its administrative
sustainability, Government has already designated the Director of Projects
Evaluation of its MINIPLAN as national manager to be responsible full-time
for the work of the concerned expatriate and national staff. Further
organizational arrangements may be required as a result of (a) the need to
broaden use of the preinvestment mechanism procedures to all preinvestment
studies irrespective of the sources of financing (para. 51, below); and (b)
the UNDP financed organization study (para. 39).
51.   Reinforcement of procedures related to planning and investment
decisions. The decision-making path established for studies financed by
IDA under the first project (see para. 4B and Annex V) proved the
usefulness of the CIC as a mechanism for consultation and coordination of
investment decisions between the Planning  ad line ministries. Government
has therefore decided that for the preparation of the next Development Plan
a unified decision-making path based on this experience and that with other
donors would be applied not only for all preinvestment studies, regardless
of the source of financing, but also to all activities related to the
planning process itself. This decision would be set out in a set of
regulations ("Code de Conduite") already being drafted by MINIPLAN
instructing the line ministries that all proposals made regarding sectoral
plans and strategies, preinvestment studies, investment programming,
financing of projects and their execution, and negotiation proposals for
all projects would be reviewed by the technical level of the CIC "Planning
and International Cooperation" before being submitted for approval to the
ministerial level of the CIC. Government has already provided IDA with a
satisfactory draft of these regulations and progress in their
implementation would be reviewed with IDA as part of the periodic
evaluation of project impact. (paras. 42, 43).



_ 16 -
52.   Financial sustainability.  Measures are needed to enhance the
financial sustainability of the preinvestment mechanism. To that end,
Government agreed to increase the proportion of its present contribution to
the financing of studies under the project from an average of 3% at present
to 10 percent of each signed contract during the first three years of
implementation and to 20% from the fourth year until the end of the
project. In addition Government and IDA discussed the possibility of
jointly looking for other ways to achieve that objective, including
converting the preinvestment mechanism into a revolving fund replenished by
resources generated by studies which have led to investment (as necessary,
consideration would be given to measures concerning the fund's
organization, the size of the Government's contributions, accounting and
auditing provisions and how to interest other donors to contribute to this
revolving fund).
53.   Staff Training.  Government and IDA have agreed on arrangements for
coordinating the key economic management processes, macroeconomic planning,
sector studies, public investment planning, budgeting and monitoring (Annex
IV). In addition, a Government Task Force, assisted in part by UNDP, has
prepared a detailed plan for improving the organization of the Ministry of
Planning, which is acceptable to IDA. To develop local capabilities, the
credit would finance an integrated training program in public investment
planning and project preparation and appraisal focusing on: (i) local
seminars for the national staff (see Annex VIII); and (ii) work placements
abroad for "on-the-job' training in planning institutions. The training
program for the first year of implementation is already available and
further programs will be periodically reviewed with IDA (para. 67). The
program is expected to provide about 30 staff months of training.
54.   Documentation Center.  The project would provide technical materials
(books, specialized periodicals, studies and other reference materials) to
the documentation center attached to the Ministry of Planning and
constructed under credit 1217-RW. A list of such materials is being
finalized by the Planning Ministry and its approval by IDA, together with
that of the procurement schedule for such materials, will be a condition of
disbursement of the funds related to this component.
55.   Logistical Support.  The project would also finance vehicles and
essential equipment for the Planning, Projects and Statistics Directorates
of the Planning Ministry for a maximum of $ 90,000.
D. Project Implementation
56.   The Director of Proje.%ts Evaluation of the Planning Ministry would be
responsible for administering the project. All technical ministries have
already been informed by the Planning Minister of the procedures for
administering the preinvestment mechanism.



- 17 -
E. Project Cost
57.   Project costs have been estimated at U.S. $ 8.3 million equivalent,
net of taxes, of which about 85 percent are foreign costs (S 7.1 million
equivalent) and 15 percent local costs ($ 1.2 million equivalent). Items
imported for the project would be exempt from taxes and duties. Project
costs are expressed in March 1987 prices. A contingency allowance is not
necessary for the study fund in view of the fact that this is an open-ended
financing facility: sub-projects will be added as long as funds are
available. A small physical contingency is provided for the purchase of
vehicles and equipment. The project would finance approximately 750 staff
months of consultant services; an indicative distribution being as follows:
75 during the first year, 135 during the second year, 190 during the third
year, 200 during the fourth year and 150 during the fifth year. National
consultants are expected to provide about a third of the expertise to be
financed under the project.
58.   The following table shows the project cost:
Proiect Cost (by category, in U.S. $ thousands)
Local         Foreign      TOTAL    Percent
a. Sector and Preinvestment      1,079.0           6,765.0    7,844.0    95.7
Studies
b. Training                         100.0             150.0      250.0      3.0
c. Materials for                     20.0             40.0        50.0     0.3
Documentation Center
d. Vehicles & Equipment              10.0             80.0        90.0      1.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS3        1,199.0           7,035.0    8,234.0   100.0
e. Contingencies (for c and d)        2.0             14.0        16.0
(Physical only)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         1,201.0           7,049.0    8,250.0
(15%)          (85%)        (100%)
59.   Financing Plan.  IDA would finance about U.S. $ 7.4 million
equivalent ($ 7.0 million of foreign costs and 0.4 million of local costs)
or 90% of total cost, and Government would provide the remaining U.S. 0.9
million equivalent in local currency, making a total cost for the project
of $ 8.3 million.
Procurement, Disbursement, Accounting and Audits
60.   The Government will recruit directly under individual contracts or
through consulting firms, all consultants to be funded under the project.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of
all consultants would be satisfactory to the Association. A form letter of
31 All items would be exempt from import duties and local taxes.



- 18 -
invitation has been agreed with Government and a short-list of consulting
firms will be cleared with IDA before inviting proposals for particular
studies.
61.   Contracts for equipment and related items are expected to cost less
than US$ 20,000 per contract and would be awarded following one of the
following procedures: (a) local competitive bidding (LCB); (b)
international or local shopping; or (c) direct contracting in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines for procurement. Local procurement procedures
were reviewed and found satisfactory. Government would submit to the
Association for prior review, the tender documents indicating the method of
procurement proposed. Bid evaluations, awards and signed contracts would
also be submitted to the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent
practical to encourage competitive bidding (see also Annex IX).
62.   In order to expedite disbursement and give the Government improved
control over the timing of payments due under the credit, the Government
will establish a Special Account in the BNR under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Upon credit effectiveness and receipt of
withdrawal application, the Association would make an advance deposit of
US$ 200,000 into this account. The Association would periodically
replenish this account upon receipt and approval of withdrawal applications
together with satisfactory evidence that the expenditures paid out of the
Special Account were eligible for financing out of this project.
63.   Funds from the credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
a) 90 percent of foreign and 75 percent of local expenditures for the
studies contracted during the first three years and 802 of foreign
and 75% of local expenditures for the next five years;
b) 5 percent of total expenditures for vehicles, equipment and
technical materials;
c) 100 percent of foreign and local expenditures for seminars.
64.   All disbursements would be fully documented except those for short
term consultants, local training and payments against contracts of less
than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made against statements of
expendicure, documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but
the Planning Ministry would make these documents available for IDA
representatives during project supervision. The standard disbursement
profile for Technical Assistance projects in the Eastern and Southern
Africa Region has been retained (assuming commencement of project
activities in 1987).
65.   Auditing would be required on a yearly basis for expenditures related
to the project with particular attention to expenditures reimbursed against
statements of expenditure and the Special Account. Auditing would be
performed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association after the
end of each fiscal year of the borrower and the auditor's report should be
received by the Association withia. six months following the audit.



- 19 -
66. To ensure that Government counterpart funds would be made available
when needed, the Government would establish a Counterpart Fund Account
within the National Bank of Rwanda to finance expenditures incurred by the
project. Government would deposit at the beginning of each quarter
US$ 21,000 equivalent. The first Government deposit of US$ 21,000
equivalent would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
67. Work Plans and Project Reviews. Government agreed during
negotiations that it would prepare staff training plans every year to be
updated every six months and reviewed with IDA. The plans would be linked
with progress reviews of the assignment of Government staff and their
advisers.
68.   Proiect Implementation Schedule.  The first list of studies to be
financed by the project is available (Annex VII). Facilities for the
Documentation Center built under Credit 1217-RW have been completed.
Training seminars on project preparation, appraisal and monitoring, and
investment programming are expected to start in Fall 1987. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1994. The closing date would be
December 31, 1994.
69.   Benefits and Risks.  The project would result in preparation of
sector strategies, production of a portfolio of well prepared projects
ready for submission to financing sources and avoidance of unviable
investments. More importantly, through its formal training component
reinforced by systematic on-the-job training, the project would improve
local capabilities for preparation and appraisal of investment projects and
for investment programming so that after project completion, only highly
specialized short term expertise would occasionally be required. The
mechanisms set up to prepare new projects under the Credit would help
strengthen the institutions involved across Government, better equip the
Ministry of Planning to perform its coordinating functions, and should
improve, in the long run, the institutional framework for overall
investment programming. This would give Rwanda the capacity and technical
competence necessary to translate its planned priorities into coherent
investment programs.
70. There are risks that some of these benefits will not fully
materialize if the work of the General Directorate of Planning and the
General Directorate of Projects within the Ministry of Planning is not well
coordinated. These risks were minimized through provision of assistance to
the Programs Directorate, which should help improve its specific
contri'jution to the planning and programming process, and through
strengthening of the procedures for handling preinvestment studies, which
should provide a reasonable framework for integrating the work of the two
Directorates. Moreover, these risks are expected to diminish over the life
of the project as procedures are further tested, modified and accepted.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.   I rocomnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
ProsLdent
Washington, D.C.
April 23, 1987



Annex I
- 21 -                                                         Page 1 of 2
COUNMRh DATA - RWANDA
(Ml IlIe-ne Ref Outtend in4g fnd Periodl)
let. CREDfl AM PRICES                                       1960      t661     2962     2983      1914     1965
.. ._..... __... _.............---                                    ..... ____ _,__ .__
Money SuAPI  ./                                            14117    1931    1825Ub     1ow4    sou1    23308
Sank Crudit to Ooaern.nt (net)                             -n391    -2aea      -o       20D9      1912     1731
Blnk Credit to Privste Sector                               6179     7724      6027     USd6    13e 6     l6S407
laink Credit to Putbl   Entorpriene                          210       147      410      68       618        78
(percentege or Inde  Nunbera)
Money aa t of CDP'                                            1.2     11.0     12.2     12.7      11.8    12.7
CPI Avreram  2nd Qubtr 1982-100                             65.0    900.    101.9   LO6.8    214.16   116.5
Annuat Percentage Changes in4
Consommer Prica Index                                   7.3 J      .5     12.6      6.6      5.4       1.7
ferk Credit to Oowernent (not)                        170.4     26.7     76.6    164.5    -4.9       -9.5
Bank Credit to Priwate Sector                          41.5     25.0      3.9       4.0     23.0     10.6
Dunk Credit to Public Ennterpries                      -9.8     31.2     49.9    10J.3   -17.6       -3.1
BALANCE OF PAWOENS                        198D     1981      1q92     1981      1914    10s            NRCIND6 I E   BDWS (AVWIACE 198-lW9
--- --- ----- --             - ----    -- --- -- ---------- --- --       --- ---.. ... .. ... ... ..---
(US6 MILLIONS)                                                WI3 Min.  Perc nt
Ewarte (ge.fs)                           165.7    110.7    142.0    162.2    174.6    161.2            Coffee                 80.7      52.8
Imports (g.nfo)                          322.    331.9    336 6    312.4   312.3   336.1               Tee                    14.9      11.1
Cn-iterit,TFin        19.0       14.8
Resource Coa (deficit--)                -157.1   -181.2  -196.6  -160.2  -137.7  -174.9                Wohfrer-                3.2       2.5
Other                 10.7       6.3
Factor Services (net)                      5.0     11.5       0.0     -6.3      -S.0    -S.7           Total                 126.5     100.0
Private Transfere (not)                   -3.2     -J.0       4.7      5.5      1.6       4.3
Setance on Current Account              -153.3   -172.7   -161.0   -161.0  -140.0  -276.3              EXTENAL OET AS Oe ODt. 31. 1* 8   USit kin.
Offlcial Grants                          107,4    105.8    108.2    112.3      90.3    112.1           Pekl;c Debt. Ircl. c     ".ermnteed     324.4
Direct Private Foreign Inveatment         17.0     18.6      20.7     11.1     15,1      14.6          Mon Gueranteed Private Debt                --
Net MLT Loans                             J1.0    2n.1       21.6     24.3     36.0      55.2          Total Dutetandino and Da-bhrnd          324.4
Other Capital (net)                        0.6     -2.1      -0.7      1.1     -0.1      2.8
Short Term Capital (net)                  21.8     19.9      8.6      -6 0      4.7    -6.0            DEBT S50VICE RATIO FDR 146i  b/      Percent
Allocation of SORe                         3.1      2.7      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0           --------------------- - ----
Errors A Omision                         -12.4     10.4      -0.1      1.2     -0.6    -0.3
Public Debt. Inel. Cu_ranteed             9.5
Incr see in Reervee( )                  -1.32    -11.6      36.6      17.0   -13.6    -0.2             Non Guareateed Private Debt                --
Total Outatanding and Disbursed           9.5
Petroleum Imports                        29.1      3J.5     39.1      44.3    51.1      51.5
IDA LEWNG AS OF ST.  10.296         US5 "In.
_   ___--  - ---------------
RATE OF EXCHANOE                                        Annual Avernags
------------- ----- ------------------------------O utstanding end Diabure                                                             168
19e0     1961     1982      1983     168      1965           Undisbursed                             112.9
Outstand;in  Inl. Undiehureed          316.6
L56 1.00 - Ref                           92.84    92.84    92.64    94.34   100.17   101.26
a:/ inc ludee eoney and euaa-foney.
e:/ Debt servie-  a a percentage of oeporta of goods and non-feetr  re Ies.



Annex I
-22 -Page 2o 
cOeMR  DATA-ANAW
AM    (Thomand aq. bim.)                        POPULATION                             WOZTY (I"!)
.......................                          ........".                            ...........
K.'                                             0.5  IIIIen CnlJ-Ie2                   210 par square km.
Rln  of orouthi  .63                  303 per equaere lm. 1 arable lend.
(fre  1976 t. 1962)
POPILATION CHAIACTEMIS7ICS (1076)                                                      WALT" (100)
a"! "... . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . -   " " X 9 9 * *-^                                 . . . . . . . . ......................... .......-  - 
Crude birth rate (per lO0)                            82                               Popuistlen per phyicalen                 31840
Crud, denth rets CPAr 3000)                           to                               Populatlon sar hosital bud                 "0
Percent urba
INCOME  OZEThIUIUTIE                                                                  gOem  CEUT        EN mP  CAPITA
----------........... .. .^...........
S of natluel incene  hih-lat qlutlia                   --                              (KIllgreme o1f1 elalValeon                  16
forest   uinbles              --
ACC$ a TO MM WATER (1 im)                                                              ACCE  To IaI cmTRT
-----------                                                                      ................................ ..
3-. populatlon - hotel                                 54                              3 of ppltllon - tot al
- rural
FM0  & NJTRITION                                                                       fJCATION (10)
= ._____ ----                                                                           ............ __._..
chalrie intaoe an S d  requiremanta                 11.0                               Melt Ilito eray rte I a/                     7
Per Capita PrOlsf Intae (on/day)                    50.0                              PrImary school enrollment I
GW PM CAPITA IN 1064 b/: 1270
OISS OISfTIC PRMJT IN 1W14                                                            ANAIPIL NATE OF COW   (I. CNSTAIr IMW  tRCI)
us lN                  S                                   1979-US            1964.00
MP et mrket Prices                       15680.7             100.0                                   a.6                0.5
Cross domestic investment                 195.6               11.6                                  11.0               10.6
Crose notional savinga                    106.2                6.3                                  -0.3              -2B6.
Currdnt aCcount bhmence                 -140.6                -6.4
Expoets (g.nfs)                          174.5                10.4                                   0.3               -0.9
ImPorts (antsf)                          200.6                17.3                                   6.4               11.1
CDP at fector coat                      1449.4               100.0                                   6.0               -4.3
Primary sector                           621.4                42,0                                   4.1              -14.7
Secondary sector                         305.6                21.1                                   3.7                4.1
Tertiary sector                          522.6                26.1                                   7.0                2.0
CDvEdT FINANCE (Contral Covarnuent)                                                   (faf  i a.)                       2 .r CDP
.- - - - - - - - - - - - -    ........ . , .                                          -- - -- -                 -- - - - -     -  --
19n                   19e6               1979
Current roverul                                                                          9.10                  10.6               12.7
Currant ewpond ;Lure                                                                     19,102                  10.6                6.7
Current surpils                                                                              3                    0.0                4.0
Oaelawp_nt appenditure                                                                   3.J00 c/                 2.0                2.2
o s    According to eatimtes by the Ministry of Primary and Secondsry Educetion.
b:/  The per cuplts  W  est;imte calculated by the emme conversen technique as the world Bank Atlas. All other
cenersiona to dollarm  in thia table are a  the average  sachenms rate prev*;I lg during the period  iered.
*         c:/  Ua~Mdgeb ost I metes.
c /  mat availahle.
.4 not spaleublIs.



-23-
ANSX XII
Pae1 ot2
THE SAT  OF BANK GMiP ORATIWSN RWAND
A. Statent of mA Credits
(As of September 30, 1986)
Amnrt Is$ tilima
Ccedit No.         Fiscal Year      Borroer                Purpose              (less csnoollatioo)
mA    Urdisbarswl5/
(Ten credits tav been fully disbursel/                                         77.49
937-g W2 31        1979            IEnda           Mitara AgricultLral &
Livestodc lrekqp'.t        8.75       0.40
1039-i             1980                             Ig           restry
Livestock Dvelopmnt       21.00       0.14
1057-R             1981                             TPein Catlws                7.50        1.46
1126-i              1981                              D COffee/FoOdCezpe        15.00       3.48
1217-W             19B2                             Teclical Assistance         5.00        2.65
15-i                1982                            Fifth FIgiay               25.90        8.62
1263-i             1982                -            Second Fducatim             10.00       7.43
1283-W              1982               -            Phase II Bugesera/
tsIaikaJHIgongo           16.30       6.42
344WI               1983                             a  In                      7.00        4.25
1345-iW             1983                            Water Supply               13.00        2.65
1420D-              1984                              azizi II Hydroeletric    15.00       10.28
1495-IR*            1984                            Paer                        9.00        3.86
1546-if             1985                                         R Agricu   Research  11.50  12.45
1565-               1985               -            Tbeciical Assistance II     4.80        5.46
1641-i              1986               -sixth HIW                               11.00      12.98
AO1-IW              1986               -             Sit Hglga                  15.00      17.59
1650-w 4/           196                             Fourth ERD                  9.00       10.31
1669-l              1986               -              itarama Agriculature &    12.70      14.20
14ngri Devt. Project
1678-W 4h 1986                                      Fauly Health                10.80      11.89
1683-w V/           1986               t            Third Aruation              15.60      16.38
Total                321.34      152.92
of which has bem repaid          1.71
Total rw  outstaxlig        319.63
Amhnt sold            4.10
of which has bem repaid  4.10
Total nw beld by MI         319.63
Total undisbursed                       152.92
1J Rwanda bas received no Bank loan.
21 The DA credit was cmcxplrted by an EEC Special Artion Credit of U5$1.7 utUon.
31  Ielrngirg a  D   Grant P            of 4.4 mdl.lo.
4/ Not yet effective.
5/ Thmept Credits 937, 1039, 1057-M, th  lisbursed   lance of IDA 6 & 7 In USS
w  calculated at the SE rate of 9/3D/86.



- 24 -
AMEX 11
Pqt 2 of 2
S.  9aterat of IFC INwest=  in  iamda
(as cf 3ime.30, 1986)
-   I;C's edstiIg iMestments in Rlrda oOuip   the tw inesmtents previoisy mde ln
SoratbL a-d 1is predecessor cC1pwes, SIM and flE1. DIetais are as follws.
Total
Immstzmt   PJ.scFLL              Type of                              Held by
mer         Year    OSs                            Ln lt3   la  btal   _C   Udisbursed
337-4I      1975    S&rnatbg) Tea pro-       -     0.54   0.54       0.16        -
)   essrg
470-I:D     1979      SDrWathE) ard        0.06 al 0.23   0.29       0.11        -
764-1       1985      !art)                 -      0.25   0.25        -        0.25
Total                             0.06    1.02   1.08       0.27       0.25
a/ Cacelled In July 1984



Annex III
-25-                                Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
Sectoral and Preinvestment Studies Proiect
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
a) Identification:                     May 1985
b) Preparation:                        October 1985 - April 1986
c) Appraisal:                          May 1986
d) Negotiation:                        March 1987
e) Planned date of effectiveness:      November 1987
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
b) Condition of Effectiveness
(i)   The deposit of US$ 21,000 equivalent into a Counterpart Fund
Account established at the National Bank of Rwanda
(para. 66).
c) Condition of Disbursement
(i)   Receipt of an acceptable list of technical materials, and a
procurement schedule, would be a condition of disbursement of
the funds related to the Documentation Center (para.54).
d) Other Conditions
(i)   By December 31, 1988 at the latest, Government will provide
IDA with a description of its institutional framework for the
planning, programming and budgeting of its investments.
Annually thereafter it will evaluate in association with IDA
the impact of the methods and procedures adopted to carry out
the studies financed under the project on the functioning of
the above framework and implement all necessary measures
arising out of such evaluation (paras. 42, 43, 51);



Annex III
-26-                                 Page 2 of 2
(ii)  Government will follow procedures agreeable to IDA for
selecting and financing preinvestment studies and will
prepare and review preinvestment study proposals on a four
monthly basis with the first program to be submitted to IDA
no later than September 1, 1988 (para. 48). Selection
criteria for the studies should be acceptable to IDA as
provided under para. 49;
(iii) Every six months Government will review with IDA, its staff
training plans for the Ministry of Planning (para. 67).



-27 -ANNEX TV
Page l of 1
M~~~~Mi
jjr^tSTIC}            r oPERIOIC
ODEUNITIOw OF
MaM SEVELWMVG                    pib *      g.       
Consltattoe        lmZlUTXS mDe G
Presses            MACR  ECUKMIC PRANECK
OECEIA q. \                               P                             P-SNT
Pr~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~r
PIP Crelling)                            PE  (roW  I  I  no)
rCCNNICAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1 2f                L '. 2 i 3ear
TO&
._  PLrR   mEAN    OIREC T PRtOJECT   MEuuIr I U MoTDIST
51131 |II>OOF PRJT             SIS  - MMIU    AL.
Submit Project for approerni-
.Prject luple nescti  _E
1.  Estahlish Plan ohjoctiweos    S.   Corersy  otody.               tL   Evoluot. projocuto
sod sctokr end crsoss                                                e..pesft* adjust osconseic
sector priorities. Dwl lna    7.   butter pregrem of                 devele peon  pas sod
oconosic peE Isln                  stais                              ewise methodelegila foe.
roqaji red.                                                          project preperotes seed
S.  APprotoe ond oppreve               eppraisl.
2.  Prosoro sector otrtotglee           Projejt      te late             " g 
mnd identify project               occemet recurrent cts).    14.  |M ovoitohie to
idese.                                                               Docuenotation Cantre,
0.  Ester project ftote PIP            copies of sector
S.  Ricord ond mpdete prjet           sod ecmtodee Its                   starstog    proejos
idee s  contrest tiles            Impleentation.                     ctudis. oppreteel
(incledlog Cost. ,rsndm%w
tisetobbo.'progrome In        It. P qropere   i PeW islogIcal pepors.
isplmatatios).           ~Expenditure Progas
(PEP) sad propos
4.  Scido to study project           Ftnoeclsl plea to Ms. Fl.
Ides oftoW ceseeltettos                                           Note:  Components  of  reform
alte lntorolntouriol          IL. Eosoro estorel finoocing                  program   are  identified
d uebt).by  capital  letters,  A,
5.  Roteod project Woe into                                                      B, C, D, E, F,  Fa  and  Fb.
PIP End periodically          12. Mon tor sod  ea bePl
revlee portfolio of               pre oclt  epie   etetihn
*dlp;.                            (end adjeot                         p    edgeto,
PZP/PU).



THE PREINVESTMENT PROCESS
OTHER ENITIES
*                                 ACTIVITIES             TIME       TECHNICAL      STUDI  DIR. PRGPAR. I         DIX.
.  PERIOD  HINISTRY        FUND        PROJECTS     STDIESIIVAL.1 MINISTER
I        PROPOSE STUDY IDIA            "IN. *_
DECISION    SUBMIT TO PLAN                1 DATY
TO       EXAMINE IDEA                  MAX. I
CARRT OUT    CONSULT HIN. TECH             3 MONTHS        X-
STUDT      SUBHIT IDEA TO CIC            UNTIL                                                                          -TCHNICAL CIC1 (1 NEtTINO
PREPARE REPORT AND RZCOHH.   NEXT CIC                                                                    _AGs qCARXTE)
DECIDE (APPROVE OR NOT)       NECTING
TRANSMIT DOSSIER                                                                                               ALL MINISTRIES
PREPARE DOSSIER
ADVISE                                                              Z  - 3
11         CONSULT POSSIBLE SOURCESS-X POTTIAL AiD DOPOI
PREPARATION    OF FINANCE FOR EVENTUAL
OF TOR AND     PROJECT
INVITATION    TERIF"  TOR, BUDGET, LIST
OF TENDERS    OF CONSULTANTS
DECIDE TO OFFICIALLY
TRANSMIT
RECEIVE DOSSIER
SUBMIT TO IBRD                                                                                                 I -I-D (KCIALKJMASRINGTON)       M
REfCEIVE OPINION OF  SRID                                  X                                                  (01 OCAER S OFRCE OP  IANCE)      c
AUTHORISE FINANCING BY
STUDY FUND
CALL FOR PROPOSALS 
IIX I      RECEICtl   PROP05ALS                                            _IIFINECO
SELECTION    EVALUATE PRDPOSALS                            X-- --      -- -        -  XnDEN CCmIIs4
AND       SELECT CONSULTANrT
RhllINO     OBTAIN APPROVAL FROH                                                                                            AID DMIS
or         AID DONORS.
CONSULTANTS   PREPARE CDONTRCT
NEGOTIATE CONTRACT
.              SIGN COINTRA
It         MAKE PAThENTS
IMPLEMENT     ENSURE FOLLOW-U?
STUDY       APPROVt RESULTS                                                                                              I mm HlR IINl S
20 members  (16 minist.,  4 parastat.)                                       Z/ Temporary function                     3/ or Dir. Synthesis and
Interministerial Technical Consulting Committee                                                                            Strategy  (Sectorel Studies)
(CIC), responsible for reviewing project studies
4  Tender Committee - Ministry of Finance                                        -------- indicates two-vay consultations                                         Cs
Ministry of Planning
Technical Ministry concerned                                                                                                      0 c
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Annex VI
-29                                 Page 1 of 2
LIST OF STUDIES FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 1217-iW
(by sector)
Amounts       Possible
financed      sources of
or to bq       financing
financed by       for
Cost     the project      execution
(in US$)   (in US$)
Transportation
Route (Kigali-Nyameta-Nemba)*                 215,870     211,142
Route (Bugarama-Mashyuza)*                    158,593     146,197            BAD
Creation d'un reseau d'auto-ecoles             36,285      36,285      Private Sector
Centre de controle technique automobile       128,895      86,052      Private Sector
Centre &changes routiers                      137,845      75,411
Fonds Routier                                 115,618     115,618            IDA
Industry
Zones Industrielles Kigali Nord*              222,830     222,830
Usine d'allumettes de Butare*                  29,288      29,288      Private Sector
D&veloppement d'activit;s de Konfigi*          25,745      25,745       GRET (France)
Panneaux en bois                              25,000       10,500     Private Sector
Agriculture
Amenagement Basse Valle Akagera*             374,777     299,444      Several Donors
Plan Directeur Nyabarongo*                     41,498      41,498            IDA
Amenagement des marais Mwogo*                 338,941      71,015            FED
D3veloppement de la peche                     443,360     211,198          Belgium
Urban and Water
Urban Sectoral Plan*                          176,679     176,679            IDA
Chantier des jeunes*                           69,526      47,130
Programme de logements economiques            208,092     Z05,092       Saudi Arabia
Restructuration des quartiers spontanes       306,432     207,717         FENUP/IDA
a Kigali
Rehabilitation des adductions d'eau en        350,000     350,000          IDAIONG
milieu rural
Systemes d'assainissement                     111,961     108,686        BADIIDAIRAF
Telecommunications
Preparation du projet Communications II*       88,389      88,389            IDA
Daveloppement institutionnel des postes       250,000     250,000            IDA
et communications



Annex VI
-30-                                  Page 2 of 2
Amounts       Possible
financed      sources of
or to be       financing
financed by       for
Cost     the proiect      execution
(in US$)   (in US$)
Electricity and Power
Mini-centrales Rukarara - Mukungura II        611,804     608,392            BAD
Plan Directeur Electrification Kigali -
- an 2000                                     230,000     230,000          RAFIBAD
Gaz Methane - Lac Kivu*                       131,343     131,343    IDAlBelgium/CEPGL
Hydrologie Lac Bulera                         120,000      120,000    (currently being
negotiated)
Financial
Craation d'un systue
Epargne-Logement                               17,700       17.700     Rwanda Banking
system
4,115,9001
* Completed studies
1/ At January 16, 1987, US$ 3.0 million of this total had been disbursed.



- 31 -
Annex VII
PRELIMINARY LIST OF STUDIES
Agricultural Sector
- Management of Agricultural Industries *
- National Coffee Policy *
- Leather and Animal Skins **
- Livestock and Dairy Produce *
- Pyrethrum **
- Essential Oils **
- Edible Oils Production **
Power and Energy Sector
- Methane Gas at Lake Kivu **
- Peat **
- Energy requirements of Cement Factory at Mashyuza **
- Energy Saving *
Education Sector
- National Training Center *
Urban Sector
- Construction Materials **
- Market Improvement **
Industry Sector
- Textiles **
- Cardboard Production **
Other Studies
- Rehabilitation of the P.E. "Rwanda Paper Factory ***
- Rehabilitation of the P.E. "SONAFRUITS" *
- Environmental National Policy *
-   *    Sectoral Study
-**   Preinvestment Study
***  Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Study



- 32 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
TRAINING PROGRAM
The credit will finance the following residential seminars:
1. Sectoral Planning
2. Regional Planning
3. The Project Cycle
4. Project Appraisal
5. Investment Programming
6.  Public Expenditure Programning
7. Honitoring and follow-up of projects



- 33 -
Annex IX
Page 1 of 1
PROCUREMENT TABLE
Item                   Amount               Method
(US$ thousands)
1. Preinvestment Studies          7,133.0         IDA Guidelines
2. Training                          250.0        IDA Guidelines
3. Documentation Center                2.5        Direct from publisher
(technical material)
4. Vehicles & Equipment                4.5        LCB, price quotation, or
direct contracting
TOTAL IDA Financing     7,390.0



AnnexX
34  I- Pge   of I
mImrIHIRY OF PLANNINGa - ORCANrZATIONAL CHART
DrRECTION           DIVISION                BUREAU
G ONT DES                                   I
i u]           | COIIPTES DE     Lr ~ENTREPRISES ET _
M B                 t ~~LA NATION     E    QUWTES-lDE UL     1
ggo                                             PRODUCTION RURAUE|
z E_.                                                                  |STAT. FlNd@NC.
o S                          _lST^TISTZqUES        _  ICltED~~~IT$. COM1. TRANSP._
EZ:                           ICOURAtlTES            U~~~~~~~STATISTICS
L) F;GS^ITQE                                                              DEMOCR, ET SERVTCES
_  -                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INFORMATIONET
ET             lOUINAIN
D1OCUMENTATI0
r AIDE MULTIIsTERALE        I
FINANCEMENT        _  _ AIL U8IIAT RE  .       i1
o      X  ELABORATIOH       U  a~~~IEURE                3NC  
;   Fs                | BUOS;ETAIRE      L ~~~FINANCEMENT
r   _   z 3                                    NTERNE                UC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESTION FONIDS
1W;  j   X !S Q                                    JGES~~~~~~~~~~~~~TION DES    C|TR   A7 
- E g  i   P3 M >                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~AIDES EXTERIRIE  _ VERIFICATION AIDE BILAT
Z;  X   PZ Q  . W         FINANCIERE     ~        ~       ~      ~      ERFICMADE  JL
ZE~ ~~~~U C)   A        Z  ZF|GESTION EUDCET D   _-CUAAIIEED 
>    M; _  _   o~~ P4 D- O                                       D LOPPEMENT 
P    O Z        si                                     INR&TRUCTURES|
H ~ ~ ~~        ~~~ E4  FDA  n]iNspEcTIrN ET  |    INDUSTRIE EAU                  I
w    A3        Q~~~~ E-0 2; w               CONTROLE DES   E^ T ENERCIEI
9   cJ  J g 9 n                     I~~~~~~~ PROJETS      DEELPEMN
_    _            i S                             _        _ E3  f-NFRASTRUCTURE
Oa oCI PREPARATION                             N  IOUSTRIE EAU  I
z                 ---I ET EVALUATION  r--tTENERCIEI
U                     L DES PROJETS    I  DEVELDPPE-MENT 
.,  ~~~~~~~~~~~RIRRALI
_EVAWATION DES      I
|                                   | EV~~~~~PRGAMUATI W
4 ad    I   I                       I I~~~~~~~EVALUATION DES I
I SZI                                            STRATEGIESI
I Z Ff $    I        .              J~~~~~PROGR. DES IWIEST.
I DA ZS  ,        I  r ~~PROGRAMMATIN  l I1HMAINSI
J ': V  |         I  | ~~DES           r-  PROGR. DES INVS.
I    O      II    INVESTI SSEUETS                  FINANCIERSI
I FS :E  I   |                        1^ W ~~~~ADINISTRATIONS ETI
I R) ;  I   I            _          ri~~~~~SERVICES A LA  I
I SS    I         L 1- ~~~SYNTHESE DE    L C HOLLECTIVITE      I
f C1    |         [--1 ~~STRATEGIES    TlLJlFRASTRUCTuRES-
I   I       I                       I L>~~~~~~~~CONOMIqUES_ 
L  I         |                      L~~~~~~~~~~-iPRODUCTIONI
I                 ~~~~~IPLANIFICATIO     -B
X                  IRECIO~~~NALEICRYNKCYEGS 
-                         .              ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~DIRECTION  DIVISrON          BUREAU



