OFFICIAL
L0r1 n r. i
CREDIT NUMBER 1796 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Sectoral and Pre-Investment Studies Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1796 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1987, between RWANDESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "MINIPLAN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning;
(b) "Planning and International Cooperation CIC" means the
Borrower's Interministerial Coordinating Committee for planning
and international cooperation, established pursuant to Presi-
dential Arrdte No. 630/06 dated October 12, 1984;
(c) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31;
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e) "FR" means Francs Rwandais, the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend co the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account at Banque Nationale
du Rwanda on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at te rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1997, and ending November 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal r-mount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its MINIPLAN with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate planning, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without any limitations to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and for purposes of financing the
cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project not
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall:
(a) opep and thereafter maintain in FR an account (the
counterpart funds account) at Bangue Nationale du Rwanda;
(b) deposit into such. counterpart funds account an initial
deposit in FR equivalent to $21,000;


﻿(c) thereafter deposit every quarter in said account an
amount in FR equal, unless the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, to the aforementioned amount; and
(d)  furnish to the Association for its review and comments
quarterly reports on the use of said counterpart funds in sucti
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 1, 1988, cause its MINIPLAN to
prepare and propose to the Association a first four monthly
program of strategic sectoral and subsectoral studies, prefeasi-
bility, feasibility, engineering and other preinvestment studies
to be carried out by the various Ministries of the Borrower. Such
program shall be prepared following the procedures and in accor-
dance with the selection criteria set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(b) thereafter not later than January 1, May 1, and
September 1, in each lear furnish to the Association such program
for review and comments within a reasonable delay; and
(c) based on such comments, finalize such pro-ram.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project, the    rower shall:
(a) not later than September 1 in each year prepare and
furnish to the Association for review and comments a proposed
annual training plan for MINIPLAN's staff and the st,-iff of the
various departments of the Borrower responsible for the identifi-
cation, preparation and execution of such studies for the
following year;
(b) based on such comments, make a12 the necessary changes
in such plan;
(c) not later than March 1 in each year with respect to such
each annual plan, review with the Association, the progress
achieved in carrying out such plan during the past six months; and
(d) based on such review, if necessary, make adjustments in
the implementation of such plan for the remainder of the year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3 06. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association for its approval a list of books, periodicals and
educational materials to be procured under Part C of the Project
togethei with the proposed schedule for the procurement thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1988, furnish to the
Association a description of its planning, programming and
investments budgeting structures;
(b) based on the experience gained in the execution of the
four monthly programs of studies, not later than December 31, each
year, starting December 31, 1988, assess with the Association
whether the methods and procedures adopted for the carrying out of
such studies improved the functioning of the structures mentioned
in paragraph (a) above; and
(c) based on such review, take all appropriate actions.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payments
out of the Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that the counterpart funds account referred to
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement has been opened and the
initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) of said Section has
been made.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6,02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et de 1'Economie
B.P. 158
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINECO                      502 MINAFET
Rwanda
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          w-4           <9"-
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                5,670,000       90% of foreign
services under                              expenditures and
Part A of the                               75% of local
Project                                     expenditures in
year one, two and
three, 80% of
foreign expendi-
tures and 75% of
local expendi-
tures thereafter
(2) Vehicles, equip-               4,000        5%
ment and mate-
rials under
Part D of the
Project
(3) Materials and                  2,000        5%
equipment under
Part C of the
Project
(4) Training under               200,000        100%
Part B of the
Project
(5) Unallocated                   24,000
TOTAL                      5,900,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "year one" in the column setting forth the
percentages of expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for
Category (1) means the first year after effectiveness;
(d) the term "year two" in the column setting forth the
percentages of expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for
Category (1) means the second year after effectiveness; and
(e) the term "year three" in the column setting forth the
percentages to be financed out of the Credit for Category (1)
means the third year after effectiveness.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) expenditures for books, periodicals and educational
materials under Category (3) other than those books, periodicals
and educational materials included in the list approved by the
Association pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
strengthening its planning and investment capacities by the
financing of strategic sectoral, subsectoral and feasibility
studies for investment projects to enable the Borrower to:
(i) better define its development objectives and determine the
strategies to be adopted to reach such objectives; (ii) continue
improving the quality of investment projects presented to foreign
donors; and (iii) strengthen the Borrower's departments respon-
sible for the preparation of investment projects.
Part A:   Studies
Identification, preparation and execution of strategic
sectoral and subsectoral studies, prefeasibility, feasibility,
engineering   and other preinvestment studies proposed by the
Borrower.
Part B:   Training
Carrying out a training program for the staff of different
departments of the Borrower responsible for the identification,
preparation and execution of such studies including:
(a) seminars in public investment planning and project
preparation and evaluation; and
(b) on-the-job training in appropriate institutions abroad.
Part C:   Documentation Center
Provision of books, specialized periodicals and educational
materials to MINIPLAN's Documentation Center.
Part D:   Logistical Support
Provision of about 4 vehicles and office equipment to the
Planning Directorate, Projects Directorate and to MINIPLAN's
Documentation Center.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less each may be awarded on the basis of:
(a) competitive bidding, in accordance with the applicable
procedures of the Borrower; and
(b) comparison of price quotations from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the
procedures referred to in paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   Such equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than
$20,000 each may also be purchased through regular commercial and
other local channels at a reasonable price, account being taken of
relevant factors such as the availability of spare parts and time
of delivery.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the


﻿- 13 -
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
In accordance with the principles set forth in such
Guidelines and more specifically in paragraphs 1.11 to 1.14, the
Borrower shall include in the shortlist to be prepared for each
study one or several local consultants firms if such firms are
qualified to execute the task which are prescribed, either on
their own or in association with foreign firms.


﻿14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Gredit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent


﻿- 15 -
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to
or with any request for replenishment or upon request of the
Association, such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund


﻿- 16 -
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Program of Studies
MINIPLAN coordinates the preparation of a four monthly
program of proposed strategic sectoral and subsectoral studies,
prefeasibility, feasibility, engineering and other preinvestment
studies and monitors the carrying out of such studies. Such
studies are selected following the procedures and in accordance
with the criteria set forth below:
A.   Procedures for the selection of studies to be included in the
four monthly program.
1.   The various Ministries of the Borrower will submit study
proposals to MINIPLAN for their review.
2.   Thereafter, MINIPLAN will submit such proposals to the
Planning and International Cooperation CIC for further review.
3.   The Minister of Planning after reviewing the recommendations
of the Planning and International Cooperation CIC prepares a four
monthly program of studies to be furnished to the Association for
its approval pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
B.   Selection criteria for the inclusion of a proposed study in
the four monthly program.
1.   To be included in such program, any strategic sectoral and
subsectoral study, prefeasibility, feasibility, engineering and
other preinvestment study shall meet the following criteria:
(a) be part of the Borrower's public investment program; and
(b) unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the cost for each individual study as financed under Cate-
gory (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall not exceed $250,000
in 1987 prices.
2.   In addition, depending on its classification any such study
may have to meet the following criteria:
(a) feasibility studies:
Such studies shall be intended for investment projects
included in the Borrower's public investment program or


﻿- 18 -
in sector programs for which a source of financing has
been identified.
(b) engineering studies:
Such studies shall be related to investment projects
which soundness has been demonstrated by a feasibility
study.
(c) rehabilitation studies:
Such studies shall be for public enterprises which
economic and financial viability has been demonstrated.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


