Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7269-KG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 5, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1998)
Currency Unit = Som
Som 1 = US$ 0.043
US$1 = Som 23.4
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                Asian Development Bank
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CSAC               Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit
EIR                Extending IFC's Reach Initiative
Emgek              Employment Promotion Program
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW                Economic and Sector Work
EU                 European Union
FINSAC             Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSU                Former Soviet Union
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
MLSP               Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NATSTATKOM         National Statistical Committee
NDC                Notional Defined Contributions
PAYG               Pay-As-You-Go
PESAC              Private Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit
PSRMAC             Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit
SF                 Social Fund
SOSAC              Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TACIS              Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
U9MB               Unified Monthly Benefit
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:      Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera (ECCO8)
Sector Director:     James Christopher Lovelace (ECSHD)
Sector Leader:       Michal Rutkowski (ECSHD)
Team Leader:         Philip Goldman (ECSHD)



FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                Kyrgyz Republic
Amount:                  SDR 26.7 million (US$36.5 mil'lion equivalent)
Terms:                   IDA terns with a thirty-five year maturity, including a
grace period of ten years
Summary:                 The Social Sector Adjustment Credit will support the
Government's efforts to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the social insurance and social assistance
systems through reforms aiming at: (1) establishing a
fiscally sustainable pension scheme that will provide a
stronger linkage between contrilbutions and benefits, while
providing a minimum level of guaranteed support to
prevent poverty; (2) improving the effectiveness of labor
market interventions under conditions of high
unemployment; and (3) implementation of effective, well-
targeted and fiscally sustainable programs to alleviate
poverty.
Schedule of Disbursement: To be released in two equal tranches: the first SDR 13.35
million upon effectiveness, and the second SDR 13.35
million upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions.
Implementing Agencies:   The Ministry of Finance (overall coordination)
The Social Fund
The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
The National Statistical Committee
Poverty:                 This is a poverty focused operation
Project ID Number:       KG-PE-38569
Map:                     IBRD 29801
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  INTRODUCTION .......................................1
2.  ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .......................................1
3.  THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM STRATEGY .......................................3
A. BACKGROUND AND KEY IssuEs ......................................3
The Pension System .......................................3
The Social Assistance System ......................................  .5
The Labor Market ....................................................  ..6
B. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM                     . . . 7
The Pension System                           ..7
The Social Assistance System                     ..8
The Labor Market                             . .9
4.  THE PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                     ....9
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE                     .9
B. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................   10
C. TRANCHE CONDITIONALITY ...............................                       10
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ARRANGEMENTS        ..12
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .13
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS.                                                         1 3
G. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPuBLic    .       .14
5. COLLABORATION WITH TIE IMEF AND OTHER DONORS .14
6. RECOMMENDATION .15
MAP IBRD No. 29801
The findings in this Report are based on the work of a SOSAC appraisal team consisting of Philip
Goldman (Program Team Leader, ECSHD); Dinara Djoldosheva (Deputy Team Leader,
ECCKG); Alexandra Posarac (ECSHD, pension policy and administration); Paulette Castel
(ECSPE, pension policy analysis); Kinnon Scott (DECRG, poverty and statistics); Gary Fine
(PSDSE, financial management); Antonio Lim (ECSHD, credit operations); Nakia Whitley and
Danelle R. Howell-Vaughn (Team Assistants, ECSHD); Chris de Neubourg and Ceema Namazie
(social assistance, consultants); Jan Pakulski (EXTRO, public information); Alan Abrahart (labor
market, consultant); and Bernard Paris and Jose Pires (Social Fund accounting, consultants). The
SOSAC peer reviewers are David Lindeman (HDD) and Mansoora, Rashid (ECSHD). Many
substantive inputs were provided by Nancy Cooke (Country Officer, ECC08), Ritu Anand and
Pedro Rodriguez (ECSPE); and Mohinder Mudahar (Resident Representative to the Kyrgyz
Republic). Michal Rutkowski (ECSHD) is Sector Leader, Chris Lovelace (ECSHD) is Sector
Director, Kiyoshi Kodera (ECC08) is Country Director, and Johannes Linn (ECAVP) is Regional
Vice President.



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
ANNEX 2:  THE SOSAC POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX 3A: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - SELECTED INDICATORS TABLE
ANNEX 3B: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - KEY EXPOSURES INDICATORS
ANNEX 4:  PENSION FUND FISCAL PERFORMANCE
ANNEX 5:  ANALYSIS OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC'S PENSION SYSTEM
ANNEX 6:  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
ANNEX 7:  KYRGYZ REPUBLIC AT A GLANCE
ANNEX 8:  STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
ANNEX 9:  STATEMENT OF IFC'S COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
ANNEX 10: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING STEPS/SOSAC TEAM



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) to the Kyrgyz Republic f or the equivalent of SDR
26.7 million (US$36.5 million equivalent). The credit would be on International Development
Association (IDA) terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years. This
is one of two adjustment operations in the FY99-FY01 Country Assistance Strategy program
(dated April 14, 1998). A Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit is planned for FY00.
2.    The SOSAC supports an innovative reform of the state 'pay-as-you-go' pension system,
based largely on 'best practice' approaches now being implemented. in Latvia, Poland and
Sweden. The reform replaces the cumbersome and expensive Soviet-era pension system with a
two pillar scheme -- the first pillar gradually phasing in a system of personal accounts that are
based on 'Notional Defined Contributions (NDC),' greatly improving the link between
contributions and benefits, and the second pillar providing for well supervised options for private
pension contributions, Combined with aggressive cost cutting measures, such as a recently
enacted increase in the retirement age, the new system will greatly strengthen fiscal sustainability
and provide improved incentives to defer retirement. Further, this flexible approach paves the
way for future reforms (once the state scheme is sufficiently scaled back, and the country's
capital markets are suitably developed).
3.    The SOSAC also supports the Government in developing a well-targeted social
assistance scheme to the most poor and vulnerable, particularly as the country moves to
implement phased tariff increases for many residential utilities. The 'guaranteed minimum
income' (GMI) approach that has been developed draws a benefit poverty line that is based on
available budgetary resources and projected numbers of beneficiaries, and can flexibly
incorporate changes in household income and consumption over tirne. The quality and
accessibility of household level data will also be improved under the operation. Finally, the
SOSAC will aim to improve the effectiveness of the Government's labor market programs.
2. ECONOMIC PERFORMANC]E
4.    The Kyrgyz Republic, a small and mountainous country of 200,000 square kilometers
and a population of 4.6 million, has pursued a fast track transformation of its economy following
the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Soon after independence, the Government liberalized most
prices (except utilities), created a national currency, introduced a liberal trade regime and
eliminated most capital controls. Progress in tightening fiscal polices followed, including the
reform of budgetary procedures. The monetary policy framework and instruments were
overhauled, in parallel with a reform of the financial sector. The Kyrgyz Republic was admitted
to membership in the World Trade Organization in October 1998.



-2-
5.    The magnitude of output losses between 1992 and 1995 and economic restructuring have
had a profound impact on the Kyrgyz population. The Kyrgyz Republic's population experienced
among the lowest living standards in the former Soviet Union, and poverty worsened with the
rapid production declines that followed independence. By 1996, some 53 percent of the
population fell under the general poverty line (representing food and non-food necessities), and
16.1 percent of the population were under the extreme poverty line (food alone)  Poverty is
largely rural, and disproportionately affects large families and the disabled. Access to basic
social infrastructure is limited - only 45 percent of the population has access to running water,
and the poor have more limited access to centralized heating. Housing and utilities represent a
significant and growing proportion of household expenditure (roughly 26 percent in 1996 for all
groups, and 21 percent for the extreme poor). Child malnutrition is on the rise as well, which is
related to both low consumption and the deteriorating quality of health care services. The fall in
employment has also been notable. While officially recorded unemployment fell from 4.4
percent in 1996 to 3.2 percent in mid-1997, more reliable estimates based on International Labor
Organization standards put unemployment at roughly 10.2 percent (Household Survey, 1996).
Measured real wages are still lower than the 1992 levels, but have been relatively stable since late
1995.
6.    The resumption of growth, while a necessary precondition for improved living standards,
has not been on a sustainable footing, with some growth attributable to one-off events (the
opening of the Kumtor gold mine, favorable weather patterns and a expeditious initial
implementation of the country's public investment program, mainly foreign financed on
concessional terms). Even prior to the Russian economic crisis, the prospects for medium-term
growth have been assessed at only about 4 percent per annum. This is due to natural barriers to
trade (the Kyrgyz Republic is land locked), generally poor natural resources (its substantial
hydro-electric capacity is constrained by binding regional agreements), the sensitivity of the
economy to the price of gold, and the limited prospects for foreign direct investment. These
challenges are compounded by the low productivity of the agricultural sector and the still weak
private sector.
7.    The Russian economic crisis affected this year's and future growth, although the country
quickly defused exchange rate pressures through a combination of interventions in the foreign
exchange market and gradual depreciation of the currency. Central bank interventions in support
of the currency eroded foreign currency reserves, which were about US$150 million, or 2.3
months of imports of GNFS, in mid-September. The crisis compounded the effects on economic
performance and living standards of a number of exogenous shocks this year (natural
emergencies, a cyanide spill, and lower revenues from its two main exports, gold and
hydroelectricity). On the external front, the Kyrgyz Republic's exports to Russia, which consist
mainly of agricultural products, may be reduced. While exports to Russia account for only 20
percent of total exports, exports to Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, which comprise another 30
percent, will also likely be affected by the crisis. The country's high dependence on imported gas
and oil will add to the pressures on the external balance, which will not be offset by price
elasticity due to the lack of metering, non-payment practices and subsidized pricing. In the fiscal
area, the cost of borrowing has increased sharply. External debt service has increased with the
depreciation of the Som, and T-bill market yields doubled in immediate reaction to the Russian
moratorium and have remained high. There will also be lower tax revenues due to lower output.
This has been reflected in an increase in budget arrears on wages and pensions. Also, the budget
has not been able to fund key health expenditures fully, including primary health care and
IAnalysis of the 1997 survey data is in progress, and results are expected by December, 1998.



-3-
medicines. These fiscal difficulties have constrained the capacity of the Government to respond to
the damage caused by the floods in spring 1998, which affected about 90,000 hectares of land,
destroying 10,000 houses and damaging many others, as well as damaging key infrastructure for
irrigation, telecommunication, power, transportation, schools and health care facilities.
8.    The Government has been working towards achieving overall fiscal and external
sustainability through the implementation of an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
program between 1995 and 1997, which was complemented by a series of adjustment operations
supported by IDA (see Paragraph 41). The successor ESAF program approved by the IMF Board
last June supports further steps towards achieving fiscal and external sustainability. An IMF mid-
term review mission, in the field at the time of printing, is evaluating recent developments after
the Russia crisis. Reducing the deficit of the state pension system, which was about 1.5 percent
of GDP in 1997, will significantly contribute to the fiscal sustainability objective.
9.    In addition, the Government is developing a strategy to place utilities (i.e., electricity,
gas, telecommunications, transport and urban water) on to a sustainable financial path, which will
decrease the burden of their operating costs to the budget, alleviate the implications of
subsidizing consumption, and improve the role of prices in determining levels of consumption
and imports. The strategy would also provide incentives for reducing costs through regulation
and private sector participation. Although the Kyrgyz Government is committed to restructuring
the utilities, faster adjustment of tariffs for gas, heat, electricity, water and transport has not taken
place because of their impact on the poor. Lower growth prospects after the Russia crisis make
these administered price increases socially more difficult, however, without appropriate price
increases, these sectors will remain under-invested and will not provide sufficient infrastructure
for the rest of the economy to reach its growth potential. The SOSAC will begin to address the
social concerns by supporting Government's intentions to strengthen its current social assistance
benefit (see Paragraph 27).
3. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM STIRATEGY
A. BACKGROUND AND KEY ISSUES
The Pension System
10.   The pension system that was inherited from the former Soviet Union was largely
unchanged through 1996, and is run on a classic pay-as-you-go (PAYG) basis (current revenues
largely go to pay current obligations, with little or no funding of future liabilities). With the rapid
increases in inflation and collapse of employment, coupled with the administrative complexities
of indexation, the initial efforts of the Government focused on organizational and administrative
reforms of the system rather than fundamental shifts in policy approaches. After independence,
the Government created the Social Fund (SF) as a benefit collectio:n and payment agency under
the general supervision of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MLSP). The Social Fund
is currently responsible for administering four separate funds: the Plension Fund (PF), the Social
Insurance Fund (SIF), the Employment Fund (EF) and the Medical Insurance Fund (MIF). In
early 1998, the Social Fund was given independence from the ML'SP, obtained a seat in the
Government, and was made fully responsible for the development and execution of state pension
policy (along with the former responsibility for benefit administration). Employmnent policy
remained in the hands of the MLSP and health policy with the Min,istry of Health.



-4-
11.    The Kyrgyz pension system has been very broad in scope, with benefits that are now over
60 percent of the average wage (after implementation of a pension 'equalization' scheme in early
1998 that increased average pensions by over 20 percent) and with a variety of categorical
privileges for early retirement or earnings calculations inherited from the prior system. The
system's financial problems have been compounded by a drop in formal sector employment -
combined with the low retirement age, the ratio of contributing workers to pensioners has
dropped to approximately 1.7. Payroll contributions to the Pension Fund are 32 percent of gross
wages (24.7 percent of labor costs), which depresses employment levels and contributes to
incentives to evade. The above factors have contributed to high expenditure levels, particularly
notable for a country with the Kyrgyz Republic's young demographic profile. In 1997, the
Pension Fund deficit was Som 520.4 million (1.7 percent of GDP), with total Pension Fund
expenditures some 32 percent higher than source revenues (contributions plus mandatory
transfers from the republican budget). The Pension Fund deficit was primarily covered by
transfers from the republican budget.
12.    The Kyrgyz Republic undertook an extensive review of its pension policy, and
introduced a fundamental reform of the state system under a "Law on State Social Insurance" that
became effective on October 1, 1997. The new state pension system phases out the old earnings-
related pension and replaces it with a system of personal accounts. The 'Notional Defined
Contributions' (NDC) made on behalf of workers from 1997 on are registered in the individual
account record, and are used to finance current system liabilities (in line with the PAYG
approach). Once the new system is fully phased in, the individual's total contributions, which are
at present compounded by average wage growth, will be multiplied by a coefficient based on the
total expected post-retirement life span to calculate the monthly pension benefit. The benefit is
structured like an annuity, but is financed by current 'Pay-as-you-Go' revenues rather than by
assets such as securities. The approach is similar to a pension that would be offered by a private
insurance company, and would facilitate any eventual transfer of the system to a partially funded
basis. Latvia, Sweden and Poland are introducing similar reforms of the state pension tier. The
reform partially bypasses the retirement age debate, as there are built-in incentives to retire later
(longer working years reduce the annuity period, increase the contribution base, and therefore
provide a higher pension). The Law also gradually increases the minimum required years of
service needed to receive full pension benefit to 30 years for men and 25 years for women (from
25/20, respectively).
13.    While the reform is a step forward, there are still a number of outstanding issues. Most
pressing has been the approach to calculating the individual accounts, which has been far too
generous and which will undermine system sustainability if not corrected? Indexation of current
pensions is on an ad hoc basis, and new mechanisms need to be established and made transparent.
Disability pensions are growing rapidly, and represent a worrisome trend in Pension Fund
expenditure. In addition, the Law still includes generous provisions for calculating years of
service. Early retirement privileges have been reduced, but there are some provisions for certain
groups (some of which are financed by the state budget or the enterprise rather than the Pension
Fund). Ultimately, in the absence of any change, long-term deficits of the Pension Fund are
projected to worsen substantially (see Annex 5). The Law also originally incorporated a gradual
2 The personal accounts (i) receive 100 percent of the contribution, but should be credited with less as the system also
finances disability pensions, survivors pensions, and a minimum pension; and (b) are currently subjected to an
actuarial assessment based on roughly 11 years life expectancy regardless of age of retirement, when Natstatkom
figures register life expectancy at 16 years for men and 22 years for women at the normal retirement age of
60/55, respectively.



-5-
elimination of the basic pension, which could exacerbate poverty arnong the pensioner population
if implemented.
14.   The Social Fund also needs to improve its capacity to manage and administer pensions
effectively and efficiently. The existing accounting system does not provide an accurate picture
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenditures, which complicates system transparency and
accountability, as well as effective financial management and mediuam term planning. The Social
Fund is also in possession of significant assets in the State Property Fund, but the capacity to
manage these assets is weak. Coordination with the revenue collection efforts of the Tax
Inspectorate is also weak. There is very little capacity to undertake reliable policy analysis.
Under SOSAC, the Government is taking steps to improve Social Fund accounting, and is using
the policy modeling tool PROST as a first step towards assessing the fiscal and social impact of
proposed policy options.
The Social Assistance System
15.   Social Assistance. After independence, social assistance consisted of a number of cash
transfers such as family allowances, social pensions, and single mother benefits. The system was
both expensive and very poorly targeted. For example, some 80 percent of Kyrgyz families were
eligible to receive the family allowance for poor households, since the benefit levels were not
adjusted to prices, but were linked to the minimum wage. The berefit was granted based only on
a declaration of income, rather than a broader assessment of household means. In 1996, a new
targeted social assistance benefit (the 'Monthly Common Subsidy") was introduced to
compensate the poor for the phasing out of certain consumer subsiclies, but the capacity to
administer the new system was weak and targeting, while improved, still required refinement.
16.   In 1996, with the assistance of IDA's Social Safety Net Project (FY94), the Government
worked to design, set up, and operate fifteen model offices to test revised methods of
interviewing claimants for the social assistance benefit, and to prepare a policy approach that
would improve the utilization of social assistance resources to address the needs of the most poor.
The pilots were evaluated, and targeting was found to be improved even as program costs were
reduced. Replication of the new means testing approaches to offices throughout the country
began in 1997. The Project also supported extensive technical assistance and training to the
social assistance administration, to help ensure that the new standards and procedures would be
applied effectively. Drawing on the lessons learned, a new "Law on State Benefits" was
developed and became effective in May 1998. The new act introduced revised standards and
procedures for calculating and disbursing a Unified Monthly Benef.it (UMB) for low income
families, and some special categorical Monthly Social Benefits. The new UMB provides an
excellent basis for a simplified and unified social assistance policy. It aims to guarantee a
minimum income under means testing, and is adjusted annually in line with an assessment of
needs and available fiscal resources. Approximately 1 percent of GDP will be allocated to
provide benefits to approximately 700,000 individuals in 1998, down from 1.2 million in 1996.
17.   In September 1998, a Social Safety Net Project consultant team evaluated the
administrative effectiveness of the new system, and highlighted a number of achievements,
including the implementation of clear eligibility criteria, improvedt client friendliness such as ease
of application and protection of confidentiality, the thorough investigation of applications
including home visits, and better staff competency. Preliminary issues include the high level of
benefits paid in kind (40 to 60 percent in some rural areas), and the availability and quality of



-6-
program administrative data to be used for program monitoring. An assessment of the
effectiveness of the targeting system at reaching the poor will begin early in 1999.
18.   Poverty Monitoring. Until 1996, the National Statistical Committee (Natstatkom)
measured household living standards through the mechanism of the Soviet-era Household Budget
Survey, which was based on quota sampling that could not be extrapolated to the national
population. With the support of the Social Safety Net Project, this survey was replaced with a
new instrument in the spring of 1996. The Kyrgyz Poverty Monitoring Survey is a multi-topic
household survey along the lines of the Living Standards Measurement Surveys, and provides
information on household consumption, income, and behavior based on probability sampling with
a limited household set. Three surveys based on the new approach have been conducted, and a
fourth is underway. Analysis of the 1996 survey results has been completed, and the 1997
results are under review. Under the SOSAC program, Natstatkom has developed an open data
access policy, has been provided with a budget allocation that will ensure the sustainability of the
current sample size over the Credit period, and has been addressing a range of technical issues
associated with the new data management and analytical approaches.
The Labor Market
19.   The economically active population in the Kyrgyz Republic consists of roughly 1.8
million people, most of whom are employed by small enterprises or are self-employed. Many of
those outside of the official employment statistics are agricultural workers and subsistence
farmers. Unemployment as measured by the household survey has, not surprisingly as a result of
the economic and social transition, increased from 6.3 percent in 1993 to 10.2 percent in 1996,
with rural areas disproportionately affected.
20.   The Employment Fund relies on a nominal 2 percent payroll contribution for its revenues,
though actual revenues are allocated by the Social Fund based on a determination of its actual
revenues and funding priorities. The Employment Fund finances unemployment benefits and a
variety of active labor market expenditures, including vocational training, social jobs,
microcredits, and small and medium enterprise support. Administrative costs are high (14.5
percent of the 1998 budget), and the Government wants to lower these to a more acceptable level.
21.   The Government's strategy to address unemployment is reflected in its 1998 "Emgek"
employment creation program, which aims to reduce reliance on unemployment benefits by 2005,
while simultaneously increasing the emphasis on active labor market programs to stimulate
employment. A new Employment Law was signed by the President and became effective in July
1998. The Law moves the unemployment benefit system to an insurance basis (only contributors
are eligible for benefit), while restricting eligibility for repeat periods of unemployment and
delinking the benefit amount from the minimum wage. The Employment Fund's annual
programs will now be reviewed by a Tripartite Board consisting of equal representation by the
Government, employer organizations, and trade unions. The new law should foster social
consensus on labor policy. A March 1998 assessment of the administrative capacity of the
Employment Fund under the FY94 Social Safety Net Project outlined the administrative
weaknesses of the Employment Fund, and its conclusions suggest that the Fund, in its current
state, is unlikely to be able to develop, implement and monitor effective job creation programs. It
will be difficult to find economic gains through active labor market schemes that will justify the
tax burden and program costs. The current Employment Fund program needs to be restructured
to emphasize effective administration of a small, focused set of country-appropriate activities
within the Fund's limited resources.



-7-
B. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
The Pension System
22.   The SOSAC pension strategy supports (i) shorter term deficit reduction measures; and (ii)
medium term pension system reform supportive of longer term fiscal sustainability and payroll
contribution reductions. The Asian Development Bank is supporting a parallel technical
assistance operation that supports the development of a framework for the establishment of
private pension funds and their supervision. Over the medium term, the new system of personal
accounts should render the Government well placed to make a transition to a partially funded
system (i.e., through mandatory contributions to privately managed accounts), should it so
determine, once system deficits are under control, the high payroll contribution rates are reduced,
and capital markets are sufficiently robust. The impact of the entire package of pension reform
measures supported by the SOSAC and outlined below is expected to be consequential if
implemented as agreed, and are projected to move the system from its current chronic deficits to a
rough balance by 2001, with longer term savings projected to average roughly 2.0 percent of
GDP by 2025 (see Annex 5).
23.   Retirement Age Increase. In order to improve financial position of the Pension Fund in
the short run, and to achieve its fiscal sustainability in the longer run, the Kyrgyz Government
introduced a significant amendment to the Pension Law on June 23, 1998 under the SOSAC
program. The proposed measures were revised and passed by the Kyrgyz Parliament on June 30,
1998. The amendment gradually increases the retirement age by four months per year beginning
January 1, 1999, until the retirement age increases by a total of three years for men and women.3
It also cuts payments to working pensioners by 50 percent in cases where they earn more than the
average wage, and moves pension payment obligations from the current to the prior month in line
with common practice. Other measures (i.e., cuts in non-contributory earnings periods used for
pension calculations such as time spent in university) were not approved by Parliament.
24.   Other Key Reform Elements. Based on policy analysis and fiscal projections that have
been undertaken using the PROST pension policy model, as well as budgetary and institutional
analysis, the SOSAC pension strategy also supports the following measures:
i. no indexation of pensions in 1999-2000, particularly given the large increases in
pensions across the board under the 1998 'pension equalization' policies; and
transfers from the Republican budget for Pension Fund deficit financing kept no
higher than Som 300 million in 1999 (roughly 0.7 percent of currently projected
GDP) and targeted at Som 150 million in 2000 (roughly 0.3 percent of currently
GDP);
ii. new affordable and transparent indexation mechanisrn defined for both pensions
being paid and the personal account savings (effective as of beginning of 2001) that
will maintain the value of contributions and savings;
3 The Govermnent's June 23, 1998 amendment supports an increase in the retirement age of six months per year. This
issue is under review by the Constitutional Court.



-8-
iii. transfer of disability certification to the Social Fund, and assessment of certification
procedures that currently date from 1962, so that the number -of new disability
retirees is kept roughly at the level of flow recorded during the last decade;
iv. elimination to the extent possible of the non-contributory earnings periods for
pensions and early retirement privileges, with any remaining privileges financed by
the state budget; and
v. reduction of Social Fund in-kind collections (i.e., of grain and sugar), and
requirement that all benefits be paid in cash.
25.   Strengthening the New Pension Formula.    The new pension formula provides an
excellent basis for the transition to the new system, but will require some modifications under the
SOSAC program in order to better meet the reform objectives. Because of the way certain
variables were being calculated and applied by the Social Fund, liabilities accruing under the
personal accounts were much too high, and were inequitable and unsustainable. Over the medium
term, contributors would have received a substantial and unfunded return on their accounts that
would bear little relationship to a fair valuation of their contributions. Further, the formula was
designed to phase out the minimum pension altogether, which could exacerbate poverty among
the pensioner population. Therefore, in addition to an increase in the retirement age, the SOSAC
supports the following measures to strengthen the formula:
i. sets the 'k coefficient' for calculating pensions under the personal accounts to an
actuarially fair level by creating a table for levels at each age of retirement that
assume a more reliable calculation of life expectancy;
ii. divides the payroll pension contribution so that it is appropriately credited to each
personal NDC account (rather than allocating 100 percent of each person's
contribution to the account), using the rest of the contribution to finance minimum
pension, disability and survivor's pensions; and
iii. develops a minimum pension mechanism to keep pensioners out of poverty, instead
of eliminating the minimum pension.
26.   Institutional Development.   The SOSAC program supports the move of Social Fund
accounts to International Accounting Standards, a critical step given the economic importance of
the Fund. A technical assistance and training program has been developed and will begin
implementation under the Credit (see Paragraph 35). The program also supports the development
of a plan for independent management of the Social Fund's financial assets, to provide it with
professional expertise in managing its share portfolio.  The SOSAC supports Social Fund
coordination with the Tax Inspectorate through the implementation of a plan to introduce one
joint taxpayer identification number (each agency currently has a separate registration system).
Finally, the program supports a thorough review of disability certification procedures and
development of a plan for improving those procedures.
The Social Assistance System
27.   The Government is planning to move toward economic pricing for rent, electricity, gas,
heating, and water, but the structure and timing of the longer term tariff strategy is still under
development. Targeted partial compensation will be provided for the poorest. The Government



-9-
will provide the targeted assistance through the current benefit scheme in the initial phase, and
will undertake a comprehensive review of the whole utility sector and associated compensation
issues in order not to create a whole new system of social welfare provisions and associated
administration. This review would be supported under the proposed FY99 Consolidated
Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC). A new formula taking into account the price increases
only and minimizing the complexity of implementation has therefore been developed under the
SOSAC program, and will be applied and evaluated in 1999. The proposed approach is simple,
flexible, and can easily accommodate anywhere from zero to full compensation to the poor for the
increases in tariff rates. The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection has also been provided with
a policy modeling tool that can be utilized to calculate a range of compensation options,
depending on the sequence and level of utility price increases and the available budget. A
follow-up social assistance impact assessment on the effectiveness of the new means testing
approach in reaching the poor will also be undertaken in 1999 under the SOSAC. This
assessment would build on the results of the improved Household Survey and the September
1998 administrative assessment of the new system (see Paragraph 17).
The Labor Market
28.   The Government has identified a wide range of potential active labor market programs,
from retraining to microcredits, but cannot implement these owing to limited resources. With the
new Employment Law now in place, it will be particularly important to ensure that sufficient
funds are available for benefit payment given the adjustment and associated layoffs that is still
occurring in the enterprise sector, and the possibility of future enterprise closures. Under the
SOSAC, active labor market program expenditure will be capped to avoid arrears in
unemployment benefit payment. The SOSAC will support a review of the overall portfolio of
active labor market programs, with a new strategy developed and programs deemed not to be
effective on the basis of an impact assessment to be eliminated.
4. THE PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
29.   The proposed SOSAC is consistent with, and included in, the Bank Group's assistance
strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic, as outlined in the IBRD, IDA and IFC Joint Country Assistance
Strategy Memorandum dated April 14, 1998 (Report 17641-KG). The broad thrust of this
strategy is to establish long-term sustainable growth to reduce poverty, and to provide the
Government with the means necessary for improving basic human services and institutional
capacity and to improve Government finances. The CAS identifies social protection and pension
reform as a central part of that strategy. The objectives of the SOSAC, which are consistent with
the Government's overall reform program, are to: (1) establish a fiscally sustainable pension
scheme that will provide a stronger linkage between contributions and benefits, while providing a
minimum level of guaranteed support to prevent poverty; (2) improve the effectiveness of labor
market interventions under conditions of high unemployment; and (3) implement effective, well-
targeted and fiscally sustainable programs to alleviate poverty.
30.   The Kyrgyz Republic has operated under a high case lending scenario since it became a
member of the World Bank Group in 1992. The 1998 CAS envisages a high case lending
program of US$185 million from FY99-0 1, of which about 40 percent is adjustment lending. The



-10-
country's public finances are not sufficiently strong to borrow on IBRD terms, which will require
sustained GDP growth, improved Government finances, consolidation of structural reforms, and
increases in foreign direct investment.
31.   The SOSAC program is also consistent with prior and current Bank involvement in the
country. In particular, the FY94 Social Safety Net Project supports the improvement,
development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Government's social assistance
policy in order to help ensure that its scarce social assistance resources are targeted effectively to
the most vulnerable groups. The SOSAC design benefits from the analysis of household survey
research under a May 30, 1995 Poverty Assessment and ongoing work on an FY99 Poverty Note
Update and an FY99 Fiscal Sustainability Study.
B. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
32.   The proposed SOSAC Credit is SDR 26.7 million (US$36.5 million equivalent). The
Credit would be released in two tranches: SDR 13.35 million equivalent upon effectiveness, and
SDR 13.35 million equivalent to be released upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions as
outlined below, anticipated by the end of calendar year 1999.
33.   In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement
Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996),
disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and there will therefore be no procurement
requirements. Disbursements of the Credit will be subject to a standard negative list of ineligible
goods and countries of origin. Disbursements will be made by payments to a deposit account of
the Ministry of Finance in the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic. If after deposit in this
account, the Credit proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, the International Development
Association (IDA) will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes; or (b) return that amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although IDA will not routinely require an audit of
the deposit account, it reserves the right to require an audit by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. In such a case, audit reports would be submitted to IDA no more than six months after the
date of IDA's request. The expected closing date of the proposed Credit is June 30, 2000.
C. TRANCHE CONDITIONALITY
34.   The Government's program of institutional and policy reforms is presented in the "Letter
of Sector Development Policy" included as Annex 1. It is also presented in the policy matrix in
Annex 2. The proposed Credit supports the effective implementation of the Government's social
sector reform program.
a. Pre-Board Conditions, which have been fully met:
i. Submission of a letter to the Association agreeing to provide financing from Government
funds for the agreed technical assistance program in the event that satisfactory bilateral or
multilateral sources of finance are not available in the amounts or time required.
ii. Employment Fund expenditure on pro-active employment programs is no greater than 35
percent of all Employment Fund expenditure in the 1999 Employment Fund budget, and
after ensuring that the level and financing of unemployment benefit payments are set to
avoid arrears.



-11-
iii. Issuance of a Government decree providing that partial compensation to assist the poor
for the planned housing and utility price increases is integrated with the Unified Monthly
Benefit (as defined in the "Law on State Benefits" of March 5, 1998) through end-1999.
iv. Submission of evidence satisfactory to the Association that a retirement age increase of a
minimum of four months per year as compared with the legal retirement age of January 1,
1998, under a program providing for an overall increase in the said retirement age of
three years, is envisioned to be implemented no later than Jatnuary 1, 1999 under current
legislation.
v. Submission to IDA of a draft budget for 1999 with non-mandatory transfers from the
state budget to the Pension Fund no higher than Som 300 million, and with no pension
indexation for the year.
vi. Issuance of a Govermment Decision (Reshenie ') by the Supervisory Council of the Social
Fund (as defined in the April 15, 1998 Decree No. 197 "On the Establishment of the
Supervisory Council of the Social Fund") with the necessary pension formula
adjustments, so as to include an actuarially fair 'k coefficient' for personal accounts, an
appropriate minimum pension, and appropriate crediting of payroll contribution for
pensions to personal accounts.
vii. Issuance of a Government decree transferring responsibility, for disability certification for
pensions from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection ito the Social Fund
viii. Submission by Government to IDA of an approved plan acceptable to IDA providing for
a transition from the Pension Fund's and Employment Fund's current accounting
practices to International Accounting Standards
ix. Submission to IDA by the Social Fund of a satisfactory analysis of options (utilizing its
pension policy model) to attain fiscal sustainability of the state pension system (including
the minimum possible non-mandatory subsidy from the state treasury to the Pension
Fund) in 2001 and beyond.
b. Second Tranche Release Conditions:
i. The Borrower has revised its active labor market programs, as set forth in the
Employment Fund budget for 1999, in a manner satisfactoiy to the Association and in
such a way that: (i) all said programs found to be ineffective, on the basis of an impact
assessment satisfactory to the Association, have not been included in the Employment
Fund budget plan for 2000; and (ii) the appropriations for active labor market programs
are not higher than 35 percent of all budgeted expenditures in the Employment Fund's
budget plan for 2000.
ii. The Borrower has completed the first phase of an assessment, satisfactory to the
Association, of: (i) the adequacy of the new means testing formula, set forth in the
Borrower's Law on State Benefits, with respect to household income and consumption in
urban and rural areas; and (ii) the effectiveness of the targe ting mechanism under the
Unified Monthly Benefit system, including the identification of alternative approaches
and action plans for improving the effectiveness of said targeting mechanism.



-12-
iii. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that: (i) the
retirement age has been increased by at least four months by comparison with the
corresponding level on January 1, 1998; and (ii) legal measures, satisfactory to the
Association, continue to provide for the annual increase of the retirement age of at least
four months, so that the retirement age increases by a total of three years.
iv. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that the expected
non-mandatory budgetary transfers to the Pension Fund, for 1999, amount to less than
Som 300 million.
v. The Borrower has taken satisfactory measures providing for changes to the pension
formula agreed with the Association, including actuarially fair k coefficient for personal
accounts, appropriate minimum pension, and appropriate crediting of payroll contribution
for pensions to personal accounts.
vi. The Borrower has submitted to the Association: (i) a satisfactory assessment of disability
certification procedures; and (ii) a satisfactory action plan for the improvement of said
procedures.
vii. The Borrower's Government has submitted to the Borrower's Parliament a draft law,
satisfactory to the Association, providing for: (i) an appropriate mechanism for pension
indexation; (ii) the reduction of non-contributory earnings periods for pensions and early
retirement privileges; and (iii) the principle that any remaining privileges be financed
under the Borrower's budget.
viii. The Borrower has: (i) provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that the Pension
Fund and the Employment Fund have completed the preparation of documents for a
tender for the implementation of a program aimed at assisting said Funds in their
transition from their current accounting practices to international accounting standards;
and (ii) has submitted to the Association a satisfactory audit, prepared by an auditor
acceptable to the Association, of the accounts of the Pension Fund and the Employment
Fund for 1998.
ix. The Borrower has submitted to the Association a satisfactory assessment of the fiscal and
social impact of pension policy options, on the basis of a pension policy model
satisfactory to the Association, including the option of a gradual transition to partial
funding of the pension system through mandatory private accounts for system
contributors.
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ARRANGEMENTS
35.   A program of critical technical assistance has been agreed with the Government (Annex
6). The Government is in the process of firming up arrangements for donor financing, however,
to ensure timely provision of such funds, the Government has agreed that in the event grant
finance is not available in accordance with the agree timetable, it will finance the requisite
technical assistance from its own funds. The EU-Tacis program is also providing complementary
support to improve Social Fund accounting in FY99-00.



-13-
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
36.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD
4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been rated in category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS
37.   Benefits.     The Credit supports a pension reform program that significantly scales
back extensive entitlements, while strengthening the linkage between benefits and contributions
and improving individual incentives to stay in the labor force. If successfully implemented, the
program is expected to result in reductions in the payroll contribution rate (roughly 7 percent by
2004), alleviating the significant burden on enterprises and on employment, and opening the way
for a transition to a partially funded system. Reforms in the social assistance system will provide
interim compensation to the poor for utility tariff increases, and the program will attempt to
assess the effectiveness of the new social assistance policy to provide a basis for possible
adjustments to improve targeting to those most in need. The program will also develop a Kyrgyz
specific labor market strategy to address changes that are occunring as a result of the economic
transition.
38.   Risks.        The primary risk to this program is thai; policy reversals (particularly
with regard to the elimination of benefit entitlements) could undermine the medium term fiscal
sustainability of the pension system. Proximity to the parliamentary and presidential elections
scheduled for 2000 add further complexity to the situation. The Government has demonstrated
commitment to effective policy reformn in the sector, and is mitifgating this risk with an aggressive
public information campaign. Further, it is developing policy rmodeling instruments with IDA
support that will allow it to present rapid and reliable assessmeints to key decision-makers on the
fiscal impact of proposed policy options. The Bank Group is working across sectors to ensure an
integrated approach to utility pricing issues and social compensation schemes.
39.   Other risks include lower than expected collections ancd weak institutional capacity within
the Social Fund. The SOSAC projections attempt to account for the Social Fund's weak
collection base, but worse than expected performance (i.e., due to the type of natural disasters that
hit the country in 1998) would reduce the fiscal gains. To mitigate this risk, the Social Fund is
undertaking an aggressive contributor registration drive and has agreed on a comprehensive plan
of coordination with the Tax Inspectorate. The individual accounts that form the framework for
the innovative NDC reform are being implemented within the framework of an inefficient
organization and administration. To date, the individual accounts have been handled through
some limited automation support provided by EU-Tacis, but the system will face strain from the
NDC reform. The SOSAC package includes support for a priority subset of technical assistance
to redress this issue, and the Association will conduct intensive supervision of the operation. The
Government plans to develop and implement a Social Fund business and automation plan to
improve the efficiency, transparency, effectiveness, and client orientation of the Social Fund
organization and administration. Donor financing will be sought, and IDA will facilitate this
effort.
40.   Finally, there is a need to ensure consistent policy advice among the various donors
providing support to the sector. This risk is being mitigated by open and frequent dialogue
among concerned parties.



-14-
G.    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
41.   The Government successfully implemented a high case lending program during FY96-
FY98, with strong overall policy performance except with respect to land registration and the
introduction of complete cost recovery for utilities). A high case lending scenario was also
approved for the FY99-01 CAS, now under implementation (Report 17641-KG, April 14, 1998).
The Government has implemented structural measures under five adjustment operations that have
supported, inter alia, privatization and enterprise reform, agricultural privatization, financial
sector reform, and public sector resource management. Implementation of investment projects
has been good, though institutional capacity remains weak, the development of which is a
centerpiece current country assistance strategy. The Government and the Bank have initiated
bimonthly joint portfolio reviews. Five projects are in various stages of preparation. IFC's
involvement in the Kyrgyz Republic has focused on investments that are anticipated to have an
immediate impact on recovery, and its current strategy is to focus on capital market development,
support to small and medium enterprises, development of the mining sector, development of
private sector infrastructure, and agribusiness and post-privatization restructuring. The Kyrgyz
Republic has recently been included among the countries in the 'Extending EFC's Reach' (EIR)
initiative. The Foreign Investment Advisory Service has also contributed to the development of
an environment conducive to foreign investment. MIGA has insured two projects to date, has a
number or outstanding applications for additional projects, and is cooperating with the Bank and
EFC on providing capacity building training in foreign investment.
5.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
42.    The Kyrgyz Republic is in the first year of its second ESAF program. IDA has
coordinated work on pensions and social assistance reform with the Fund team.
43.   The Government has requested that IDA and the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
coordinate support for pension reform. The SOSAC focuses on strengthening the fiscal
sustainability of the state pension system and the ADB is assisting the Government to develop a
strategy to move to system funding and to develop effective supervisory mechanisms for
voluntary private pensions. ADB is financing a technical assistance grant to conduct analytical
work on longer-term reform options, with the possibility of a follow-on adjustment operation.
The ADB team has just initiated its work with specialists in capital market development, the
insurance industry, and pension administration reviewing options for supervising private pensions
and for mandatory funding arrangements with the Government.
44.   The Government of Japan provided substantial donor resources to prepare this Credit
under a PHRD Grant. The EU Tacis program has provided the Social Fund with some
institutional support, particularly in the areas of accounting and automation. This program is
expected to continue, most notably through the provision of additional support on Social Fund
accounting and financial management. IDA has is working in close cooperation with Tacis.
Bilateral donor support has been provided to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection by the
German and U.S. governments, supporting, respectively, labor market development and sector
program budgeting.



-15-
6.    RECOMMENDATIO:N
45.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve i.t.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
November 5, 1998
Attachments



Annex 1
Page 1 of 12
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfenson
President
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfenson:
1.    The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic considers the Social Sector Adjustment Credit,
which covers social assistance, the labor market, and the pensionl system, to be one of the top
priority programs being implemented in the country. It hopes that the Credit of the World Bank
will provide substantial assistance in deepening the country's social sector reforms and create the
necessary preconditions for facilitating the Government's potential to improve the Social Fund's
financial solvency. It also believes that the Credit program will help to improve the targeting of
assistance to the most low paid population strata and will develop more effective approaches to
provide assistance to the unemployed.
2.    The analysis of the macroeconomic situation in the Republic shows that over the last five
years enormous work had been done to reform both in the entire economy and the social sector.
Important activities have been undertaken to transfer the economy to one based on market
relations. A legal basis has been created for the development of market relations. At present, as
a result of the economic reforms a distinct easing of the crisis phenomena is to be observed. The
achievement of financial stabilization is becoming apparent. The results of the economy's
operation in 1997 and the first six months of 1998 testify to the beginnings of economic
stabilization.
3.    Currently, the economic situation in the Republic is characterized by ongoing growth
over the last two years and macroeconomic improvements. Thus, the inflation level has dropped
more than twice: from 34 percent in 1996 to 15 percent in 1997. According to the National
Statistics Committee's data, the GDP growth rates for the given period reached 109.9 percent, as
against 106.2 percent under the indicative plan. The budget deficit equaled 4.6 percent of GDP,
which is 1 percent less than in 1996. The financial stability of the Social Fund and the targeted
provision of the social assistance have had a significant impact on stabilization and balancing of
the public budget. Their further restructuring are envisaged by the given project.
4.    However, the difficult social outcomes of the economic crisis of 1991-1995 could not
have been significantly alleviated by the positive changes in the economy in the last eighteen
months. These positive changes could not have been expected to provide an immediate short
term impact - they were not enough to raise substantially the living standards of the population
and to solve the problems of the whole social sector. The adjustment of the population to the new
way of life is still very difficult. One of the negative factors is the growing inequality of the
distribution of income in the country. The poverty level remains high. According to the poverty



Annex 1
Page 2 of 12
survey carried out by the National Statistics Committee within the World Bank Social Safety Net
Project, over 50 per cent of the population are under the poverty line.
5.    In the conditions of the transition to market relations, with emergence of new forms of
property, the current social security system (social guarantees) has become less effective and not
as financially stable. Social policy formation is a complex process closely tied to economic
development and thus dependent on it. The solution of many problems that have arisen in the
social sphere also depends on the effective allocation of scarce available financial resources, and
this need is identified in the overall economic policy of the Government.
6.    Despite these difficulties, the Government of the Republic is undertaking intensive
measures on social sector reform and the adaptation of the sector to the market conditions.
Today, the fundamentals of the legislative basis for the social sector reforming have been
developed. Laws on state pension insurance, employment, state benefits and a number of
regulations on their enforcement have been adopted. In accordance with the world practice, the
social welfare system was explicitly split into two institutionally independent systems with
different sources of financing: the social assistance system and the social insurance system.
Social Assistance
7.    The present social situation is characterized by the fact that the majority of population,
mainly its vulnerable groups, went within a short period from being relatively well to do to
finding themselves in poverty. However, basic approaches to improve the system of public
support to the population in the transition period include eliminating the equalized support to the
entire population, eliminating dependency, and replacing the cumbersome system of social
payments by a simple and clear scheme.
8.    Taking into account the limited resources of the Republic, the Government is moving
towards the establishment of a social security system based on principles of rendering the targeted
assistance to the poorest groups of population who have income below the subsistence minimum,
as well as to the disabled and the unemployed. Through 1995, the social benefits were paid in
most cases without regard to the average per capita family income. Currently, a unified monthly
benefit to families and individuals with low incomes has been introduced in the Republic. We
have moved away from the principle of comprehensiveness in granting benefits to one that allows
us to provide public assistance to the poorest strata of the population. At present, low income
benefits are granted depending on need.
9.    In 1998, according to the new Law on State Benefits, a new notion of the minimal
government guaranteed consumption rate was introduced, which is the basic indicator for
determining social benefit. Thus, the social payments were no longer tied to the minimum wage,
which, in its turn, is tied to the minimum consumption budget. As a result of the policy of
targeted public support, a significant cut in the number of beneficiaries was observed. In 1995,
they made up 1.23 million, in 1996 they fell to 829,800, they dropped again in 1997 to 745,100,
and in the first six months of 1998 they totaled 705,800. At present, however, despite the certain
achievements in this sector, the budgeted expenditures on social security of the population,
including the provision of various allowances to certain categories, remain quite substantial. In
these conditions, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic is undertaking additional measures in
order to cut them.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 12
10.   Within the framework of international cooperation, the Republic is obtaining assistance
in restructuring of the social security system. Thus, the Social Safety Net Project financed by the
World Bank has provided assistance to improve the organization of the social protection centers,
train their specialists, computerize the benefit system, supply the statistical centers with
equipment and technology, identify the need for granting a social benefit, and related areas. The
Government of the Republic is taking the most decisive measures for fighting poverty in the
country. The President of the Republic has declared 1998 the year of poverty alleviation. The
National Program on Poverty Alleviation is one of the main normative documents that will pull
together the activities in social protection of the population being carried out in different
directions. The large numbers of families with low incomes and the scarce financial potential of
the Government means that today, assistance can be rendered not to all the needy but only to the
most destitute.
11.   In order to determine the Unified Monthly Benefit, it is necessary to assess the total
household income, including all household assets. Under the framework of the SOSAC program,
the Government is elaborating a mechanism for granting housirng benefits to the population
groups with low incomes through the existing Unified Monthly Benefit, in order to take into
account the increased expenditures faced by the poor for payment for housing and utilities. This
interim approach will be applied through end-1999. During 1999, we will explore longer term
options for compensating the poor for increased tariffs. At present, to determine the total family
income all assets of citizens are taken into account except the cattle that is the private property of
individuals. The Government, with the assistance of the World, Bank consultants, is working on a
solution to the issue of recording the income received by individuals from cattle breeding. Under
the second tranche of the operation, we will begin to assess the overall effectiveness of our
means-testing mechanism for the Unified Monthly Benefit.
National Statistics Committee (poverty survey)
12.   The National Statistics Committee, within the framework of the World Bank Social
Safety Net Project, carries out selective examinations of the faimily budgets. This allows the
determination under international standards of the following indicators: poverty features, poverty
depth, and the degree of the population poverty depending on economic, demographic and social
conditions. The research provides a picture of the unemployment level in the Republic.
13.   In view of the World Bank's recommendations, the Plan for examination of family
budgets has been modified. It was decided to merge two analytical approaches: one
systematically carried out by the National Statistics Committee and one recommended by the
World Bank component of the poverty survey. In the future, the combined method of
examination of households will be used. The analysis will cover the issues related to the public
benefits paid to poor families. In the annual plans, it is envisaged to identify the possibility of
estimating the number of beneficiaries and the target groups.
14.   The National Statistics Committee has defined a data access policy taking into account
the recommendations and suggestions of the World Bank appiaisal mission. The National
Statistics Committee, within the framework of the SOSAC program, is carrying out a range of
activities to provide open access to household survey data to users in order to encourage
Government and independent researchers in the promotion of social policy programs. The
Government will present a 1999 and 2000 budget to Parliament with an allocation of funds
sufficient for keeping the current number of households in the sample as well as for expanding
their network.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 12
2.    Pension Reform
15.   The Kyrgyz Republic faced serious problems with the pension system with the transition
to market economy conditions, the collapse of the state, and changes in the economic, social and
psychological traditions. In the new environment, the post-Soviet pension system with its
institutional and financial approach could not provide full pension payments, ensure the
collection of insurance fees, and control their use. With the overall decline in the economy by 50
percent when compared to 1991 and the transfer of almost half of the contribution payers to the
informal sector, pension commitments remained the same and required the application of indices.
In 1991, by the replacement rate calculation the average pension made up 83 percent of the
average wage which was very burdensome for the society.
16.   The budget deficit grew with every passing year. In 1993, the Pension Fund of the
Kyrgyz Republic had a positive financial balance of 0.7 percent of GDP, in 1994 it experienced a
deficit of 0.7 percent of GDP, in 1995 a deficit of 1.0 percent of GDP, and in 1996, a deficit of
1.6 percent of GDP. At the same time, the average pension significantly dropped behind the
minimum consumer budget for a pensioner from 145 percent in 1991 to 52 percent in 1994, and
poverty among pensioners increased.
17.   Due to these reasons, pension system reform in the Kyrgyz Republic was vitally needed
and was carried out in two main directions:
* institutional restructuring of the entire public social insurance system; and
* establishment of the legal basis for the pension system for functioning in new economic
and social conditions.
The following has been done in the first direction:
*  the systems of social assistance and social insurance have been clearly split, since they
have principal differences in financial resources and benefit award methods; and
*  a unified self-managed system of pension insurance has been established by means of
merging the separate pension services, the handling of contribution collections, and the
calculation, delivery and payments of pensions.
In the second direction, the following laws have been drafted and adopted:
*  The Law "On Public Social Insurance" which has become the core for the whole legal
basis of the social insurance system; and
*  The Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On Public Pension Social Insurance" based on the
insurance principles for awarding state pensions.
18.   In accordance with the newly adopted pension law, and for the transition period from an
earnings-based pension system to a contribution-based pension system, a method which provides
for the following three pension components has been adopted for the pension calculation:



Annex 1
Page5 of12
*  basic one, which is one of the approaches of state support in the transition period and
guarantees a minimum pension payment. As the insurance pension component grows,
the current nominal value of the basic part will be allowed to erode with inflation to 12
percent of the average wage, and then will be adjusted accordingly each year;
* first insurance, calculated for the period prior to the introduction of the personified
recording (through 1996) and which takes into account the average income for any five
consecutive years and the entire previous length of insurance; and
* second insurance, calculated for the period after the introduction of the personified
recording (from Januaryl, 1996) and which takes into account the part of the
accumulated amount of insurance fees and the average life length of a pensioner after the
retirement.
19.   This approach to the calculation will be in effect for the transition period (25-30 years)
and will allow a smooth transfer of all granted pensions to the insurance basis, taking into account
the whole length of service, salary (income) and accumulated insurance fees after the opening of
the personal insurance accounts. According to the above law, the required length of insurance for
eligibility to full pension has been increased by 5 years (for men not less than 30 years, women -
not less than 25 years), with the increase introduced one year annually through 2002.
20.   The provisions of the new pension law allow a sharp clt in the number of privileged
pensioners (by 30,000 people by the year 2000), or almost by one third of the total number of
privileged pensioners. In the current pension law, privileged pensions are no longer envisaged at
the cost of social insurance funds to the following categories:
*  those enlisted in enterprises under List No. 2 and individuals equivalent to them (cotton-
growers, tobacco-growers, milkmaids, bus drivers) whose previous pension age was 5
years less than the established one;
* the unemployed (it had been possible to grant a pension one year earlier);
* participants of the Great Patriotic war (practically all of them have reached the
established pension age);
* participants of the Chernobyl accident liquidation; and
* pensions for the length of service for aviation employees and theater artists.
21.   Pensions granting under List No. I as envisaged by the law are also decreasing due to the
fact that the Republic does not have big factories with a large number of especially strenuous and
hazardous professions such as chemical, metallurgical, etc., except for mining. In the past, such
pensions were granted according to the record worked in cenbtal regions of the USSR. Since
1992, the length of service in other CIS republics is not included into the work record during
pension calculation.
22.    For political reasons, privileged pensions partially rernain for persons engaged on
underground works with hard labor conditions and mothers having 5 and more children. There
were attempts to eliminate privileges that allow certain categories of citizens to obtain earnings



Annex 1
Page 6 of 12
credits without contributions (i.e., those in higher education) in proposed amendments to the
Pension Law presented to Parliament in May 1998. The Parliament did not agree with these
amendments and removed them. We will continue to review the system of privileges and present
a legislation draft again in early 1999 aimed at scaling back such non-contributory earnings
periods as well as early retirement privileges. Thus, financing of the mentioned public budget
items will be cut.
23.   The need for the solution of the Pension Fund's financial stability problems and
implementation of the insurance principle for granting pensions demanded the introduction of
personal records for employers and employees covered by pension insurance, and the creation of
personal insurance accounts for contributing individuals from January 1, 1996. As of September
1, 1998, 980,000 insurance fee payers or 56.0 percent of the total population employed in the
formal and informal economy sectors have been registered. Out of the registered number,
867,000 people have received the social protection certificates. In general, the country's pension
system reform, with its transition to personal accounts, will provide a solid basis, drawn from the
latest 'best practice' approaches to state pension provision, for ensuring that:
(a) Individual pension benefits will be linked directly with individual contributions;
(b) the system will be fiscally sustainable; and
(c) pensioners will be secured from poverty.
24.   As a result of the joint work of the Social Fund and the World Bank experts under the
SOSAC program in September of this year, an agreement was reached on deepening the pension
reform by introduction of changes to the pension formula and redistribution of insurance
contributions to personal pension accounts of citizens into personal and solidarity components.
T he pension formula modification provides for the annual confirmation of the actuarial
coefficient depending on the age of retirement and the projected future length of pension life. The
indicator is determined using an average for men and women. For 1999, the coefficient will be
introduced according to the following values to be approved by the Government of the Republic:
K COEFFICIENT FOR PENSION CALCULATIONS
Age of         Life       K coefficient    Age of          Life       K coefficient
retirement    expectancy    In percent     retirement     expectancy    In percent
(a)          (=l/a)                        (a)           (=l/a)
45           27.7            4             58            18.1            6
46           26.9            4             59            17.5            6
47           26.1            4             60            16.8            6
48           25.4            4             61            16.2            6
49           24.6            4             62            15.5            7
50           23.8            4             63            14.8            7
51           23.1            4             64            14.3            7
52           22.4            5             65            13.8            7
53           21.6            5             66            13.3            8
54           20.7            5             67            12.6            8
55           20.0            5             68            12.1            8
56           19.4            5             69            11.5            9
57            18.8           5             70            11.0            9



Annex 1
Page 7 of 12
25.   The adopted measures are necessary for reaching fiscal sustainability the pension system
in the future and will allow the possibility for a gradual decrease of the insurance contribution
rate paid to the Pension Fund and allows channeling the freed funds to investment in productive
development or job creation. To provide solidarity in the pension system and to allow payments
of disability pensions, survivors pensions, pensions to mothers with many children, and so on, it
was decided to redistribute the insurance fees in the personal piension accounts in the amount of
32 percent of the total tariff rate to the Pension Fund in the following ratio:
1999         2000          2001
solidarity share                 90% (29%)   81% (26%)   72% (23%)
personal accumulation share       10% (3%)    19% (6%)    28% (9%)
26.   The nominal value of the pension's basic part will remain the same during the coming
five years but actually it will be gradually reduced by inflatioil to 12 percent from the average
salary and adjust accordingly thereafter (modem correlation of the minimal and average salaries).
Thus, the pension's basic part will gradually constitute the minimal amount of the state support.
27.   The measures to be undertaken to reform the state pension system will allow the system,
according to our current projections, to emerge from its current financial turmoil beginning in
2001. At that time, it is projected that the system will begin to generate a surplus that will at first
be utilized to create a small pension fund reserve to cope with short term expenditures or income
fluctuations. By 2004, this surplus is expected to be high enough to allow for the reduction of the
payroll contribution rate by almost seven points, to a level of approximately 25 percent of the
gross wage, against the current level of 32 percent of the gross wage. Finally, in the longer term,
it is envisaged that the system will continue to generate surpluses that will open the possibility of
introducing a mandatory privately managed funded pillar.
28.   The next stage of providing for the more effective use of the pension funds is
restructuring of the accounting system and of financial resource management. Prior to the reform
process the primary registry did not provide the transparency of accounts and rational utilization
of the Pension Fund resources. There were problems with the connection of accounting and
financial management data, and with cash flows. Freezing of Pension Fund accounts were
advantageous for the banks but led to losses for the Pension Fund. All collections of insurance
fees and their distribution were implemented at the oblast level.
29.   Since 1997 the scheme for financial management of the Social Fund was changed, and
the reform of the accounting standards began. The complete centralization of accounts belonging
to the Social Fund of the Kyrgyz Republic was carried out which enabled:
(a) Daily receipt of information from servicing banks oIn the sum of the received income on a
regional scale and timely decisions on financing;
(b) Daily accounts on the sum of pension payments and debt amounts by regions of the
Republic;
(c) Exclude cash flows; do not allow the interference of local state administrations into
the management of pension funds; and
(d) New principles of budget planning, and movement of financial resources and the
accounting system, built on the electronic database were introduced. Training of
personnel in new standards of accounting and financing was carried out.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 12
30.   Reform of the Social Fund's accounting system will be carried out in accordance
with the plan of transition to the international standards elaborated jointly with the World
Bank experts. The work on further improvement of the financial resources management
system will be carried out within the framework of the adopted measures for the pension
formula modification, mechanism of redistribution of funds to pension accounts, and
indexation of pensions and deposits.
31.   The adopted institutional and organizational activities on reforming the pension system
permitted improvement, to some extent, in the budget situation of the Pension Fund by 1997. The
budget deficit dropped from 1.66 percent of GDP in 1996 to 1.49 percent of GDP in 1997, despite
the pension expenditure increase of Som 23 8 million, or 16 percent, which was due to the
increase of pensions granted before 1994, and which was approved by the Kyrgyz Republic
President's Decree of April 15, 1997 Ns 15. All undertaken measures for reforming the pension
system tumed out to be insufficient to eliminate the budget deficit completely. It is necessary to
search for new ways to allow the balancing of the Pension Fund budget, through optimizing the
income and expenditures regimes.
32.   In the framework of the activities carried out for optimizing pension expenditures and
realization of insurance principles, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic signed the Law (<On
introduction of amendments and addenda to the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic <On state pension
social insurance)), which sets forth a gradual increase of pension age for men up to 63 years, for
women - 58 years.
33.   In these conditions it is timely and important to provide the World Bank Credit for
Social Sector Restructuring>) according to the component pension reform> (SOSAC). It
will allow the system reforms to take hold, provide the Pension Fund with the time to
implement the initiated reforms, and to work out the mechanisms for financial asset
management aimed at improving revenues and targeting those revenues to cover the budget
deficit.
34.   For the nearest future, the Social Fund is planning to conduct short-term activities on
stabilizing the budget of the Pension Fund and improving the management system:
(a) To improve the system of contribution collection to the Pension Fund through
establishment of a database of physical and juridical entities, such as taxpayers, insurance
contribution payers, and insured persons, to be used jointly with the State Tax
Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance;
(b) Create a unified information network for social insurance (pension, medical and
insurance in case of unemployment);
(c) Move towards the monthly reporting by the contribution payers for control and quick
receipt, decision making with regard to the debtors of Social Fund;
(d) Start development of software for automated formation of the budget implementation
results of the Pension Fund on the basis of the contribution payers monthly reporting data
and the monthly accounting data;
(e) Development of a plan and transition of the Social Fund to the international accounting
standards;



Annex 1
Page 9 of 12
(f) Development of mechanisms for Social Fund financial asset management (shares of the
strategic enterprises of the Republic, transferred to the Social Fund by the results of
privatization in support of socially vulnerable population and also the enterprises - by
insurance debtors);
(g) Develop a mechanism of indexation of the deposits of personal insurance accounts and
annual indexation of the pensions;
(h) Revise the mechanism of disability certification and provide for its monitoring;
(i) Conduct work to inform the public on the reforms being implemented in the pension
system; and
(j) Provide a diverse and secure system of provision for personal pension savings, we will
develop and implement legislation ensuring management of voluntary private pension
funds under the program supported by the Asian Development Bank.
3.  LABOR MARKET AND POPULATION EMPLOYMENT
35.   Labor market as a part of economy is impacted by all areas of economic development.
Changes occurring in the economy are reflected in the structure of employment of population.
The analysis of the current situation in the labor market and population employment testifies to
the decrease of the number of employed in various sectors of the economy and correspondingly
the losses in fixed income. If in 1992 the number of the employed population in the economy
constituted 1,835,900 persons, in 1997 it decreased to 1,670,000 persons.
36.   The current situation in the employment area is complex. It is characterized by an
increase of mobility of labor resources, caused by the formation of new market structures. If the
majority of the employed in 1992 - 1993 was engaged on the state-owned enterprises and
organizations - 73 percent, at the current stage their share is a bit more than 50 percent of the
employed. Accordingly, by every year the structure of the enmployed in the alternative sectors of
economy is going through changes. The number of individuals engaged in individual work
activities, mainly on farms, is growing fast.
37.   The continuing privatization and enterprise restructuring processes have a specific impact
on the situation. In the conditions of decrease of production and reorganization of enterprises,
there is constant redundancy of existing jobs and creation of new jobs is more complicated now --
the problem of employment creation has become crucial.
38.   Since 1991 the sharp increase of the unemployment level has been noted. In 1991, the
unemployment level has increased practically from zero to 3.7 percent from the economically
active population. All above mentioned problems in this area require the government to develop
and implement urgent measures in the sphere of the labor market policy, to develop a mechanism
of labor market regulations in transition to market relations.
39.   The Government of the Republic makes certain efforts aimed at the decrease of tension in
the labor market. The implementation of the component "Ernployment Services" of the World
Bank financed "Social Safety Net" project has been completed. Within the framework of that
component the procedures for providing services to the job seekers were developed, functional



Annex I
Page 10 of 12
responsibilities and measures for strengthening of the Main Employment Department
management system were clearly determined, and the employment services were computerized.
40.   The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic approved the National Program "Labor Market
and Population Employment in the Kyrgyz Republic for 1998-2000 and for the period up to
2005" (Emgek) - it is the beginning of the new stage of reforms in the area of employment.
The new Law "On the Employment of the Population", which sets forth the implementation of
the new approaches to both passive and active activities of the labor market, was adopted. The
new Law will revise the criteria for unemployment benefit calculation and payment, as well as to
create a tripartite mechanism of cooperation in solving problems related to the labor market
(employers, employees, and the Government). The state policy in the future should be aimed at
the improvement of regulation mechanisms in the labor market, assistance to the employment of
population, activation of the population, and their stimulation towards the active labor.
41.   In compliance with the Government social policy strategy, aimed at the increase of the
employment policy's efficiency, it is planned to evaluate the current programs of active labor
market policy. The evaluation process will be conducted in order to study the efficiency of active
programs in improvement of the labor market situation, and if necessary, to reorganize them and
exclude the ineffective, passive programs.
42.   According to the new Law "On Employment of the Population" a new system of granting
unemployment benefits was developed, which provides for the benefit payments only to those
unemployed who have been paying social contributions to the Employment Fund. Thus, the
tendency of the social policy's new strategy is preserved and reflected in the "Araket" and
"Emgek" programs, it is aimed at strengthening the insurance principle that provide targeted
support to the unemployed population.
SUMMARYOFSOSAC MEASURES
43.   Invaluable assistance in the further reform of the social protection system, social
insurance should be provided by the SOSAC Credit the basic purpose of which is further
deepening of the social sector restructuring. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic is
planning, in the framework of the given project to continue the reforms in the system of social
protection, social insurance and employment services. The SOSAC policy matrix sets forth the
further efforts, which will significantly improve the financial stability of the Social Fund and
strengthen the social situation in the Republic, and particularly:
EMPLOYMENT
Implement the eligibility criteria in the new Employment Law
Limit Employment Fund expenditure on pro-active employment programs to no greater than 35
percent of all Employment Fund expenditure in 1999 Employment Fund draft budget, and after
ensuring that the level andfinancing of unemployment benefit payments are set to avoid arrears.
Revise active labor market programs, as setforth in the Employment Fund budgetfor 1999, in
such a way that: (i) all said programs found to be ineffective, on the basis of an impact
assessment, have not been included in the Employment Fund budget plan for 2000; and (ii) the
appropriations for active labor market programs are not higher than 35 percent of all budgeted
expenditures in the Employment Fund's budget plan for 2000



Annex 1
Page 11 of 12
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
Issuance of a Government decree providing that partial compensation to assist the poor for the
planned housing and utility price increases is integrated with the Unified Monthly Benefit
through end-1999.
Complete an assessment of: (i) the adequacy of the new means testingformula, setforth in the
Law on State Benefits, with respect to household income and consumption in urban and rural
areas; and (ii) the effectiveness of the targeting mechanism under the Unified Monthly Benefit
system, including the identification of alternative approaches and action plans for improving the
effectiveness of said targeting mechanism.
Develop and implement a Natstatkom plan for a permanent syvstem of Poverty Monitoring
Surveys, supported by a parallel satisfactory data access policy, and provide full funding for a
household survey of at least 2030 households.
PENSIONS
Implement a retirement age increase of a minimum offour months per year as compared with the
legal retirement age of January 1, 1998, under a program providing for an overall increase in the
said retirement age of three years, beginning no later than Jtnuary 1, 1999
Submit and implement a Social Fund draft budget for 1999 with non-mandatory transfers from
the state budget to the Pension Fund no higher than Som 300 million, and with no pension
indexation for the year. Based on current projections, we will target a level of non-mandatory
transfers to the Social Fundfor the 2000 budget plan for the Social Fund of no higher than Som
150 million.
Issue and implement a Government decree with the necessarypension formula adjustments so as
to include an actuarially fair k coefficient for personal accolnts, an appropriate minimum
pension, and appropriate crediting ofpayroll contribution for pensions to personal accounts.
Issue a Government decree transferring responsibility for disability certification for pensions
from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection to the Social Fund, assess the adequacy of
disability certification procedures, and develop an action plan for improving said procedures.
Develop and implement a plan by the Social Fund providing for a transition from the Pension
Fund's and Employment Fund's current accounting practices to International Accounting
Standards
Complete an analysis of options to attain fiscal sustainability of the state pension system
(including the minimum possible non-mandatory subsidy from the state treasury to the Pension
Fund) in 2001 and beyond, and undertake a detailed assessment of the fiscal and social impact of
longer term pension policy options.
Submit to Parliament a draft law providingfor: (i) an appropriate mechanism for pension
indexation; (ii) the reduction of non-contributory earnings periods for pensions and early
retirement privileges; and (iii) the principle that any remaining privileges be financed under the
state budget.



Annex 1
Page 12 of 12
Present the Social Fund's draft budget to Parliament simultaneously with the state budget, and
send the Ministry of Finance quarterly reports on the execution of the Social Fund budget
Increase the number of individual contributors in the payroll contribution base as to a target of
1.1 million contributors in 1999.
Limit payments in-kind to the Social Fund to no more than 8 percent of all revenues and
expenditures in 2000, and require all benefit payments to be made in cash
Coordinate Tax Inspectorate and Social Fund collection efforts, including use of a common
identifi cation number for workers and employers, joint audits, and exchanges of collection
related information.
Develop and implement a public information plan on the pension reform.
Develop and implement satisfactory guidelines on the management of Social Fund assets.
Ensure transparent crediting of revenues collected on behalf of the Compulsory Medical
Insurance Fund, the Employment Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, and the Pension Fund
44.   The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic hopes that the timely allocation of the credit of
the World Bank will allow to speed up the solution of the key objectives in reforming the social
protection system, population employment, pension system, and improvement of the Social
Fund's financial sustainability.
Sincerely yours,
Kubanychbek Jumaliev
Prime Minister
Kyrgyz Republic
[Executed and signed October 30, 1998]



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Annex 2: Policy Matrix
-=
1. Outline Govemment social sector  MoF/MLSP/SF        Technical assistance program agreed  (a) Submission  of a  letter to  the
implementation program                                 during Credit negotiations.        Association agreeing to provide financing
from Government funds for the agreed
technical assistance program in the event
that satisfactory bilateral or multilateral
sources of finance are not available in the
amounts or time required                _
(I) EMPLOYMENT                    huprove the effi  lcbofk ikot creaw to facilitate the a_ sitiowi tD a tk                                                             D
1. Strengthen labor market policy  MLSP/EF             New  Employment Law  passed by  (a)   New    eligibility   criteria  for  (a) The Borrower has revised its active
Parliament June 30, 1998, signed by  unemployment benefits in the June 30, 1998  labor market programs, as set forth in
President.  This law  includes the  employment law implemented.           the Employment Fund budget for 1999,
establishment   of   a   tripartite                                       in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
mechanism  for  involving  social  (b) Employment Fund expenditure on  Association and in such a way that: (i)
partners in the development and  pro-active employment programs is no  all  said  programs  found  to  be
implementation of labor policy.   greater  than   35  percent  of  all  ineffective, on the basis of an impact
Employment Fund expenditure in 1999  assessment   satisfactory   to   the
Employment Fund has submitted draft  budget, and after ensuring that the level  Association, have not been included in
1999 budget that includes financing of  and financing of unemployment benefit  the Employment Fund budget plan for
active labor market programs under  payments are set to avoid arrears.     2000; and (ii) the appropriations for
the 35% threshold.                                                         active labor market programs are not
higher than 35 percent of all budgeted
expenditures in the Employment Fund's
budget plan for 2000.
(frSOCIAL A$SSTNCg                Imlmn f7tie  eltretdadfaly'su~araW1.rgan  oal0W   oety                                           ______________
1.  Develop  the legislative and  MLSP/MoF             New  law  on state benefits passed  (a) Issue a Government Decree providing  (a) The Borrower has completed the
regulatory framework for targeting                     Parliament, became effective May 1, that partial compensation to assist the  first phase of an assessment, satisfactory
social assistance                                       1998, which  (i) de-links  social  poor for the planned housing and utility  to the Association, of: (i) the adequacy
assistance benefits from  minimum   price increases is integrated with the  of the new means testing formula, set
wage; (ii) establishes the concept of a  Unified Monthly Benefit (as defined in  forth in the Borrower's Law on State
guaranteed minimum income; and (iii)  the "Law on State Benefits" of March 5,  Benefits, with  respect to  househoid
protects present allocations for the  1998) through end-1999.              income and consumption in urban and
'unified monthly benefit for low-                                         rural areas; and (ii) the effectiveness of
income families.'                                                         the targeting  mechanism  under the
Unified Monthly Benefit system,
IDA    energy   credit  requires                                          including   the   identification    of
development of program of benefits                                         alternative approaches and action plans
for poor to  offset utility  price                                        for improving the effectiveness of said
increases;  compensation   strategy                                        targeting mechanism.
developed and agreed, decree for
implementation issued November 4,
1998.
Note: Bold indicates tranche release conditions.



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Annex 2: Policy Matrix
(b) The Government has undertaken an
analysis of household consumption of
residential  utilities,  including  (i)  a
differentiation of said consumption by
income, region, and urban and rural areas;
(ii) current billing practices and payment
practices; (iii) projected changes in
demand given different scenarios of price
increases; and (4) related areas as deemed
_________________________________ appropriate  in  the  research  design.
2. Develop a permanent system of   Natstatkom           Data is being collected under the  (a) Approve plan for permanent system of  (a) Ensure that data is made available to
poverty monitoring and household                        Poverty     Monitoring     Survey.  Poverty Monitoring Surveys, supported by a  Government   and    non-Government
surveys                                                 Natstatkom  has passed a new data  parallel satisfactory data access policy  agencies and all other interested parties to
access policy, and has developed a                                          conduct active policy related analysis of
plan for the permanent system  of  (b) Submit 1999 budget to Parliament with  the survey  data, including  analytical
Poverty Monitoring Surveys.        funding level sufficient to allow Natstatkom   reports on areas such as general poverty
to undertake household survey with, at a  issues,  social  assistance  and  social
minimum, a sample of 2030 households.   insurance benefit incidence, and labor
market structure and unemployment
(b) Submit 2000 budget to Parliament with
funding  level  sufficient  to  allow
Natstatkom to undertake household survey
with, at a minimum, a sample of 2030
households.
a                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1. Attain fiscal sustainability of the  Social Fund, MLSP,  A Pensions Law was passed on June  (a)  Strengthen  Social  Fund  revenue  (a) Strengthen  Social Fund  revenue
state pension system:              MoF                  30, 1997 and signed by the President  collection and management through:    collection through:
gradually   introducing   Notional
(a) Strengthen Social Fund                           Defined  Contributions  (NDC)  to  *   Broaden the payroll contribution base  *   Broaden the payroll contribution base
revenue collection                                personalized accounts as the main      from 800,000 individual contributors     to 1. I million individual contributors.
basis for the state PAYG scheme        in April, 1998 to 900,000 individual
contributors.
An amendment to the above Law was
passed June 30, 1998 raising the  *   Limit payments in kind to Social Fund  *   Limit payments in kind to Social
retirement age by 4 months per year    to no greater than 12 percent of 1999    Fund to no greater than 8 percent of
for men and women until the ages of    revenues and expenditures, inclusive     1999  revenues  and  expenditures,
63/58 for men and women beginning      of transfers from the state budget; and  inclusive of transfers from the state
January 1, 1999, and includes other    require all benefit payments to be in    budget;  and  require  all benefit
strengthening measures.                cash                                     payments to be in cash



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Annex 2: Policy Matrix
Required minimum earnings periods  *   Submission of a satisfactory plan for  *   Evidence  of      satisfactoly
to increase by I year per year from   the coordination of Tax Inspectorate   implementation   of  the   joint
January 1, 1998 to January 1, 2003.   and Social Fund collection efforts,     contribution collection plan
including   use  of  a   common
Currently, worker contributions are   identification number for workers and
not  appropriately  split  between    employers, joint audits, and exchanges
accounts; the entire contribution is  of collection related infornation.
credited to the individual pension
account (while disability and other  *   Development of a public information  *   Implementation   of   a   public
areas also require coverage).         plan  showing  the  link  between       information plan showing the link
contributions and benefits under the   between contributions and benefits
Little coordination between Social    NDC pension system                      under the NDC pension system
Fund  and  Tax  Inspectorate  in
contribution collection.
(b) Contain Social Fund         Social Fund, MLSP, Pension  deficits  are  high  and  (b) Contain Social Fund expenditures to an  (b) Contain Social Fund expenditures to an
expenditure to an appropriate   MoF             constitute a large percentage of the  appropriate level through:          appropriate level through:
level                                           overall fiscal deficit
*   Submission of evidence satisfactory   *   The  Borrower  has  provided
to the Association that a retirement  satisfactory   evidence  to  the
age inc rease of a minimum of four    Association that: (i) the retirement
months per year as compared with      age has been Increased by at least
the legal retirement age of January   four months by comparison with
1, 1998, under a program providing    the corresponding level on January
for an overall increase in the said   1, 1998; and (ii) legal measures,
retirement age of three years, is     satisfactory  to  the  Association,
envisioned to be implemented no       continue to provide for the annual
later than January 1, 1999 under      increase of the retirement age of at
current legislation.                  least four months, so that the
retirement age increases by a total
of three years.
*   Submission of a Government draft  *   The  Borrower  has  provided
budget for 1999 with non-mandatory     satisfactory  evidence  to  the
budgetary transfers to the Social      Association that the expected non-
Fund  no higher than  Som  300         mandatory budgetary transfers to
million, - and  with  no  pension      the Pension Fund, for 1999, amount
indexation for the year.               to less than Som 300 million



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Annex 2: Policy Matrix
*   Issuance of a Government Decision  *   The    Borrower    has   taken
('Reshenie')  by  the  Supervisory      satisfactory measures providing for
Council of the Social Fund  (as         changes to the pension formula
defined in the April 15, 1998 Decree    agreed   with  the   Association,
No. 197 "On the Establishment of        including   actuarially  fair   k
the Supervisory Council of the Social   coefficient for personal accounts,
Fund") with the necessary pension       appropriate minimum pension, and
formula adjustments, so as to include   appropriate crediting  of payroll
an actuarially fair k coefficient for   contribution   for  pensions  to
personal accounts, an appropriate       personal accounts
minimum pension, and appropriate
crediting of payroll contribution for  *   The Borrower has submitted to the
pensions to personal accounts.          Association:  (i)  a  satisfactory
assessment      of      disability
certification procedures; and (ii) a
*   Issuance of a Government decree         satisfactory action plan  for the
transferring   responsibility   for     improvement of said procedures.
disability certification for pensions
from  the Ministry of Labor and  *   The Borrower's Government has
Social Protection to the Social Fund    submitted  to  the  Borrower's
Parliament a draft law, satisfactory
to the Association, providing for: (i)
an appropriate mechanism for
pension   indexation;   (ii)  the
reduction   of  non-contributory
earnings periods for pensions and
early retirement privileges; and (iii)
the principle that any remaining
privileges be financed under the
Borrower's budget.
*   Development of satisfactory guidelines  * Adoption  and  implementation  of
on the management of all Social Fund   satisfactory   guidelines   on   the
assets such as shares in companies,    management of all Social Fund assets
bonds and real estate owned by the     such as shares in companies, bonds and
Social Fund, and all Social Fund       real estate owned by the Social Fund,
expenditures (including indexations) to  and  all Social Fund  expenditures
be  financed  from   payroll  tax      (including indexations) to be financed
contributions, current revenues from   from payroll tax contributions, current
assets (dividends, interest), and/or   revenues  from   assets  (dividends,
budgetary transfers only; no sale of    interest), and/or budgetary transfers
assets to finance state pensions       only; no sale of assets to finance state
pensions



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Annex 2: Policy Matrix
2.  Ensure proper supervision of the  MoF/Conmission  on                                 t(a) Legal framework for new law deven   (a) Legal framework for new law
voluntary private pension scheme  Securities           for voluntary private pensions under                                       submitted to Parliament
Asian Development Bank prograwn.
3. Dpvelop the institutional capacity  SF/MOF/MLSP     PSRMAC Second Tranche condition  (a) Pension  ound accounts for 1997  and  (a) The Borrower has: (i) provided
of the Social Fund, and strengthen the                 for double entry bookkeeping partially  through June 30, 1998 reviewed, and each  satisfactory evidence to the Association
accounting,  audit  and  financial                     waived  in favor of transition to full  category of revenues, expenditures, assets  that  the  Pension  Fund  and  the
management of the Social Fund as the                   Intemational Accounting  Standards  and liabilities under the existing system   Employment Fund  have  completed
foundation for other elements of                       (IAS)                              translated into a financial statement that   preparation of the documents for a
pension reform.                                                                           corresponds to IAS.                     tender regarding the implementation of
Accounting   review    conducted,     .a program aimed at assisting said Funds
preliminary  draft  conversion  of  (b)  Submission to IDA of an approved  in their transition from their current
revenues, cxpenditures, assets and  plan acceptable to IDA providing for a  accounting practices to International
liabilities under the existing system  transition from the Pension Fund and the  Accounting Standards; and (ii) has
translated into a financial statement  Employment Fund's current accounting  submitted  to  the  Association   a
that corresponds to IAS and associated  practices to International Accounting  satisfactory  audit, prepared  by  an
implementation plan completed.    Standards                               auditor acceptable to the Association, of
the accounts of the Pension Fund and
(c)  Social Fund draft budget for 1999  the Employment Fund for 1998.
presented to Parliament and published
simultaneously with the state budget, and  (b)   Adoption  of adequate  internal
quarterly reports on execution of the budget  procedures to ensure transparent crediting
sent to Ministry of Finance             of revenues collected on behalf of the
Compulsory Medical Insurance Fund, the
Social Insurance Fund, the Pension Fund,
and the Employment Fund to those Funds
4. Introduce and utilize appropriate  SFIMOF/MLSP/     The Social Fund has just been given  (a) Submission to IDA of a plan outlining  (a) The Borrower has submitted to the
policy modeling tools to analyze  Natstatkom           ministerial portfolio. A plan outlining  the responsibilities for social and pension-  Association a satisfactory assessment of
fiscal and social impact of reform                     the responsibilities for social and  related policy development within and  the fiscal and social impact of pension
options                                                pension-related policy development  between Kyrgyz agencies (such as the  policy options, on the basis of a pension
within and between Kyrgyz agencies  MOF, the Social Fund, and the MLSP).   policy  model  satisfactory  to  the
(such as the MOF, the Social Fund,                                        Association, including the option of a
and the MLSP) has been submitted to  (b)  Introduce, develop, implement and  gradual transition to partial funding of
IDA.   A  pension modeling tool  properly maintain an appropriate pension  the pension system through mandatory
(PROST) is being maintained by the  modeling tool                         private    accounts   for    system
Government.                                                               contributors.
(c) Submission to IDA by the Social
Fund of a satisfactory analysis of options
(utilizing its pension policy model) to
attain fiscal sustainability of the state
pension system (including the minimum
possible non-mandatory subsidy from the
state treasury to the SF) in 2001 and
________________________________   ___________________  ________________________         beyond _ond



Annex 3A
Page 1 of 2
Kyrgyz Republic - Key Economic Inlicators
July 1998
Estimate               Projected
Indicator                   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998f  1999V  200Of   2002f  200s5
National accounts                                               (% of GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product (market prices)          100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Indirect taxes                                  6.2    7.3    6.9      6.1     6.7    6.8    6.9    7.4    7.4
Agriculture (at factor cost)                   38.4   40.7   46.3    45.2   45.2   45.2   45.2   44.0   43.0
Industry (at factor cost)                      23.9   18.1   17.0    20.8   20.8    21.0   21.0   21.0   22.0
Services(atfactorcost)                         31.6   33.9   29.8    27.9    27.4   27.0   26.9   27.6   27.6
Total Consumption                                97.3   94.6  100.6    93.3   92.7    90.5   88.6   88.0   88.0
Gross domestic fixed investment                  12.1   20.4   22.4    13.7    12.8    13.6    15.0   15.9   14.5
Government investment                             ..    ...     ..    4.2      6.0    6.0      5.7    5.7    5.7
Private investment and increase in stocks        ..    ..    ..   10.2    7.1          8.0     9.6   10.6    9.0
Exports (GNFS)'                                  33.8   29.5   30.7    41:3    38.4   38.8    40.7   41.2   41.5
Imports (GNFS)                                   40.1   42.4   56.6    48.9   44.2   43.3   44.7   45.5   44.3
Memorandum items
GDP(US$niillionatcurrentprices)                 1103   1495   1814    1683    1819    1936   2069   2379   2976
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)               790    670    570      440       ..      ..
GDP at market prices (real annual growth rates)  -20.1   -5.4    7.1    10.4    2.5    4.0       4.0    4.0    4.5
Real annual per capita growth rates                                (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
GDPatrmarketprices                            -19.4   -5.9    5.7      8.9     1.5    3.0      3.0    3.0    3.5
Total consumption                             -25.3  -10.0   18.3   -10.8    17.6    2.3       3.7    3.2    4.0
Private consumption                           -26.4   -7.3   18.0   -15.0   25.0    3.2    4.4    2.7    3.8
Balance of Payments (US$million)
Exports (GNFS)'                                 369    448    562      695    699    752    842    979   1235
Merchandise FOB                               340    409    531      633    663    712    781        919    1130
Imports (GNFS)a                                476    632    926       754    804    838       925   1081   1317
Merchandise FOB                               459    588    783      641    692    720    778    901    1082
Resource balance                               -107   -184   -364       -';9   -106    -86    -82   -102    -82
Net current transfers                            29      79     89      65      69      70      70      70      70
(including official current transfers)
Current account balance                        -124   -242   -423    -137   -167   -137    -129   -140   -151
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct investment            45      96     46      60      30      35      40      50      65
Long-term loans (net)                           105    200    244      1:53    124     118    105    142    137
Official                                       106      65     62     173     149     134     159    152   lS
Private                                         -I    135    182       -20    -25      -16     -54    -10      19
Other capital (net, including errors and omissionsf  -5  -3    172      -42      -3      3       7      -28    -33
Change in reservesd                              -20    -51    -39      -:34    16    -18    -23        -25    -19
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP at current prices)    -9.7  -12.3  -20.1    -3.5   -5.8   -4.5   -4.0   -4.3   -2.8
Current accountbalance (% of GDP)               -11.3  -16.2  -23.3    -8.1    -9.2   -7.1    -6.2   -5.9   -5.1
(continued)



Annex 3A
Page 2 of 2
Kyrgyz Republic - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
July 1998
Estimate                   Projected
Indicator                   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998    1999   2000   2002   2005
Public finance '                                                (as % of GDP at current market prices)
Currentrevenuesandgrants,ofwhich                20.4   16.4   14.7    16.6    17.9    17.9    18.0    18.8    18.9
Tax revenues                                  13.6   15.0   12.7    13.1    13.6    13.8    14.1    14.9    15.1
Grants                                         2.5    0.3    0.9      0.7     1.4     1.2    0.9      0.6    0.6
CuTrentexpenditures                             22.9   25.8   21.2    22.0    21.5    19.9    19.2    18.8   18.4
Budgetary savings                                -2.5   -9.4   -6.5    -5.5    -3.6    -2.0    -1.2      0.0    0.5
Capital revenues                                 0.4    0.3    1.3       0.4     0.3     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.0
Capital expenditure                              4.9    4.8    3.8       3.9     6.0     6.0     5.7     5.7     5.7
of which externally financed PIP               3.9    3.8    3.2      3.2     4.9     4.8     4.3     4.0     3.7
Net lending                                      4.7    3.4    0.4       0.5    -0.2    -0.3     0.0     0.0     0.0
Overall balance                                -11.6  -17.3   -9.5    -9.4    -9.1    -7.6    -6.9    -5.6   -5.1
Foreign financing                                9.8    9.1    6.9       8.2     7.0     5.5     4.7     4.6     3.9
MonetarySystemCredit(inet)andT-billmarket        1.9    8.2    2.1       1.2     1.5     1.0    1.1    0.5       0.5
NBKR net                                       1.3    7.8    1.9      0.4     0.4     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Commnercial banks                              0.5    0.4    0.1      0.5     0.7     0.7     0.7     0.4     0.3
Nonbank              .                         0.0    0.0    0.1      0.3     0.3     0.3      0.4    0.1      0.2
Privatizationrevenue(net)                        0.0    0.0    0.5       0.1     0.5     0.7     0.6     0.2    0.1
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(%,atcurrentmarketprices)                 12.8   16.8   14.3    14.4    14.5    15.2    15.2    16.0   16.8
Growth ofM2 (%)                                    ..  76.7   22.9    26.5    16.6    18.9    10.9    9.4        9.3
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/totalcreditgrowth(%/.)  ..    .. -152.0    30.9    52.1    21.8    59.8    68.5   73.0
Price indices( 1995 =100)
Consumerpriceindex(%growthrate)                 95.7   31.9   35.0    14.7    11.1       8.9     6.6     5.2     4.6
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Based on the Atlas synthetic conversion factor. The pace for introducing market exchange rates is currently being considered.
c. Includes portfoho investments.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Includes transfers to the Social Fund and the Public Investment Program.
g. The scenarios do not incorporate the impact of the Russia crisis and will be updated after the return of the IMF ESAF mission and the
World Bank fiscal sustainability missions, in the field at the time of printing.



Annex 3B
Page 1 of 1
Kyrgyz Republic - Key Exposure Imdicators
Estimate                Projected
Indicator                   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998g   1999g   2000g   2002g  2005g
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a    436  759    1081    1319    1482    1621    1737    1969   2303
Netdisbursements(US$m)a                           120    247      264     215     141     139     122     119     112
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)a                   14    125      109     109     131     166     191     197     164
Debt and debt service indicators (%) g
TDOb/XGSe                                      118.0   166.7  190.1   1 87.7  209.5   213.1   204.1   199.2   185.2
TDO/GDP                                        39.5    50.8    59.6    78.4    81.5    83.7    84.0   82.7   77.4
TDS/XGS                                         3.9    27.4    19.2    15.6    18.6    21.8    22.5    20.0    13.1
IDA exposure indicators (%)
IDA DS/public DS                                 1.7    0.5      1.5     3.2     4.0     3.4     3.2     3.7     7.4
Preferred creditor DS/public                   45.2    30.8    13.5   37.1    43.5    34.5    34.8    49.7    51.8
DS (%)d
IDA DS/XGS                                      0.1     0.1     0.2      0.2     0.3     0.3     0.3     0.4     0.8
IDA TDO (US$m)e                                  59     140     199    266      318     368     446      540    682
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                             0      30       2       0
Equity and quasi-equity f                         0      10      0.3     0.2
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                            0    59.3      4.5      0        ..     ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b. Debt at current prices, in present value terms it is much lower.
c. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
d. Preferred creditors are defned as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank for Intemational Settlem
e. Includes present value of guarantees.
f. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
g. The scenarios do not incorporate the impact of the Russia crisis and will be updated after the return of the IMF ESAF mission and the
World Bank fiscal sustainability missions, in the field at the time of printing.



Annex 4
Page 1 of I
Pension Fund: Fiscal Performance
Table A: Pension Fund: Fiscal Performance, 1995-1997 (000's Som)
1995       1996        1997
Revenues                                        1006745    1292400      1625700
Rollover from the previous year                      -           -       35200
Contributions (current + debt collection)       946020    1203200      1472700
Mandatory transfers from the Rep. Budget         60725       89200      117800
Expenditures                                    1172596    1704100      2146100
Labor pensions                                 1114996    1620400      2054100
Military pensions                                52210       64000       63100
Administrative expenses                           5390       19700       28900
Deficit                                          165851      411700      520400
Non-Mandatory Transfers from the Budget         100000      308100      446200
Borrowing from other funds within the SF         65851      103600       74200
Arrears (rolled over into the next year)          23700       79400         8000
% of GDP
Revenues                                          6.24        5.75         5.73
Contributions                                   5.86        5.36        5.19
Mandatory transfers form the Budget             0.38        0.39        0.42
Expenditures                                      7.26        7.58         7.56
Deficit                                           1.02        1.83         1.83
Non-Mandatory Transfers from the Budget         0.62        1.37        1.57
Borrowing from other funds within the SF        0.40        0.46        0.26
Recipients and Benefits
Total Number of Pensioners                                    540.0       542.7
Total Number of Contributors                                  835.0       853.0
Ratio of Contributors/Pensioners                               1.55        1.57
Average Pension/Average Wage                                   0.55        0.58
NOTE: Revenues and expenditures executed within each year (January 1 -December 31) are presented. Deficit is
calculated as a difference between collected revenues and executed expenditures. Non-revenue sources of deficit
fmancing are transfers from the republican budget and borrowing from other funds within the SF (Employment
Fund, Medical Insurance Fund and Social Insurance Fund). Arrears refer to payment of pensions which was rolled
over into the next year. GDP for the respective years is 16.145; 22.4678 and 28.37 billion Som.
For 1998 (projected), see Annex 5



Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
Analysis of Kyrgyz Republic's Pension System
A.    System Description
1.    Current Status. The Kyrgyz pension system has average benefits that are now roughly 60 percent
of the average wage (after implementation of a pension 'equalization' scheme in early 1998 that increased
average pensions by over 20 percent). Combined with the low retirement age and a drop in formal sector
employment, the ratio of contributing workers to pensioners has dropped to approximately 1.7. Payroll
contributions to the Pension Fund are 32 percent of gross wages (24.7 percent of labor costs). The above
factors have contributed to high expenditure levels of roughly 7-8 percent of GDP. In 1997, the Pension
Fund deficit was Som 528.4 million (1.7 percent of GDP), with total Pension Fund expenditures some 32
percent higher than source revenues (contributions plus mandatory transfers from the republican budget).
2.     1997/1998 Pension Reform: According to the State Pension Law of October 1997, and its
amendments of June 1998, pension benefits are calculated as the sum of the three components: B, SP1
and SP2. After a transition period over which the two first components B and SP1 will decrease, pensions
will only be based on the calculation of the SP2 component. The pension equation is as follows:
(I)      Pt . = B, + SPIti + SP2,,i  if SPlI,i > 0
and   P,,i = SP2t,             if SPlt, = 0
where the index t and i refer to the period of time t and the pensioner i.
The first component is the "base," B. Its amount was fixed at 200 Som in October 1997. It is fully paid
to the pensioners who have the required number of years of service and cut proportionally to those with
less service. The 1997 law envisages the elimination of the base at the time the second component has
been eliminated from the formula. The 1998 amendment stipulates that the speed at which the base will
decline is linked to the current financial position of the Pension Fumd. Minimum service increases one
year per year from 1997 on, from 20 to 25 years for woman and from 25 to 30 years for men.
The second component, SP I, is defined on a monthly basis and corresponds to I percent of worker's final
average wage per year of service worked before 1996. The worker's final average wage is calculated
over the best 5 consecutive years of service. Past wages are adjusted by coefficients approved by
Parliament. The calculation of the SPI component can be represented by the following equation:
(2)       SPlt'i = 0.01.[Li - (t- 1996)].Wi
where the variables Li and Wi correspond to the number of years of service and the final average
wage of the worker i.
The third component, SP2, is defined on a monthly basis and correspond to a percentage of the
contributions accumulated in a notional individual account since 1996. According to the 1997 law, the
level of the percentage applied in the formula is calculated every year by the Board of State Social
Insurance Management (BSSIM) "taking into account the average length of life of a pensioner ... and the
Pension Fund budget profitability and prognosis of its development." That percentage is currently equal
to 9 percent. The 1998 amendment stipulates that the amount of the deposits in the individual accounts
will be indexed annually by up to 75 percent of the growth of the wages in the previous year. The
calculation of the SP2 component can be represented by the following equation:



Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
(3)       SP2ti = K.- 
12
where K is the coefficient defined by the BSSIM, and Kt-,i corresponds to total amount of the
notional capital accumulated in the account of the worker i, since 1996 and until he retires.
The 1998 reform package increased the retirement age by 4 months per year over nine years, beginning
January, 1999 (to age 63 for men and 58 for women), reduced pensions to working pensioners by 50
percent for those earning over the average wage, and introduced the principal that benefits are paid when
they are due.
B.    Issues with the Current System
3.    While the fiscal position of the Pension Fund greatly improved with the introduction of the
retirement age increase, the system is still not fully sustainable and requires adjustment. As designed, the
personal accounts (i) receive 100 percent of the contribution, but should be credited with less as the
system also finances disability pensions, survivors pensions, and a minimum pension; (ii) are currently
subjected to an actuarial assessment based on roughly II years life expectancy regardless of age of
retirement, when Natstatkom figures register life expectancy at 16 years for men and 22 years for women
at the normal retirement age; and (iii) phase out the base pension, which is likely to increase poverty and
also which reduces incentives to contribute among unskilled workers. In addition, the Law still includes
privileges for calculating years of service - i.e., non-contributory time spent in occupational education,
university education is credited towards the pension. Early retiTement privileges have been reduced, but
there are some provisions for certain groups (some of which are financed by the state budget or the
enterprise rather than the Pension Fund). Indexation of current pensions is on an ad hoc basis, and new
mechanisms need to be established and made transparent. Disability pensions are growing rapidly.
C.    Impact of SOSAC Supported Reforms
4.    The SOSAC supports the following medium term measures that are just now being applied:
(1) increasing of the retirement age by three years over a nine year period, which also leads to
gains in increased contributions from postponed retirement;
(2) reductions in payments to working pensioners of 50 percent;
(3) paying pension benefit when it is due (prior month instead of current month); and
(4) increase in minimum length of service (to 25/30 years, respectively, by 2003).
The SOSAC also supports the following longer term measures that will begin implementation before first
tranche:
(1) freeze in the nominal base pension until it reaches 12 percent of the average wage;
(2) reduction of the amount credited to the personal accounts from 100 percent to 72 percent;
(3) application of an actuarially fair K coefficient for the personal account calculation, now
differentiated by age;
(4) cuts in non-contributory earnings periods beginning in 1999; and
(5) improved disability certification.
5.    The measures just now being applied and the measures that will begin to be implemented before
first tranche will ensure long-term financially sustainable replacement rates. Combined with the decrease
of the dependency ratio resulting from the increase in retirement age, and the gradual elimination of the



Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
privileges, the NDC reform will help the system emerge from its current financial turmoil beginning in
2001. At that time, the system will begin to generate a surplus that will probably be first utilized to create
a small Pension Fund reserve to deal with short-term expenditures or income fluctuations. By 2004, this
reserve will be large enough to foresee the reduction of the payroll tax by almost 7 points, or to a level of
25 percent of gross wage against the current level of 32 percent of gross wages. Finally, in the longer-
term, the system will continue to generate surplus which will open the possibility of introducing a private
funded pillar. The projected fiscal impact of all of these measures is outlined in Table 1 and Graph 1. The
impact of the NDC reform if SOSAC reforms are implemented is firther outlined below.
Table 1: Deficit of the Pension Fund                1997        1998       1999      2000       2001      2025
in Som million
Pension Fund Deficit observed and projected in April 1998           -528       -!515      -287       -363       -225
in percent ofGDP                            -1.7       -1.5       -0.7      -0.8       -0.5      -1.0
Policies with impact in the shor-term
Savings after increased Retirement Age                                          25         53         80        119
Savings after reducing benefits for working pensioners                          13         31         42         52
Gains for increased contributions from postponed retirement                      6         14         16         23
Gains for cutting non-contributory eamings periods                                         29         37         36
Savings from deffering 1998 payments by one month                               183
Disability pensions back to historical trend                                               14         30         46
Policies with impact in the long-term                                                                                      2.0
Reduction but not elimination of the minimurn guaranteed benefit
Reduction of the allocation to the personal accounts
Actuarial fairness in the caculation of benefits
Pension Fund surplus/deficit after 1998 SOSAC supported measures                -289      -146       -158        50
in percent of GDP                                      -0.8       -0.4      -0.4        0.1       1.0
Impac of 1998 emergencies on collectionand cutting land-tax by half            -150       -150
Pension Fund Deficit projected in July 1998                                    -439       -296       -158        50
inpercent of GDP                                       -1.3       -0.8      -0.4        0.1
Targeted deficit under SOSAC                                                  -344.0    -300.0    -150.0
inmpercent of GDP                                      -1. 0      -0.8      -0.3
(5) results frorn the combinabon of PROST model applied to the Kyrygyzstan and specific model of notionzl accounts differentiated by 7 level of income.
Graph 1: Pension Fund deficitlsurplus in percent of GDP
-0.5
-1-
-1.5 
-2
-2.5 
1997         2002          2007         2012         2017         :2022          2027         2032
-    initial, before June amendments               overall reformed system



Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
6.     Table of K Coefficients. Currently, a single coefficient is used to determine the value of the state
pension annuity at retirement. Since this coefficient would be actuarially fair only at age 70, but is
applied at the current retirement ages, the present value of the benefits paid to pensioners is much higher
than the value of the total deposits they have in their individual accounts. Table 2 shows the new table of
coefficients that will be implemented by first tranche. These coefficients depend on age of retirement, but
are not differentiated by gender at the Government's request. They are based on the average Kyrgyz
Natstatkom life expectancy tables over 1994-1997, and will be revised each year in accordance with the
publication of natstatkOm's life expectancy tables. Once administrative capacity is sufficient, the annual
coefficient will rounded down by one decimal point so that each year has a unique k coefficient.
TABLE 2: K COEFFICIENT FOR PENSION CALCULATIONS
Age of          Life       K coefficient    Age of          Life       K coefficient
retirement    expectancy     In percent    retirement     expectancy     In percent
. (a)        (=l/a)                         (a)          (=1/a)
45            27.7            4             58            18.1            6
46          526.9             4              9            17.5            6
47            26.1                          60            16.8            6
48            25.4            4             61            16.2            6
49            24.6            4             62            15.5            7
50            23.8            4             63            14.8            7
51            23.1            4             64            14.3            7
52            22.4            5             65            13.8            7
53            21.6            5             66            13.3            8
54            20.7            5             67            12.6            8
55            20.0            5             68            12.1            8
56            19.4            5             69            11.5            9
57            18.8            5             70            11.0            9
7.     Basic Pension Maintained. Instead of eliminating the base pension, which could
increase poverty, the Government will issue a decree by first tranche that current level of the base will be
frozen at 200 Som until it reaches 12 percent of the average wage of the economy, and then will be
maintained at a level of 12 percent of the average wage of the economy from that point on. This measure
will ensure that a fuall career worker who has always earned the minimum wage would receive a pension
that would be roughly 75 percent of the minimum wage.
8.     Contributions to the Personal Accounts Reduced. The increase of the legal retirement
age, coupled by the progressive elimination of privileges and the introduction of a balanced NDC system,
will reduce the level of payroll contribution rate required to balance the system while maintaining an
adequate replacement rate. By first tranche, the amount of contributions credited to the individual
account will correspond to a contribution rate of 29 percent, or 90.5 percent of the total contribution rate
(currently 32 percent). By second tranche (September 1999), that amount will correspond to a
contribution rate of 26 percent. Finally, by 2001 that amount will correspond to a contribution rate of 23
percent.
Table 3 shows the impact of these changes on the three kinds of workers.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
rable 3 - Average replacement rate per group of income in percent of their own income
Scenario 1: current system
Scenario 2: pensions are calculated according to life expectancy of the
beneficiaries (K coefficients differentiated by age of retirement)
72 percent of contributions are credited to the individual accounts
(for an amount equivalent to a contribution rate of 23 percent)
and the base converges to 12 percent of the average wage
A. Workers who will have always earned wage equivalent to
278 Som in 1998, and will retire by
Scenario I Scenario 2
1998      94         94             t000
2000      85         80
2005      72         60                             -   -
2010      69         61             .-
2015      71         65             .02
im       ~~~~~2014  n202
2020      76         68
2025      83         72                  ....... WorkerA  o1
2030      92         75            . |    _ WorkewASceio2    l
2035       102       79
B. Workers who will have always earned wage equivalent to
902 Som in 1998, and will retire by
Scenario I Scenario 2
1998      56         56             .0
2000      56         51
2005      59         47             000     .
2010      66         50                              ____..
2015      73         54               19"   z00,   z,s   2028$
2020      79         55
.....Worher a3 Scenrwio 1 
2025      86         56                         Wk1_io
Worker B Scenrio 2
2030      94         56                                         l
2035       102       57
C. Workers who will have always earned wage equivalent to
2078 Som in 1998, and will retire by
Scenario 1 Scenario 2
1998      44         44                             _____,.
2000      46         41
80.0
2005      53         41
2010      62         44                    .
2015      71         48             40.0
1998  2008   2018   2028
2020      78         49
2025      86         50                   ...... WorkIo C Sio 1
2030      93         51                         Worker C Scerwio2
2035       101       52



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SOSAC)
IMPLEMENTATION OF SOCIAL SECTOR RlEFORM PROGRAM
Introduction
1.    The SOSAC reforms are innovative, represent a break from the past, and involve
developing and implementing complex and new policy directions and models of service
delivery. As a result, it will be necessary to ensure that the Government secure sufficient, well
designed, and effectively supervised technical assistance in order to facilitate program success.
2.   In July and September, 1998, the SOSAC pre-appraisal and appraisal missions set out
some of the comprehensive development needs of the Social Fuand to improve its organization,
administration, business processes. These included an outline for a comprehensive business
plan, which might be backed in the future by a supporting automation plan (also outlined). Local
office procedures are still largely manual. The missions noted. that development of an
organization capable of efficiently and transparently handling Ihe administration of the new
system and personal accounts would require significant investment and some years of
implementation once a satisfactory business plan was put into place. It was also the view of the
missions that if properly conceived and implemented, developiLng such institutional capacity
would lead to clear economic returns. However, the scope, scale, and required investments
associated with this activity are well beyond the resources and! timeframe of the SOSAC. As a
result, the SOSAC team has prioritized a subset of priority areas to undertake during the credit.
3.    Similarly, the SOSAC covers important reforms in the areas of social assistance and
labor. It is clearly necessary to undertake assessments of the effectiveness of the new reforms in
these sectors, in order to help the Government to achieve its policy objectives and to ensure that
problem areas are identified and addressed in a timely fashion.
Priority Areas to be Covered under the SOSAC
4.    The areas to be covered under the SOSAC technical assistance program include:
1. Social Fund Accounting - Detailed Implementation Plan development
2. Social Fund Accounting (transition to International Accounting Standards)
3. Social Fund Audit
4. Social Fund Financial Management
5. Social Fund/Tax Inspectorate Coordination
6. Review of Disability Certification
7. Social Assistance Means Testing Assessment
8. Active Labor Market Program Impact Assessmeni



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
SOSAC Requirements
5.    The SOSAC will require the Government to agree to satisfactory terms of reference,
adequate funding, and full and proper implementation of the above activities. The Government
is encouraged to approach external agencies to finance the activities where possible, but changes
in the agreed terms of reference will have to be agreed with the Bank.
Projected Financing Plan
6.    The following financing plan covers the agreed activities. Details of the budgets for each
activity are included in the Terms of Reference for each activity. The Terms of Reference that
were agreed during Credit negotiations were distributed during Credit negotiations, and are
available in the Credit file in the Association's headquarters in Washington, DC.
Activity               Preliminary             Funding Source
Budget
[Social Fund LAS conversion (completed)]    [$88,000]     [FINSAC TA (2891-KG)]
1. Social Fund Accounting preparation  $72,000            FINSAC TA (2891-KG)
2. Social Fund Accounting             $947,250       SOSAC program or satisfactory donor
3. Social Fund Audit                   $97,450       SOSAC program or satisfactory donor
4. Social Fund Financial Management   $130,000       SOSAC program or satisfactory donor
5. Social Fund/TI Coordination        $120,000            FINSAC TA (2891-KG)
6. Disability Certification            $58,800       SOSAC program or satisfactory donor
7. Means Testing Assessment           $157,800       SOSAC program or satisfactory donor
8. Active Labor Market Assessment      $85,200       SOSAC program or satisfactory donor
Total, Financing to be Identified  1,476,500    (excluding L4S conversion, completed)
Total, Financing under FINSAC     $192,000      (excluding L4S conversion, completed)
TOTAL                   $1,668,500    (excluding IAS conversion, completed)
Terms of Reference for developing and implementing a public information plan have also been
presented. The Government is encouraged to seek donor financing for these terms of reference,
but is not required to do so under the SOSAC program.
Next Steps
7.    The completion of terms of reference for the Social FundlTax Inspectorate Coordination
activity will await the assessment of the USAID Tax Inspectorate computer team, which plans
prepare a software, hardware and training estimate on the needs for this activity in November,
1998.
Procurement/Management Arrangements
8.    Donor provided: Where it is agreed that the technical assistance will be financed by
outside agencies, those procurement arrangements will be applied. All submitted draft and final
reports on all technical assistance activities will be provided to the SOSAC coordinator's office,
and the World Bank resident mission and to the SOSAC team leader. SOSAC supervision



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
missions will be given reasonable access to consultant and counterpart teams to discuss findings
and progress against key objectives.
9.    SOSACprogram provided: Government procurement procedures will be followed. All
submitted draft and final reports on all technical assistance activities will be provided to the
World Bank resident mission and to the SOSAC team leader. SOSAC supervision missions will
be given reasonable access to consultant and counterpart teams to discuss findings and progress
against key objectives.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Kyrgaz Republic at a glance                                                                      11/5/98
ii ~  ~     Reuie            sa In   e          Development diamond'
Populat4n, mid-y   i//oi                                 4.                                        Life expectancy
I3NP. cer cacta Atls;;U;}0;:0tt0 mehoJ 1.18$,'  i;00000;3700j:t  t::2.328:00 t00J-36Q0it                                         -;
GNP.tIsehd   3$tl ns1.                                            1.0        72
Averace  annual arowtti. 198 1  -97;;0i; 00t;i tlt4  fi ;|0i0iS       i;  lill:Q0:0ii)i;i   Q;.s                                  0
pboruation 6%)0?                                                    0.        21
Lb  force f%l                                         1I         0.        2.3,    GNP                                 Gross
per                              primary
Moast reent estimae(latesit ear.avaial18914:l                                          cspita                        enrolrment
lPoverty (% of asulation belo  net  .:lzfneoe n           5$h
rban coulatioitn 1%  aftroWalinl 0i-:tTt0j00 l:00 i;;lS0: 39 Ti-<0 87. :0 '0t,if;28  0ift                                        -
Life  :edocancv at birf:|th 30Ei;Xiji Wers               8 lii00t:;ii:t00,70-i  0i90  59t
Infantmrtailly oe*t .o000livebirithrs)?f0: Xt4 ;i   ::     3f2  t ;:d25fi0:  78fTi;          
Child manutition 1% of ch}j;ildren ;;jL00;\: rrnder5)gli0i\it ,.0000i   ..;it  ..ti00$0\tiiai\ii   Access to safewatear          \
Access tosafe watori% oraooelal/on  VS        ..       71cces to afe  ate
Gross rAiima v.genllmenX tX~.ofsti~oo/-aoe conuJafI  i     1 n   j J-  : 9   1                      Kyrgyz Republic
Male                          110          ,.      100             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Low-income group
KEY EONOMI RATiS!and,LNGTEM  RED
Economic ratlos*
Exoorts of acods andservices/GDP  .  .   30~~~7    41.3                      Trade
Gross oetcsvnsGP.                                                ~             .
Curent Account balaneGP4,                                                    .64      tms
berest a mets/GO                                 ..        ,         .5       3.                                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                        .      39.4       81.8    ~~~~~~~~~Savings
Total debtiserv                                                    la ot  .  .  92  15.8  ~~
Debt/GP   .                                      .         ,       S         1 8,4
Debtexoorts                                       .        .      191       187
Indebtedness
19746 188-7      1996      1997l: 1998-0
0a.rcea ruaowth)
GDP                                     ..      86       71        1.           0Kyrgyz Republic
GNP.oer caoltal    .                    .       8.6      8.8        8'.8      3.0              -Low-income group
Exbortsofa       d 0   *. seivice      ,,        .       58        816        99.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growthi ates of output and Investmnent (%/)
(0% of GDP)                                                                            4
Aoriculture                                       .        ..      46.3      45.2
Industryv..                                               ..       17.0      20.8                       r
Manufacturina                                  ..        ..  1ii.           16.2      o
Services                                         ..        .       2         27.9     .                               96 9I
Private consumotion                              .         .       82.1      76.2      0
General oovernment consumotion                   ..       ..       18.5      17.1                    GDI KGDP
Imoorts of aoods and services O5.6                                           48.9
197646  1987-97        1996      1997      Growth rates of exporut  and Imports (%)
Aoriculture                                      ..       ..       15.1        7.0    ie\
Industrv                                         ..       ..        2.7       5.0 
Manufacturina                                  ..        ..         .       1 1.      o
Services                                         ..         ..     -3.1       9.9      29
Private consumDtion                               .        ..       5.3      11                2    93          9    96   97
General covemment consumotion                    ..         .6 1.5 1                   40
Gross domestic investment                        .         ..      36.2      10.4    .3
ImDorts of ooods and services                    ..       ..       54.3       12.9                   Exports      0Imports
Gross national oroduct                                    ..        8.3       10.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country fin bold) comoared wt its income-orouo avriae. If date are miasmna, the
diamond will be incomolete.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Kvr vz Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997     inflauon (%)
Domestic prices1.0
(% change)                                                                         1000
Consumer pnces                                  ..      *-      35.0      14.7     8000    /
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..      35.3      13.3      40 /
Govemment fnance                                                                    200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0               _
Current revenue                                 ..      ..      14.7      16.6              92   93   94   95   96    9
Current budget balance                         ..        .       -6.5     -5.5             -GDP deflator    0 CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                         .                -9.5     -9.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..      *-       631       633     1.000
Electdric Energy                              ..       ..       74        83      eo
Gold and gold products                        .        ..         0      185
Manufactures                                  ..       ..      298       209       600
Total imports (cf)                             ..       ..       901       781      400 -E*                    *    *i -
Food                                          ..       ..       98        79                  Ur*r**
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..      251       239       200
Capital/goods                                 .        ..       183      110 
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Exoort Doce index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        96        89
Imoort Drce index (1995=100)                    .        ..      101        97               a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995E=100)                               .        95        91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..       562       695      0-
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..       926       754     -2  91   92          94  95  96
Resource balance                               ..       *-      -364       -59      4 - 4
Net income                                      ..      ..      -148      -143      4
Net current transfers                          ..       ..        89        65      0
Current account balance                         ..      ..      -423      -137      12
-14
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..       462       171    .16 
Changes in net reserves                         *-       -       -39       -34      a-
Memo:
Reserves incdudina aold (USS millions)         ..       ..       132       200
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUSS)                ..      ..        8.5     13.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            0        0      1,081    1,319
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                        G: 12
IDA                                           0        0       199       266                                B:26s
Total debt service                              .        ..        ..                   F: 373
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                           0        0         1         2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   c: 170
Off/cialgrants                               ..       ..       112       112
Official creditors                           ..       ..       268       225
Prvate creditors                             ..       ..       182         8
Foreign direct investment                     .        ..       46        60
Portfolio equity                             ..       *-         0         0              E: 313           D:185
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0        99        60     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        0        61        66     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Pr/ncipal repayments                          0        0         0         0     c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        0        61        66
Interest payments                             0        0         1         2
Net transfers                                 0        0        60        65
Development Economics                                                                                                1115/98



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
Status of Bank Group Operations in Kyrgyz Republic
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undiab.      Oriq    Frm Rev' d   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
KG-PE-8518      1994   GOV. OF KYRGYZ REP.              TELECOMMUNICATIONS                       0.00       18.00        0.00          3.12      -1.81         0.00      HS         S
KG-PE-8524      1995   GOVT OF KYRGHYZSTAN               PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.                     0.00       15.00        0.00        12.96        11.23        0.00      HU'        HU-
KG-PE-8515      1995   GOVT. OF KYRGHYZSTAN             SOCIAL SAFETY NET                        0.00       17.00        2.00          1.95        3.99         .74      S          S
KG-PE-45631     1996   THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC               FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                     0.00       3.40        0.00          1.79        1.20        0.00      S          S
KG-PE-8523      1996   GOV'T OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC          HEALTH                                   0.00      18.50        0.00          6.71      -3.93         0.00      S          S
KG-PE-8519      1996   GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC          POWER & DIST. HEAT**                     0.00      35.00        0.00        33.66         9.36       14.89      S          S
KG-PE-8513      1996   GOVT OF KYRGYZ                   SHEEP & WOOL IMPROV.                     0.00       11.60        0.00          8.85        2.51        0.00      S          S
KG-PE-8520     .1997   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                  RURAL FINANCE                            0.00       16.00        0.00          7.15      -3.98         0.00      HS         S
KG-PE-46042     1998   GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ REPUB         IRRIGATION REHAB.                       0.00       35.00        0.00        35.62          .72        0.00      S          S
KG-PE-40721     1998   GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC         AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                      0.00      14.98        0.00         15.21         .50        0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                            0.00      184.48        2.00       127.02        19.79       15.63
Active Proiects       Closed Proiects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)t                  51.62              255.48              307.10
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD a,,d IDA;                12.48               254.00              430.48
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :               127.02                0.00              127.02



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Kyrgyz Republic
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-October-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                  Kumtor Gold            30.00    0.00   10.00    0.00   30.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1996                  Demirbank Kyrgyz        0.00     .45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  30.00    .45   10.00    0.00   30.00    0.45   10.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comrnitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  DEMIRBANK               2.00    0.00    0.00    2.00
KYRGYZ
Total Pending Commnitment:         2.00     .00    0.00    2.00



Annex 10
Page I of I
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING STETPS/TEAM LIST
Time taken to prepare:           23 months
Prepared by:                     Government, with assistance of World Bank staff and local
and foreign consultants
First mission:                   November, 1996
Appraisal:                       September, 1998
Negotiations:                    October, 1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness:   December, 1998
Expected Program Completion:     October, 1999



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29801
70                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80
e 5000                 1           .Q   S\    15KT                                                K                                         U L/ 
SOCA S EC T
\\  r*/)      ::=ay;Cs   +                            5    f~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N k YOILSCO
NAsnb    AIIT  s- O==-  _           1             ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
70                                                                                                                                                                                                    + -usJ; )  RAILROADS
01             KAZAKHSTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K P.KiySSAN                                                                                                                                                    -      MAIN ROAD
AZERBRJ8 t    r   /    T                          w o      RlAN                                                                                                                                                                    OTHER ROADS
ATER                               KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
'iCmn 'I \ ' 4 _ A     \   Bolkosh  |    MON  4A                                                                                                                                                        ED    ORLAST CAP TALS
~~~~  '1                                                                                                                                               0      SELECTED CITIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ELCE CTE
_ _ 'A  9 '  t    Q   ("~T -..A                                                                                                                                                                                    -lObRS OBLAST BOUNDARIES
N  "'                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS  -INTERNATIONAL BOUDRE
SLAMIC              _(                                                 Th. b-d-i, -1.0,  I 
REPUBTlC                                          CHINA                 Th- -  Iodo,,1l                          4                                                           1  0 -
OF IRAN    r'   AFGHANISTAN                                             "             C H. .I -   N A -   .'  4 4..        D                                25 M0
AhG-AN N                                             _                                                              _     _D ,S
I  ____________                                            _________________                                                                                                           NOVEMBER 1988~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVEBE 19



