Document oi
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 2 1 5 4 0
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31450; TF-27113; TF-21174; TF-21296; TF-21297; TF-23327)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26,700,000
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
December 21, 2000
Human Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 19, 2000)
Currency Unit = Som
Sorn 1 = US$ 0.02
US$ I = Som 48.5
FISCAL YEAR
January  December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONIYMS
ADB                Asian Development Bank
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                Comprehensive Development Framevwork
EF                 Employment Fund
ES                 Employment Services
ESW                Economic and Sector Worlc
EU                 European Union
FINSAC             Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOK                Government of Kyrgyzstan
IAS                Intemational Accounting Standards
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
MLSP               Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NATSTATKOM         National Statistical Committee
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
PF                 Pension Fund
PRSP               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SA                 Social Assistance
SF                 Social Fund
SOSAC              Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SSNP               Social Safety Net Project
TA                 Technical Assistance
UMB                Unified M:onthly Benefit
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Kiyoshi Kodera, E]CC08
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon, ECSHD
Task Team Leader:  Philip Cioldman, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Information                                                          22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                31






Project ID: P038569                                      Project Name: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Philip S. Goldman                           TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 19. 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Social Sector Adjustment Credit               L/C/TF Number. IDA-31450; TF-27113;
TF-21174; TF-21296;
TF-21297; TF-23327
Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                     Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector. SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/24/97                               Effective: 12/11/98          12/11/98
Appraisal:  09/03/98                                 MTR:
Approval:  12/10/98                               Closing: 10/31/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners: Govermnent of Japan, Government of the Netherlands, Government of
Switzerland, and the European Union
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                            Johannes Linn
Cou2ntby Manager:    Kiyoshi Kodera                            Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:      James C. Lovelace                         Annette Dixon
Team Leader at ICR:  Philip Goldman                           Philip Goldman
ICR Primary Author:  Elliott Hurwitz; Philip Goldman
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



Introduction
The Kyrgyz Republic inherited a social insurance system that was not affordable, equitable, or
compatible with the country's transition to a market econory.. The existing pay-as-you--go
pension system was overly generous in scope, with numerous early retirement and other privileges
that were high in relation to the average wage.
In 1996, the state pension system was restructured under new legislation that gradually phased
out the old earnings-related pension system and replaced it wit]h a system of personal accounts
that would be based on a calcuflation of actual contributions of behalf of individuals. However,
benefits were still quite liberal, and there was a broad variety oF privileges, including those for
early retirement, and generous earnings calculations inherited from the prior system. System
sustainability was further undermined by a drop in formnal sector employment to the point where
the ratio of contributing workers to pensioners dropped to 1.7- 1. The Pension Fund (PF) deficit
reached 1.7 percent of GDP in 1997, exacerbated by payment arrears. The prospect of growing
PF deficits loomed, a troubling prospect in the context of growing overall fiscal deficits: -9.2% in
1997, -9.5% in 1998, -12% in 1999, and a projected -7.5%/'O in 2000 (cash deficit as a percent of
GDP; see Figure 2 below). Fundamental policy changes and iraprovements in management
efficiency were needed if the system was to reduce its fiscal drain and become self-sustaining.
To assist with its transition to a market economy, while at the same time protecting the poor, the
Kyrgyz Republic also needed to improve the effi ciency of its Employment Fund activities. And in
the area of Social Assistance, the government needed to assure that benefits were effectively
targeted, and that those receiving benefits were not adversely affected by planned increases in
housing and utility prices.
The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) was a 2-tranche adjustment operation with
US$18,678,519 equivalent to SDR 13,350,000 disbursed upon effectiveness with the fulfillment
of specified conditions, and a second tranche of US$17,371,687.50 equivalent to SDR
13,350,000 disbursed upon fulfillment of additional conditions. While the preponderance of the
reforms supported by the project dealt with pension reform, there were also conditions relating to
labor market policy and targeting of social assistance. The IDA contribution of US$36.0 million
equivalent was supplemented by substantial co-financing in support of adjustment and technical
assistance: US$20 million equivalent (adjustmeint) and a PHRD Grant for preparation (US $0.5
million) by the Government of Japan; about USS2.6 million equivalent (adjustment) by the
Government of the Netherlands: cofinancing and additional technical assistance in the amount of
US$528,000 by the Government of Switzerland; and parallel financing of around US$1 million by
EU/TACIS.
-2 -



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the SOSAC were to: (1) establish a fiscally sustainable pension scheme that will
provide a stronger linkage between contributions and benefits, while providing a minimum level of
guaranteed support to prevent poverty; (2) improve the effectiveness of labor market
interventions under conditions of high unemployment; and (3) implement effective, well-targeted
and fiscally sustainable programs to alleviate poverty.
Relevance of the Objectives
The relevance of the objectives was High. Adopting policies, regulations, and structural
improvements to modernize the Pension Fund and reduce its deficit was key to helping the
Government improve its fiscal performance and establishing a system consistent with a market
economy. SOSAC was fully consistent with the 1998 CAS, with its emphasis on long-term
sustainable growth to reduce poverty, and with social protection and pension reformn as central
elements of that strategy. The project design aimed squarely at a range of significant measures
that would help restructure the system and bring down this deficit over the short-to-medium term,
and it also introduced a methodology-PROST-that the government can use to analyze the
implications of various long-term pension strategies. SOSAC was also intended to help redirect
pension payments from those with relatively higher incomes to those in poverty.
In the area of Social Assistance (SA), a study performed under SOSAC aimed to assess the extent
to which the means testing fornula for SA benefits was effective in reaching its intended
beneficiaries, and develop recommendations on how to improve targeting so as to benefit the
poor. By laying a foundation for making SA more efficient and poverty-focused, the study was
highly relevant to the nation's development goals.
Finally, SOSAC intended to remove those active labor market interventions that were least
cost-effective, and cap the entire portfolio of active interventions at 35% of Labor Fund
expenditures. All of the SOSAC objectives remain highly relevant to Kyrgyz development
objectives.
Alternative Approaches Considered
During program preparation, there were extensive discussions on the options to be pursued under
pension reform. These discussions were broad ranging and intense. In the early preparation
period, the possibility of exploring the feasibility of a multi-pillar pension scheme (with a
mandatory private component) was raised, given what appeared at the time to be a restoration of
sustainable growth and some development of financial markets. There were also discussions with
counterparts on the respective roles of the Association and Asian Development Bank in
supporting pension reform. The multi-pillar option was eventually rejected in favor of IDA
support for state pension reform, with ADB providing parallel support to assess the feasibility of a
possible private pension scheme in the future.
3.2 Revised Objective:
-3 -



The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Coincident with the objectives, SOSAC activities were concentratecl in three areas:
1.    Pension Reform--Establishing a fiscally sustainable pension scheme to provide a stronger
linkage between contributions and benefits, while providing a mininmum level of guaranteed
support to prevent poverty.
2.    Employment Services--Improving the effectiveness of labor market interventions
3.     Social Assistance-- Implementing effective, well-targeted and fiscally sustainable
programs to alleviate poverty.
As noted earlier, the preponderance of the activity suppoited by the project dealt with pension
reform.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was Highly Satisfactory. The design was sirnple and straightforward--a major
strength--with components and conditionality aimed directly at the sources of the problem. The
two-tranche design was effective. Governmeint commnitment was strong (particularly given the
political difficulties presented by the program), and the project benefited from extensive prior
work done in the sector under the ongoing Social Safety Net Project, especially in the area of
Poverty Monitoring and Social Assistance. Government was heavily involved in project
identification. Project design was based on successful approaches utilized in Poland, Latvia, and
Sweden on benefit calculation that applied well to the Kyrgyz pension system. And the
assumptions on which the project was based were reasonable, as demonstrated by the fact that the
Government was able to implement all of the designated reforms, and the extensive technical
assistance provided was able to assist in (1) increasing Social Fund' collections; and (2)
improving Social Fund administrative capacity.
The Social Fund comprised four parts: the Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Employment Fund, and Health
Insurance Fund. The Pension Fund comprised 84 percent of total SF income (2000), and nearly all of the SF
deficit, as the other funds were largely self-supporting.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcome was Highly Satisfactory, with all major relevant objectives achieved. SOSAC
introduced refonus that directly link a person's pension payments to the amount of his/her lifetime
contributions, instead of work history, as earlier. In addition, eligibility rules were tightened, and
an improved formula for setting benefits was introduced. Finally, measures were taken to reduce
administrative expenses, strengthen management capacity, and broaden the contribution base.
- 4 -



As a result of the measures taken and fiscal discipline observed under the SOSAC-sponsored
reform program, Pension Fund (PF) deficits and payment arrears were substantially reduced.
Transfers from the budget to subsidize the Social Fund (SF) declined from Som 300 million in
1999 to a projected Som 150 million in 2000. In addition, SF arrears were cut from Som 300
million in July, 1999, to Som 56.6 million by end-I 999. Kyrgyz progress in pension reform has
been examined as a model by visiting officials from several CIS republics.
In the area of Employment Services, an assessment was made of active labor market
interventions, those found least cost-effective were eliminated, and the overall program of active
interventions capped at 35% of Employment Fund (EF) expenditure. While all of the SOSAC
objectives were achieved, there was little enthusiasm for some of these measures, and additional
dialogue on structural change is being undertaken under the PRSP exercise currently underway.
In the area of Social Assistance, an assessment was made of the effectiveness of the targeting
methodology, the extent to which benefits were reaching the poor, and recommendations made on
potential improvements.
4.2 Outputs by components:
In accordance with its objectives as stated earlier, SOSAC activities were concentrated in three
areas:
(1)   Pension Reform--Establish a fiscally sustainable pension scheme that will provide a
stronger linkage between contributions and benefits, while providing a minimum level of
guaranteed support to prevent poverty. Achievements in this area included:
Revenue Enhancement
Broader Contribution Base-SF contributors rose from 800,000 individuals in April, 1998, to
1.2 million in November, 1999, through an aggressive program targeting the self-employed and
others in the informal sector.
Social Fund/Tax Inspectorate Cooperation--In a joint effort between the Social Fund and the
Tax Inspectorate, individual identification numbers were assigned to all taxpayers and pension
contributors and beneficiaries. This and other efforts helped to broaden the payroll contribution
base as noted above. (This effort, a SOSAC condition, was supported by the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit TA program, P04563 1).
Additional Revenue Measures
--The Bankruptcy Law was amended to place the SF higher in the hierarchy of creditors of
bankrupt enterprises
--Streamlined procedures were adopted to dispose of property received in settlement of SF
arrears
--In 1999, the cap on contributions was raised from 40 to 100 minimum wages, which measure
alone is estimated to have raised receipts approximately Som 30 to 40 million.
- 5 -



Pension Payment Reform and Streamlininz of PF Management
More Equitable Contributions-A decree was issued that requires pension calculations to be
made using a schedule of coefficients that more accurately and equitably determines pension
payments than the single coefficient used earlier
Higher Retirement Age-An amendment to the Pension Law was passed raising the retirement
age by three years, for men to 63 and for wvomenL to 58 (increases were to be phased in starting
January 1, 1999)
Stricter Disability Criteria--The Social Fund took over responsibility for certifying individuals
eligible for disability pensions from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. Utilizing new
criteria developed under SOSAC, the number of new disability pension claims dropped
substantially.
Improved Financial Management-SOSAC initiated a complete revamping of SF financial
management, which is being carried forward with the assistance of EU/TACIS. All SOSAC
objectives in this area have been achieved. This program has completed the fund's first audit by
an independent outside firm, and of the SF financial management system to comply with
Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS). Measures implemented to date permit more accurate,
transparent financial data, and better decision-rmLaking, which should be systematized at the end of
the Tacis program. Computers, software, and training are being provided that are expected to
automate the system completely by early 2001. (While fumded by EU/TACIS, this
accomplishment was part of SOSAC conditionality)
Reduced Administrative Costs-SF management took a number of steps to reduce
admninistrative costs by streamlining procedures for benefits distribution, and negotiating more
advantageous contracts with vendors (e.g., office maintenance, postal services).
Reduced In-Kind Payments-Payments-in-kind to the SF vvere reduced from 17.8 percent in
1998 to 9.3 percent in 1999 by use of new procedures. Accordingly, in-kind payments of benefits
were reduced from 1 1.1 percent in 1998 to 6.0 percent in 1999
(2) Employment Services--Improve the effectiveness of labor market interventions
An impact assessment of active labor market interventiorns was conducted, and a determination
made that the microcredit and individual entrepreneur programs were the least cost-effective.
Accordingly, the Employment Service eliminated these, and restricted expenditures on all active
interventions to 35% of EF expenditures.
This component, while small relative to pension reform, was difficult to achieve and more work
will be needed in this area. The Ministry of Labor and Employment Services was reluctant to
abandon current active labor market programs, and only closed the two ineffective programs after
some pressure was brought to bear by other Government agencies as the second tranche neared
completion. The PRSP and CAS discussions will be focusing further on the proper mix of active
- 6 -



and passive labor market programs, and on associated implementation issues.
(3) Social Assistance-- Implement effective, well-targeted and fiscally sustainable programs to
alleviate poverty.
An important SOSAC objective was to conduct an assessment of the adequacy of the means
testing formula for Social Assistance, and the effectiveness of the targeting of the Unified Monthly
Benefit. While this study was intended to lay a foundation for later actions to improve the system,
follow-on actions were not included as part of the SOSAC program. The study was conducted as
planned, and found that while some improvement in benefit targeting had been made, significant
areas for improvement remained. Specifically: many resources were given to the non-poor; many
of the extremely poor were left out of the system; and payments in kind comprised about 50% of
total benefits. Reconmnendations included: a reduction in the proportion of benefits paid in kind;
an effort to improve the present targeting criteria; consideration of an increase in the level of the
benefit; redeployment of some MLSP staff; and a review of how to bring MLSP staff closer to
people living in localities with low coverage and severe poverty.
It should also be noted that during the period of SOSAC, the Kyrgyz Republic maintained a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework in accordance with the Credit Agreement, and is in
accordance with its Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility agreement with the IMF. Recent
macroeconomic performance is shown in Figures 1-3.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate a net present value or economic rate of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate a financial rate of return.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact was high. After considerable political and legal wrangling, in
January, 1999, Parliament passed new amendments to the pension law mandating an increase in
the retirement age of 3 years (to be implemented gradually). In addition:
As noted earlier, the Social Fund is undergoing a program to revamp its financial reporting
system to comply with International Accounting Standards (IAS), and has prepared an IAS
conversion key and subjected the system to external audits.
The payroll contribution base was broadened, in part by the assignment of individual
identification numbers to all taxpayers and pension contributors and beneficiaries.
Pension calculations are now made using a schedule of coefficients that more accurately
and equitably determines pension payments than the single coefficient used earlier
Amendments to the bankruptcy law placed the Social Fund higher in the hierarchy of
creditors of bankrupt enterprises, increasing fund collections
- 7 -



*     A decision was taken regulating the collection and sale of property seized to settle social
insurance contribution arrears, which resulted in increased collections
*     The cap on contributions was raised from 40 to 100 times the minimum wage, resulting in
increased 1999 receipts of around Som 30 to 40 million.
The Social Fund took over responsibility for certifying individuals eligible for disability
pensions from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protectiorn. L[tilizing new criteria developed
under SOSAC, the number of new disability pension clairns dropped substantially.
*     The Pension Fund acquired from IDA a pension policy model-PROST-which (with
associated training) enables the government to assess the long-term fiscal and social impact of
pension policy options. Using this model, several medium-term scenarios from have been
developed by the SF and used by the Prime Minister's office.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.J Factors outside the control ofgovernmeni or implementing agency:
Exogenous factors negatively affected Kyrgyz economic performance during the SOSAC project.
Kyrgyz trade with Russia fell in the aftermatlh of the crisis in that country in August, 1998, and
trade relations with Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan deteriorated as well. And a fall in gold prices
lowered the value of Kyrgyz exports.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Pension System Administrative Crisis--In 1998, Parliament passed an amendment to the
Pension Law providing for an increase in the retirement age, increasing at the rate of six months
per year, and a reduction of 50 percent in payments to working pensioners. Later, Parliament
reconsidered this action and reduced the rate of change to four months per year (which was
acceptable to the Association), but, in an effort to restore the six-months-per-year increase, the
President vetoed the second measure. In September, 1998, the Constitutional Court declared both
the Government and Parliamentary amendments unconstitutional, and threw the pension system
into crisis.
In January, 1999, the Constitutional Court issued an amencled opiinion ruling out pension cuts for
working pensioners, but permitting retirement age increases, whereupon the Parliament passed
new amendments raising the retirement age 'by four months per year. This resolved the pensior.
system administrative crisis and met the SOSAC condition,
However, the new amendments changed provisions of the pension formula in ways that were
incompatible with SOSAC. The Association fielded two emergency missions to help develop
terms that were in compliance with the reforms, and which would bolster pension system viability.
Eventually, in September, 1999, the Government proposed and the Parliament passed reforms
consistent with the SOSAC program.
Turnover Among Policy Officials--Turnover among policy officials somewhat hampered project
- 8 -



progress. During the relatively brief period of the project, there were 3 directors of the Social
Fund and 3 Ministers of Labor and Social Protection.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency control:
Since project implementation was performed by the goverrnent (Ministry of Finance), these
factors have been described above.
5.4 Costs andfinancingg:
SOSAC became effective in December, 1998, as planned, and was closed in June, 2000, eight
months later than expected, mainly due to delays in the passage of required legislation as
described earlier. The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) was a 2-tranche adjustment
operation with US$18,678,519 equivalent to SDR 13,350,000 disbursed upon effectiveness with
the fulfillment of specified conditions, and a second tranche of US$17,371,687.50 equivalent to
SDR 13,350,000 disbursed upon fulfillment of additional conditions in May 2000. The IDA
contribution of US$36.5 million equivalent was supplemented by co-financing in the amount of
US$20 million (adjustment), and a PHRD Grant for preparation (US $0.5 million) by the
Government of Japan; about US$2.6 million (adjustment) by the Government of the Netherlands:
cofinancing and additional technical assistance in the amount of US$528,000 by the Government
of Switzerland; and parallel financing of about US$1 million by EU/TACIS.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
On balance, sustainability is assessed as likely. The government has repeatedly shown its
commitment to reform, even when it was challenged by the Parliament or by the Constitutional
Court, as described earlier. The fiscal challenges facing the government are unlikely to abate,
making the pension savings that have been achieved as important as ever. And the dialogue with
the Association on issues surrounding the reforms achieved by SOSAC will continue because the
government has agreed to participate as a pilot for the Comprehensive Development Framework
(CDF), and is also developing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
Additional factors bolstering sustainability include the considerable legal reforms accomplished
under SOSAC, which are unlikely to be rolled back, and the independent audit of the SF, and its
conversion to IAS, as described earlier. In addition, the IMF program includes the periodic
assessment of the nation's fiscal balance.
At the same time, pension reform is politically difficult to achi,eve and sustain, and the system will
face continued pressures that could threaten the position of the Social Fund. There are two
particular concerns: (i) Parliament has still not passed indexation legislation drafted and submitted
under SOSAC, leaving open the door to unsustainable and politically driven increases; and (ii) the
Social Fund still requires much strengthening to improve its efficiency, transparency, and
flexibility in managing the system. One action that already occurred that may indicate a lower
resilience to risk is the 20 percent increase in pensions granted in August, 2000 (in the context of
expected 2000 inflation of 13 percent and during the leadup to the presidential elections). While
this type of periodic increase has in the past been the means by which pensions have been adjusted
for inflation, a 20 percent increase was deemed excessive by IDA, which favored a 10 percent
increase followed by a possible 5 percent increase in 2001 if there was no rise in arrears. The
-9-



Association engaged in an intensive dialogue with the government oni this issue but the
government ultimately imnplemented the 20 percent increase. The increase reversed the prior trend
that had led to the elimination of arrears, and could also delay future reductions in the payroll
contribution rate that would be economically beneficial.
The Goverrnent has reported that it expects Parliamentary approval of the indexation legislation,
but formal consideration has been persistently doolayed and IDA will keep this issue on the table as
part of its dialogue with the Government.
To sum up, the strong Government ownership of the program and the likelihood of continued
adherence to the key reform provisions should be tempered by a realistic assessment of the
political and institutional pressures to be faced by the SF.
6.2 Transition arrangemnenit to regular operations:
For the most part, the Kyrgyz Republic is implementing measures introduced during SOSAC as
part of its usual governmental functions. However, in several areas, the Association is continuing
to provide technical advice and support. These: include social assistance, indexation of pensions
(with the IMF, which has included this area in its program for the Kyrgyz Republic), and technical
work with Natstatkom. In addition, under the recently approved Consolidated Structural
Adjustment Credit, the Association will continue to work with Kyrgyz Republic agencies on a
range of social issues. In the context of the forthcoming CDF, CA S and PRSP exercises, the
Government and Association will also assess the need for fuither 'SF institutional strengthening,
and the role that IDA and its partners can play in providing support.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Ba.nk
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending was highly satis,factory. As noted earlier, the project was
well-targeted in addressing the Kyrgyz Republic's problem of having an overly generous,
inequitable, and unsustainable pension system. In addition, SOSAC aimed squarely at poverty
reduction and fiscal improvement in each area of its activity: pension reform, Employment Fund
efficiency, and Social Assistance targeting. These subjects are also at the core of the governmenit'
s development strategy and the CAS. Interviews with government officials elicited the view that
the project--although politically challenging--was "important and necessary for the country's
continued economic progress," and confirmed that government was extensively involved in
project identification.
Project design was simple and straightforward. which contributed to its effectiveness. The
two-tranche design provided ample incentive to achieve projected reforms, and this design was a
key element in the project's success. However, the location of the implementing agency in the
Ministry of Finance presenited some difficulties (explainied in "Lessons Leamed" below).
SOSAC provided technical assistance for project preparation, ar.d the project team was
technically well qualified in the areas addressed. Additional technical assistance was provided (or
arranged) for the assessment of benefits targeting, efficiency of labor market intervention, and
enhancement of SF financial management. This assistance was citical to the achievement of
- 10 -



project goals. Close relations were maintained with bilateral lenders, as well as with the IMF and
the ADB.
While there was a good and consistent dialogue between the Kyrgyz Govenmment and the SOSAC
team, reaching a shared understanding was not always easy. There were intensive discussions on
(i) the structure and level of the base pension required to alleviate poverty without over-extending
system liabilities; (ii) the table of actuarial coefficients to be used to calculate the pension, with the
Association endorsing a more restrictive standard than the Government; and (iii) what package of
measures would be necessary to increase revenues and contain costs during 1999 to meet the
SOSAC fiscal targets, even as the Government faced external pressures to raise pensions. The
Government's SOSAC ICR contribution (attached) suggests that the measures that were
eventually adopted were fully understood and eventually 'owned' by the Government, with the
possible exception of some of the active labor market measures.
It should be noted that securing and managing the technical assistance was extremely difficult
under the framework of an adjustment operation, and all the more so in a country with weak
capacity to manage external assistance. There were extended delays in procuring and
implementing certain key TA inputs (social assistance targeting and active labor market policy
assessment) that held up the program, and managing so much parallel bilateral TA was time
consuming and expensive (see "Lessons Learned" below).
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was highly satisfactory. Borrower officials described supervision as active and strict,
working closely with the Government to assure compliance with project conditionality and
facilitate a positive outcome. Close supervision was most needed in the context of the pension
system administrative crisis, as described earlier. When the Constitutional Court declared the
actions of both the Government and Parliamentary amendments unconstitutional, the action threw
the pension system into crisis. The Association fielded two emergency missions to help develop
terms that were in compliance with the reforms, and which would bolster pension system viability.
Eventually, in September, 1999, the Government proposed and the Parliament passed reforms
consistent with the SOSAC program.
The supervision team closely reflected project requirements, consisting of a Program Team
Leader, Social Protection Specialist, Pension Policy Expert, Policy Modeling Expert, and
Operations Officer. The Borrower complemented the Bank's performance in supervision by
stating that the project team was efficient, highly professional, and "kept the program on track."
7.3 Overall Bank perfonnance:
Based on the discussion above, overall Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
Borrowver
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. Government comnmitment was
high, and participation in project identification and preparation was extensive. However, the
process of determining the locus of the project implementation unit was lengthy and difficult, and
the eventual location (Ministry of Finance) was less than ideal (see "Lessons Learned" below).
- 11 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The SOSAC project was not
politically popular. The Kyrgyz Republic counterpart ministries and agencies showed
considerable fortitude in pursuing policies that, while not having an immediate political appeal,
were in the medium-term and long-run best interest of the nation.
However, the actions of the Legislature and the Constitutional Court, described earlier, delayed
the project, made achievement of project goals more difficult, and iacreased the need for
Association supervision. Sorne significant delays in implementation resulted from the lack of
clarity on the roles and responsibilities of the SOSAC Coordinator's office. Finally, turnover
among Borrower policy officials and working-level staff made implementation more difficult.
Therefore, on balance considering the actions of all of the counterpart agencies involved,
Government implementation performance was deemed satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. However, as discussed later, the
agency had many other responsibilities, and had limited capabilities, e.g., for procurement and
donor coordination, which somewhat reduced its effectiveness.
7.7 Overall Borrrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Administration of SOSAC through a PCU Would Have Been More Effective-SOSAC was
administered by a unit of the Ministry of Finance, which had many other responsibilities and had
limited capabilities for, e.g., procurement and donor coordination. The SOSAC Coordinator's
office in the MoF played a useful role as a liaison between the Bank and the counterpart agencies
on implementing the overall program. This arrangement was less satisfactory with respect to the
TA programn, as the roles and responsibilities of the Coordinator's Office and a Project
Coordination Unit that was administering other projects and that was assigned to the SOSAC
were not always clear. In retrospect, it would have been rnore effective to establish a PCU to
administer the project. One possibility was for the PCU to have been located within the agency
most involved with the SOSAC, the Social Fund, an arrangemernt which would have made the
substantive knowledge of the SF more accessible. Alternatively, a PCU could have been
independent of any agency, as in the earlier Social Safety Net Project. A PCU could have focused
more closely on the project--with fewer distractions--and would have had greater flexibility in
administration.
It was Difficult to Manage Extensive TA Under the Context of an Adjustment Operation --
This issue is discussed in section 7.1. The lessons learned from the difficulties of the SOSAC TA
program played a part in the decision to establish a full TA investment operation to support
implementation of the Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit (FY00).
A Simple, Highly-focused Project Design was Effective--SOSAC was narrowly targeted, with
its greatest emphasis and most conditionality focused on the pension area. In a highly
controversial and politicized area, this narrow focus 'was quite effective.
- 12 -



A Larger Public Awareness Program Would Have Been Useful--The measures implemented
under SOSAC were in many cases politically sensitive. For example, increases in the retirement
age and changes in certain categories of benefit privileges were brought to the attention of
parliamentarians by constituents. It probably would have been useful to have implemented a
larger effort-and an earlier effort-to explain to the public why the changes were being made,
and why it would ultimately benefit an individual to contribute to the system.
A Tight Focus on Project Legal Commitments was Important--As noted earlier, there was
substantial tumover among Kyrgyz policy officials during SOSAC. With each newly appointed
official, the Bank team reviewed the obligations to which the government had agreed, a process
that was imnportant in maintaining the momentum of reform.
Greater Attention Should have been Accorded to the "Political Economy of Change"-
SOSAC issues related to the Constitutional Court legal proceedings and the subsequent
Parliamentary debates suggest that future operations might devote specific attention to the
"ipolitical economy of change." A comment by Social Fund officials during ICR preparation
suggested that the Government might have expended disproportionate amounts of political capital
on policies that saved relatively little money, i.e., by requiring that pensioners who still work
should still receive only half of their pensions. Downstream operations might undertake a more
explicit analysis of: (1) the receptivity of major political groups to the changes being sought; (2)
public education and outreach programs required to reach interested stakeholders; and (3)
elements of the project design that could appeal to stakeholders ("what's in it for me?"). In this
calculus, the Association would make an independent effort to assess potential Parliamentary
support for reforn steps that are being formulated as tranche conditions dependent on
Parliamentary action. Components of the project could then be explicitly designed with these
factors in mind.
The Next Stage of Pension Reform Should Address the Rural Population-SOSAC focused
on strengthening the Pay-as-you-Go pension system. The logical next stage of pension reform
should address the rural population, where contributions are low (meaning that future benefits
might also be low). There is a range of options that should be considered, including the
possibility of shifting rural contributors onto a different scheme. This issue was raised by the
Government during the CDF consultations and discussed with IDA, and further dialogue will
likely ensue under the forthcoming PRSP and CAS discussions.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
STATE COMMITTEE FOR FOREIGN INVESTMENTS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
# 11/1700                                               15.12.2000
To the World Bank Resident Mission
in the Kyrgyz Republic
- 13-



The State Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic for Foraign Investrnents and economic development has
thoroughly studies the World Bank report on the SCISAC project and concludes that objectives of the
project are correctly defined. Besides, this project has been realistLc and important for the Kyrgyz
Republic and critical for the continuation of reforms in the social sector of the republic. The project can
be characterized as affordable and streamlined thus promoting its effectiveness as the objectives and
goals of the projects' components have been made clear from the very outset.
After making certain amendments, and also after the Constitutional Court of the Kyrgyz Republic has
canceled amendments to the Lawv "On the state pension social insurance" the Jogorku Kenesh of the
Kyrgyz Republic has approved the Law "On making amendments to the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic"
On the state pension social insurance". Amendments to this law provide for the following:
*      Extension of the retirement age by three years as of January 1, 2007 ( by 4 months per year),
which means that since January 1, 1999, the retirement age will be extended by 4 months every year so
that by January 1, 2007, the retirement age for women has reached 58 years and for men - 63 years;
Working pensioners are paid their pensions in full regardless of their current income;
Establishment of a mechanism of annual adjustment of personal pension accounts by 75% of
the growth rate of salaries.
In addition the Social Fund of the Kyrgyz Republic has brought its accounting system in compliance
with international accounting standards. The taxable base has been increased through the establishment
of individual identification policies for all taxpayers, pension account holders and beneficiaries. In
order to comply with the conditions of the credit, tlhe Social Fund has liquidated its arrears in payment
of pensions, has improved the administration of revenues of the Social Fund, and also the subsidies
from the State Budget have been reduced down to 300 - 400 mln som.
Project performance has been satisfactory for all the principle objectives of the project have been
achieved. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic; within the frameworlc of this project has introduced
and implemented reforms which have linked pensions to the contributions made by citizens, rather than
to the number of years worked as previously. In addition the rules have been made stricter and an
improved formula has been introduced for the pension assessment.
In the sector of the employment service, the assessment of active labor market programs has been made
and some of the most inefficienlt measures have been removed.,
In this sector the instructions for the application of the Provisions "On the procedures and terms of
registration, paymnent of unemployment benefits and stipends for the unemployed citizens during their
vocational training, re - training and in - service training" have been developed and conveyed to
responsible agencies.
A new law "On promotion of the employment of the population" has been developed within the
framework of the project. A number of new provisions has been prepared in order to improve the
perforrnance of the Employment Fund, specifically:
On the Employment Promotion Fund;
On organization of paid social work;
On the procedures of granting financial assistance and micro - credits to the unemployed by the
Employment Service offices for purposes of organization of professional training of unemployed
citizens.
Some changes have been made in the budget of the Employment Fund, in order to re - allocate some
- 14 -



expenditures through the reduction of expenditures for the self - employment activities and micro -
credit programs for unemployed.
Currently the budget of the employment promotion for the year 2000 provides not more than 33 % of
the total budget for the active labor market programs and so keeps the expenditures related to the
active labor market programs below 35 %, as conditioned by the World Bank.
One has to emphasize that the actual process of the project implementation has been very difficult as
the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has been forced to make unpopular decisions in order to
comply with the conditions of the credit. This refers to the issues of the retirement age extension,
establishment of the base element of pensions, reduction of privileges within the pension legislation,
terms of adjustment of the general size of pensions; payment of pensions to working pensioners,
tightening up the criteria for the establishment of disability.
Amendments made into the Law "On the state pension social insurance" were received negatively by the
Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic as well as the population. Especially the older part of the population
still expresses a lot of disappointment.
In light of this the Government has significantly increased its activities aimed at education about the
goals and objectives of the pensions reform, which led to some insignificant but positive results. Some
of the problems which occurred in relation to the fulfillment of conditions for the credit tranches were
taken into consideration.
In conclusion let me express the sincere gratitude to the World Bank for the assistance in the
development of economic and social reforms in the Kyrgyz Republic as well as a request to take a
deeper study of the external and internal situation in the country as well as the actual social status of
the population and mentality of the multi - ethnic population of the Kyrgyz Republic in consideration of
the institutional adjustments in the republic.
Respectfully,
First Deputy Chairman              Moldokulov
World Bank
Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic presents the Government's appraisal on the SOSAC Project
objectives achievement and its output impact.
The Project' realization was initially planned in 5 areas:
-      Pension Reform
-      Healthcare Reform
-      Education Reform
-      Labor and Employment Market
-      Social Assistance
In order to strengthen the Project effectiveness it was decided to emphasize three major directions.
Description of Project Objectives:
- 15 -



The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) was aimed to support the Government's efforts in
improvement of effectiveness and validity of social insurance and assistance through reforms in order to:
-      (1) establish a fiscally sustainable pension scheme that will provide a stronger linkage between
contributions and benefits while providing a minimum level of guaranteed support to prevent poverty;
-      (2) improve effectiveness and validity of labor market under conditions of high unemployment;
-      (3) implement effective, well-targeted and fiscally sustainable programs to alleviate poverty.
The Implementing Agency was Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic. The Project policy
realization measures were performed by Ministry of Finance, Social Fund, Employment Fund, Ministry of
Labor and Social Protection and Natstatkom Committee.
Objective Assessment?
As stated prior the emphasis on concrete issues, concrete objectives and achievement measures has
been further justified. It's noteworthy that programme loans are used to be more effectively realized. In this
case the SOSAC Project realization has practically achieved its goals, met all the terms and succeeded as a
whole.
The positive moment was that the Project has been realized as a programme loan and relatively the
term implementation were linked to tranche payments and on track by the Implementing Agency and
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. Ministries and agencies have implemented measures in various areas
within their functional duties and supported by international and local consultants contracted within the
Grants of the Governments of Japan and Switzerland.
In this respect we would like to mention a huge assistance to the Implementing Agency by Philip
Goldman, Team Leader, World Bank and his group supporting the Project Grant. It positively affected on
avoiding consulting services additional credit resources attraction.
Below the components are presented:
1.     Pension Reform - a number of law draft addenda (higher retirement age, privileges reduction,
administration improvement) on the Social Fund financial condition improvement (see attached list). Based
on the Project terms during 1999-2000 pension arrears were reduced from Som 165.2 million in 1999 to
Som 56.6 million in 2000. As it was targeted by the Project the budget subvention was reduced from Som
344 million in 1998 to 0 in 2001.
2.     Social Assistance - a number of measures to optimize expenditures on benefit payments to citizens
with low income. As a result there is benefit beneficiary number reduction and corresponding benefit
payment expenditures (see below dynamics).
1997           1998            1999
Number of benefit beneficiaries             709,4           650,2          558,8
lExpenditures                               305,4           243,0          419,0*
* - The expenditures growth in 1999 did not take place under beneficiaries number increase but due
to the addenda introduction to the Law "On the state benefits in the Kyrgyz Republic" outlined the benefit
payment to families with children under 1,5 years and born disables.
- 16 -



The Project was Clear, Realistic and Crucial for the Country?
Originally the component objectives and tasks were clearly assigned. From the point of actual
realization the Project was tricky and complex due to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic had to
undertake unpopular measures on the Project terms realization.
It refer to the following issues:
*      retirement age increase, determination of the base pension portion and actuarial k coefficient,
benefit reduction on pension legislation, pension indexation term change, payments to working pensioners,
stricter disability criteria;
*      Employment Fund budget reduction to reallocate funds for professional training, paid public works
and other labor market programs within prior established total Employment Fund budget;
*      addenda to Provision on aggregate family income to assign low income benefits
The Project Components were aimed at Objective Achievement in appropriate way?
The Project components were actually aimed at the Project objectives achievement.
Appropriate Lessons were Learned?
The Social Fund and Ministry of Labor and Social Protection were strictly conditioned for credit
tranche release. Predetermiined measures and emphasis on the Project policy explanation via Mass Media,
TV etc. were needed, e.g. on all introduced addenda to certain legislative and normative acts in social area,
since in future the addenda introduced to the Law "On State Pension and Social Insurance" were opposed
by the deputies, non-governmental organizations and population including pensioners. Due to the above the
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and Social Fund had to strengthen the activity on explanation of the
Pension reform objectives and tasks upon appropriate amendments to the active legislation.
Problems and separate negative moments arose during the implementation were considered and
appropriate conclusions were drawn.
The Project Operations Quality Assessment at the initial phase?
At the initial phase of the Project realization the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the
Kyrgyz Republic acted as Irnplementing Agency. Once there was a realization delay tendency there was a
decision on the Project administration assignation to the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Owing to the Implementing Agency efforts as well as the World Bank experts under the log frame matrix
the Project was directed at the appropriate turn.
Output/Objective Achievement Assessment?
In general the Project achieved its objectives. As noted prior within the Project goal framework a
pension arrears was reduced, the Social Fund revenue administration was improved and the republican
budget subventions to the Social Fund were reduced to Som 300-400 million. The number of benefit
beneficiaries was reduced, the benefit payment beneficiary was strengthened and the expenditure reduction
was achieved. In general the Project was succeeded and economically effective.
Outputs of each component?
Tranche release conditions:
- 17 -



1. Retirement age increase  Pursuant to the Law "On introduction of addenda to the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "
of 4 months per year      On the State Benefits in the Kyrgyz Republic" as of February 11, 1999 ' 22 retirement
age is increased of 3 years by January 1, 2007 (4 months per year) and it means that
from January 1,1999 retirement age is increasing of 4 months per year and from
January 1, 2007 female retirement age will be 58 and male retirement age will be 63
2. Changes to the pension  Approved Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On introduction of addenda and amendment to
formula   (actuarial  k   the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On State: Pension Social Insurance" as of October
coefficient, base pension)  19, 1999 l 113 reflected the changes to the pension forrnula and base pension size.
3. Draft law on privileges  Draft Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On introduction of addenda to the Law of the
and indexation submission  Kyrgyz Republic "On State Pension and Social Insurance" envisaging the total pension
to the Jogorku Kenesh     indexation mechanism according to the CPI and average wage increase in the last 12
months prior to indexation under certain conditions. The law is submitted to the
Jogorku Kenesh of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Also on January 19, 2000 Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On introduction of addenda
and amendment to the Law of the Ky-gyz Republic "On State Pension Social
Insurance" ' 29 was approved and envisages the expenditures associated with early
retirement of mothers with 5 and more children, bom disables under 8 years are
financed by the republican budget until the zgenerally established aged.
4. Disability Certification  The Social Fund Order on total documentEation inventory on disability assessment and
Assessment  and  Action   certification.
Plan                      Resolution of the Government as of December 12, 1998 l 838 approved classification
and temporary criteria utilized during the medical-labor examination. Under the Swiss
TA Grant the international consulting group was in charge for the disability
certification.
On January 25-26, 2000 within the frame-work of the Swiss TA Grant there was a
seminar on " Disability policy systerm models and improvements" with participation of
representatives of the Social Fund, Ministry of Finance, the President's Administration,
the Prime Minister's Office. The: intematicnal consultant considering the seminar notes
and proposals has drawn a final conclusions, recommendations and action plan. The
Social Fund of the Kyrgyz Republic is implementing the action plan.
5.  The    Social  Fund   In order to make the transition of the Social Fund accounts to Intemational Accounting
reporting  transition  to  Standards the following measures were implemented:
International  Accounting  - the Social Fund accounts audit run by "PricewaterhouseCoopers" with a relevant
Standards (IAS)           reporting;
- the Social Fund has developed a program on recommendation realization and failures
elimination detected by the auditors of "PricewaterhouseCoopers";
- a new chart of accounts (on major classes and groups) was completed, a transition
table from current to new chart of accounts and accounts description were developed;
- reports 1998 and 1999 were transferred to Intemational Accounting Standards



6.    Pension    Policy  In the beginning of this year the final version of the PROST analysis was developed
Assessment (PROST)       defining the long-term (20-30 years) pension system change tendencies (selection of
pension insurance system, accumulative system criteria assessment, accumulative
system introduction opportunity). Based on this model an automated budget calculation
of the Social Fund on both revenues and expenditures while introducing separate
changes or their design.
7. Social Fund    Fiscal  As it was outlined by the Project:
Position.  Social  Fund  - in 1999 the Social Fund was subvented in amount of Som 300 million
deficit target           - under the 2000 budget a subvention to the Social Fund in amount of Som 150
million is approved
- under the 2001 draft budget no subvention to the Social Fund is planned
8. Labor Market Active   Due to the approval of the Law "On Employment Assistance" the Ministry of Labor
Programs       Revision  and Social Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic has developed the following provisions:
budgeted     for    the    "On Employment Fund"
Employment Fund in 1999    "On Paid Public Services Organization"
and exclusion ineffective  "On Order of the Employment Services' Self Employment Program and Microcredit
programs     in     the  Program"
Employment Fund budget   * "On Unemployed Population Training Organization"
Within the framework of the Swiss TA Grant the intemational consultant has made an
assessment on labor market employment programs effectiveness in the Kyrgyz
Republic. The Steering Council on State Social Insurance considered the reports and
measures on March 14, 2000. As a result a decision on addenda to the Employment
Fund budget was made by expenditures reallocation: cessation of the employment
services' self-employment program and microcredit program to unemployed
population. The released funds were allocated for professional training, paid public
services organization and other labor market programs within the preapproved total
amount of the Employment Fund budget.
On February 2, 2000 there was a seminar on labor market active policy review of the
Kyrgyz Republic. The international consultant considering the seminar notes and
proposals has made a final report and recommendations. The Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic is implementing these recommendations.
9. Planned Payments for  The Employment Fund budget in 2000 envisages the expenditures on labor market
Labor   Market   Active  active programs not more than 33% of total budget, i.e. do not exceed the budgeted
Programs  out   of  the  35%. Also the Employment Fund 2001 draft budget adheres these control indicators.
Employment Fund budget
in 2000 should total not
more than 35% of the total
budgeted expenditures.
- 19-



10.   Unified  Monthly
Benefit (UMB) Beneficiary
Mechanism Effectiveness
Analysis       including
Identification       of
Altemative Approach and
Measures     on     the
Mechanism Effectiveness
Increase
Institutional Development Impact?
During the Project implementation the ministries and aLgencies involved in the Project jointly with
the international and local consultants, the World Bank staff have strengthen the activity on detection of
available real opportunities, reserves and personnel training on independent analysis, monitoring, design
and long-term forecast based on the acquired experience.
The Social Fund has performed an expedient activity on insurance contribution collection,
insurance contribution base amplification and previous arrears collection. As a result the Social Fund
budget financial position has been improved expressed in pension arrears and republican budget
subventions reduction. The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic has been
active in detection of ineffective programs financed by the Employment Fund, development of a number of
new provision on the Employment Fund activity and beneficiary mechanism effectiveness improvement.
Major Impact Factors of the Project Imuplementatiton and Outputs?
The major factors that input on the Project implementation and outputs were (1) the Project was
implemented as a program loan. The project was rnanaged by the Interdepartmental Council chaired by the
Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic with the membership of top management of Ministries and
agencies involved in the Project implementation. (2) Accurate trance payment conditions and terms.
The following outputs are succeeded:
insurance contribution collection improvement;
insurance arrears collection by collection requirements, property auction sale to cover the insurance
contribution, arrears restructurisation, bankruptcy process initiating;
ensurance of complete coverage by personal employed insurance payers accounting by ID numbers
and individual insurance accounts opening in joint effort with Starie Tax Inspectorate;
development of pensioners support forms through privatized enterprise share income;
retirement age increase and expenditures reduction;
development of insurance contribution collection from persons employed in fanning and individual
activity;
cap on contributions increase from 40 minimnum wages to 100;
expenses reduction on self-employment and microcredit to unemployed population and allocation
of the released funds for professional training, paid public services organization etc.;
introduction of fuel compensation for low income citizens;
pension security legislation improvement.
Most issues related to the legislation improvement were accompanied by certain problems. The
- 20 -



problem laid in amendments and addenda approval to the legislative acts by the Jogorku Kenesh of the
Kyrgyz Republic: retirement age, actuarial k coefficient, base pension portion in the amount of Som 200
etc.
Factors Controlled by the Government in general?
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic controlled over the issues related to all legislative
amendments introduction via the Jogorku Kenesh.
Factors Controlled by the Project Implementing Agency in general?
The Implementing Agency namely the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic controlled over
the areas stipulated by the Credit Agreement between the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and IDA.
The hnplementing Agency has assigned the Project National Co-ordinator (T.B.Kalimbetova). The Project
National Co-ordinator was in charge for the follow-up of Project implementation, Grant Assistance and
TA.
The Project Sustainability Assessment?
The Project Sustainability can be assessed as Satisfactory.
The World Bank Performance Assessment?
Preparation - Satisfactory
Supervision and follow-up - Top qualified
As a whole the Project should be considered as the most effective one
The Borrowers Performance Assessment?
It is reasonable to mention that the Ministries and agencies have fully realized their potential during
the Project implementation process. They performed rather extensive and integrated.
On behalf of all agencies involved in the Project implementation the Ministry of Finance of t,he
Kyrgyz Republic would like to express its gratitude to the World bank Team and Team Leader Mr. Philip
Goldman for their assistance in the Project implementation.
Respectfully yours,
First Deputy Minister                                  E.Toromyrzaev
(b) Cofinanciers:
fc) Other partners fNGOs/private sector):
- 21 -



10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndlcator/MawLx                    Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimata
Reduced fiscal expenditure on pensions in  Som 300 million deficit in 1999 with no  completed
1999 (target: defici of Social Fund no higher increase in arrears, Som 150 million deficit in
than Som 300 million, and no higher than  2000 budget
Som 150 million in 2000 budget);
Implementation of reform package aiming to  Full package of reforms as outlined in DCA  completed
ensure longer term fiscal sustainability and  and Supplemental Letter 2 passed by
improved linkages between contributions and Parliament and implemented by Social Fund.
benefits.
Employment Fund budget shows         1999 expenditures on active labor market  completed
expenditures on active labor market  programs no higher than 35 percent of total
programs                             expenditure of the Employment Fund, or in
2000 budget plan. Ineffective programs not
included in 2000 budget plan.
Employment Fund supports only those  2000 budget only includes those programs  completed
programs deemed successful           assessed as cost-effective.
Social assistance system utilized to  New policy implemented and compensation  completed
compensate poor for utility price increases  made to those most poor
under new means tested benefit
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                ActualLatest Estimat
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraiisal  ActualLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             UB$ mIlion   US$ million
Component 1: Establishing a fiscally sustainable pension  17.00    27.63        162.3
scheme that will provide a stronger linkage between
contributions and benefits, while providing a minimumri level
of guaranteed support to prevent poverty;
Component 2: Improving the effectiveness of labor mLarket  9.00    14.63         162.3
interventions under conditions of high unemployment.
Component 3: Implementation of effective, well-targeted  9.00      14.63         162.3
and fiscally sustainable programs to alleviate poverty.
Total Baseline Cost                                 35.00          56.89
Total Project Costs             35 00          56.89
Total Financing Required             35.00          56.89
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Othod        N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other' 
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.0(         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.0()       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00        0.0(         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.01))      (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.OC')
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0. 0)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
,_______________________  (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Note: There were no procurements under the SOSAC project. All project funds were balance of payment
support.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I               Procurement Method _
Expenditure Category  J   ICB          NCB      _  O_                      Total(ost
- 24 -



1. Works                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Go%t.      CoF.       Bank      GoLt.      CoF.     Bank   Go%i.   CoF.
Project                   36.00                23.60                                     0.0            0.0
- 25 -



Annex 3; Economic Costs and Benefits
n/a
- 26



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(c.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year     Count      Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/13/96                      3   Principal Operations Officer,
Public Sector Reform Specialist,
Macroeconomist
04/02/97                      6    Principal Operations Officer,
Macroeconomist, Social Policy
Expert, Training/ Employment
(consultant), Poverty Monitoring
Expert, Operations Officer/RM,
John Innes, Janybek Amorov
09/17/97                      6    Principal Operations Officer,
Pension Policy Specialist,
Macroeconomist, Social Policy
Expert, Training/ Employment
(consultant), Poverty Monitoring
Expert, Operations Officer/RM)
01/11/97                      1   Labor Economist
01/31/98                      4    TM, Operations Officer,
Macroeconomist, Operations
Officer/RM
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/06/98                      6   TM, Poverty Monitoring
Expert, Operations Officer,
Operations Officer/RM,
Pension Modeling Expert,
Pension Policy and
Administration Expert
09/10/98                      4    TM, Operations Officer/RM,
Pension Modeling Expert,
Pension Policy and
Administration Expert
Supervision
01/19/99                      5   TM, Operations Officer/RM,          S                 S
Pension Policy and
Administration Expert,
Economist
03/22/99                      4   TM, Operations Officer/RM,          S                 S
Pension Modeling Expert,
Pension Policy and
Administration Expert
07/16/99                      5   TM, Operations Officer/RM,          S                 S
Pension Modeling Expert,
Pension Policy and
Administration Expert, Social
Protection Sepcialist
- 27 -



11/30/99                     5   TM, Operations Officor/R.M,        S                 S
Pension Modeling Expert,
Pension I'olicy and
Administration Expert, Social
Protection, Specialist
ICR
10/10/00                     I    ICR Consultant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  A ctual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             USS (O000)
Identification/Preparation              49.0                      174.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    8.9                       31.3
Supervision                             29.5                      103.5
ICR                                      4.6                       24.4
Total                                   92.0                      333.3
- 28 -



Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
D Sector Policies                      OH    OSUOM      O N  O NA
D Physical                             OH    OSUOM     ON    * NA
OI Financial                           O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
E Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
LII Environmental                      O H   O SU O M  O N   * NA
Social
3Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
DGender                          O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
OI Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H   O SU * M   0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM     ON    O NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
D Lending                                            * HSOS        OU OHU
L Supervision                                        *HS O5        OU    OHU
O Overall                                            * HS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperfornance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS IDS       O  U  O HU
L Government implementation performance              O HS * S      O  U  0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS        O u   O HU
L Overall                                            OHS OS        O  U  O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Ludovico Carraro, Natstatkom, "Effectiveness of Social Assistance in the Kyrgyz Republic,"
March, 2000
Wolfgang Schwegler-Romeis, "Review of Active Labour Market Policy in Kyrgyzstan,"
December, 1999
Amit Dar and Zafiris Tzannatos, "Active Labor Market Programs: Review of Evidence from
Evaluations"
TACIS, "Social Insurance Reform in Kyrgyzstan: Audit," n.d.
Daniel Hewitt (IMF), "Pension Reform in the Kyrgyz Republic: IS an Increase in the Retirement
Age Needed?"
July 25, 1997
Pedro Rodriguez, "Kyrgyz Republic Sources of Growth Study: Issues for Discussion," June 3,
1999
Alan Abrahart, "Kyrgyz Republic: Strengthening Labor Market Policy Development," August,
1998
Alan Abrahart, "Kyrgyz Republic: A Note on Post-Employment Training," August, 1998
- 31 -









CATALOGUERSIFILE
Report No.:      21540
Type:    ICR



