Report No. PID6602
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Social Sector Adjustment
Credit (SOSAC)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Human Development
Project ID                       KGPE38569
Borrower                         Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
Principal Responsible Entities   Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection; Social Fund
c/o Ms. Tarzhekan Kalimbetova
Head, Social Security Department
SOSAC Coordinator
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik, 58, Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telephone:   (996 3312) 22-75-04
Fax: (996 3312) 62-16-45
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           June 24, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         October 1, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 10, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      After independence, the Kyrgyz Republic experienced severe economic and
social shocks, including a substantial and protracted contraction in GDP and
high inflation. In 1993, the Government initiated an aggressive trade and
price liberalization program, buttressed by structural reforms aimed at
enterprise and state farm privatization, demonopolization, improved financial
sector capacity, and other areas. Inflation was successfully reduced to
relatively manageable levels and economic growth was restored in 1996 and
1997.
2.      While overall progress in economic reform has been impressive, the impact
of the social and economic transition on the Kyrgyz population has been
profound.   The depth and incidence of poverty is of serious concern.    Over 50
percent of the population has income below the basic minimum consumer basket,
and some 16 percent live below the calculated subsistence minimum (food only).
Poverty is largely rural, and is most likely to affect families with children
and the disabled. Child malnutrition is on the rise as well, which is
related to both low consumption and the deteriorating quality of health care
services.
3.      The Kyrgyz Republic inherited a social insurance system that was not
affordable, equitable, or compatible with the transition to a market-oriented



economy. The classic Pay As You Go pension system is overly generous in
scope, with numerous early retirement privileges and benefits that are high in
relation to the average wage. The state pension system was recently
restructured under new legislation that gradually phases out the old earnings-
related pension and replaces it with a system of personal accounts that draws
on actual contributions on behalf of individuals (but under a Pay as You Go
approach). The system aims to improve the link between contributions to
benefits, while keeping pensioners out of poverty; however, there are still a
number of issues with system design need to be addressed to achieve these
objectives.
4.      The Social Fund was created in 1996. It includes four separate funds: the
Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, the Employment Fund and the Medical
Insurance Fund. The Pension Fund remains in a difficult financial position,
and the Government now faces the critical task of making the pension system
fiscally sustainable, while enhancing system transparency, equity, and
efficiency.   The Social Fund also needs to develop the capacity to manage and
administer pensions effectively and efficiently. For example, the accounting
system needs to be developed to provide for the full accountability and
transparency of the Fund, and coordination with the revenue collection efforts
of the Tax Inspectorate is weak.
The Country's Adjustment Program
5.      Since 1992, the World Bank, the IMF, the Asian Development Bank, the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and a number of other donors
have supported the Government in both the design and implementation of its
comprehensive reform program aimed at developing a market economy. Through
adjustment credits, the World Bank assisted the Government in reforms in the
areas of price liberalization, trade and exchange regimes, and liberalization.
The Government has established a track-record as a strong reformer and is
moving solidly to tackle the problems which remain on the road to sustainable
economic growth. Second generation reforms in critical areas such as the
restructuring of the budget and fiscal management are now being implemented,
and have been supported by the Bank through the Public Sector Management
Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC) and the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FINSAC).   The World Bank is currently assisting the Government to develop a
new national social policy and associated reform package to be supported
through the SOSAC.
The Proposed Credit
6.      Objectives. The objectives of the proposed SOSAC are to (i) establish a
fiscally sustainable pension scheme that will provide a stronger linkage
between contributions and benefits, while providing a minimum level of
guaranteed support to prevent poverty; (ii) improve the efficiency of active
labor market interventions under conditions of high unemployment; and (iii)
implement effective, well-targeted and fiscally sustainable programs to
alleviate poverty.
7.      Description.   With timed release of funds against targeted actions, the
proposed the SOSAC would assist the Government to establish a strengthened
pension scheme meeting the above objectives. Specific measures are under
discussion. The proposed SOSAC would include a transition to a Notional
- 2 -



Defined Contributions (NDC) system based on personal accounts for the state
pension tier, and a well-regulated voluntary private pension tier.     It would
increase the sustainability of the state pension system by reducing
expenditures through a variety of structural reforms, while improving revenue
collection. The SOSAC would also strengthen the accounting, audit and
financial management of the Social Fund as the foundation for other elements
of pension reform and develop the Government's policy analysis capacity in
this sector.
8.      In the area of employment, the SOSAC would reduce labor market rigidities
by supporting implementation of a new employment law. The law includes the
establishment of a tripartite mechanism for involving social partners in the
development of wage policy, occupational health and safety and other labor
market policies, and also redefines benefit eligibility criteria. The SOSAC
will also support the development of selection criteria and
monitoring/evaluation mechanisms for active labor market programs.     In the
area of social assistance, the SOSAC will assist the Government implement,
monitor, and evaluate the new social assistance law. The SOSAC would also
assist the Government to coordinate and rationalize all social assistance
benefits with the unified monthly benefit for low income families. Finally,
it would support the open dissemination of the new household survey, so that
public and private researchers can assess the mechanisms underlying changes in
living standards and present policy recommendations to enter the realm of
public debate.
9.      Financing.   The proposed Credit could range up to approximately US$35
million.
10.     Implementation.   The Borrower would be represented by the Ministry of
Finance, which will coordinate and monitor the implementation of the program
in consultation with the Social Fund and the MLSP. Working groups for
implementing SOSAC-related activities have been formed.     A Project
Implementation Unit has been established in the Ministry of Finance with a
Coordinator appointed to oversee implementation.
11.     Poverty Category. The Kyrgyz Government has put in place a new approach
to social assistance designed to target its scarce resources to the poor, and
the SOSAC will support the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of that
approach. In addition, SOSAC will work to coordinate other social benefits,
most importantly a proposed housing allowance, with the social assistance
benefit under one means testing mechanism to rationalize the assessment
mechanism (while making the system more client friendly). Supporting fiscal
sustainability of the pension system will help to ensure that pensioners
receive a benefit sufficient to keep them out of poverty, and help to prevent
future arrears in pension delivery.
12.     Environmental Aspects.   The proposed adjustment credit has been given a C
rating.
13.     Program Objective Categories.   Through its attention to the more
effective use of publicly financed pension, unemployment policy and social
assistance resources, the project would contribute to improved economic
management in the country as well as poverty reduction.
Contact Point:                   Philip Goldman, ECSHD
- 3 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.   (202) 473-3835
Fax No.:   (202) 522-3665
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 10, 1998.
- 4 -



