Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3145 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 10, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3145 KG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1998, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association. 
WHEREAS  (A)  the  Association  has  received  a letter dated October
  30, 1998,from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s social sector (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, and with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“Employment Fund” means the fund for employment programs, which is a 
constituent part of the Social Fund; 
(c)
“Law on State Benefits” means the Borrower’s law No. 15, of March 5, 
1998; 
(d)
“Pension Fund” means the fund for state pensions, which is a constituent 
part of the Social Fund; 
(e)
“Social Fund” means the Borrower’s fund for state social insurance and 
state pensions, established by Governmental Decree No. 535 of November 3, 1993, as 
modified by Governmental Decree No. 197 of April 15, 1998; 
(f)
“Som” means the currency of the Borrower; and 
(g)
“Unified Monthly Benefit” means the state benefit for low income families 
and citizens, as set forth in the Borrower’s Law on State Benefits. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to twenty six million, seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 13,350,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower 
is consistent with the Program as determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to 
the Association; (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
Page  4
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2009 and ending August 15, 
2033.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018 
shall be one and one fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the 
Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or 
more after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
Page  5
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
245156 NUR KH
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Page  6
By /s/ Jeenbaev Nyrbek Janybekovich 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
Page  7
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has revised its active labor market programs, as set forth in the 
Employment Fund budget for 1999, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and in 
such a way that: (i) all said programs found to be ineffective, on the basis of an 
impact assessment satisfactory to the Association, have not been included in the 
Employment Fund budget plan for 2000; and (ii) the appropriations for active labor 
market programs are not higher than 35% of all budgeted expenditures in the Employment 
Fund budget plan for 2000.
2.
The Borrower has completed the first phase of an assessment, satisfactory to the 
Association, of: (i) the adequacy of the new means testing formula, set forth in the 
Borrower’s Law on State Benefits, with respect to household income and consumption in 
urban and rural areas; and (ii) the effectiveness of the targeting mechanism under the 
Unified Monthly Benefit system, including the identification of alternative approaches 
and action plans for improving the effectiveness of said targeting mechanism.
3.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that: (i) the 
retirement age has been increased by at least four months by comparison with the 
corresponding level on January 1, 1998; and (ii) legal measures, satisfactory to the 
Association, continue to provide for the annual increase of the retirement age of at 
least four months, so that the retirement age increases by a total of three years.  
4.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that the 
expected non-mandatory budgetary transfers to the Pension Fund, for 1999, amount to 
less than Som 300 million. 
5.
The Borrower has taken satisfactory measures providing for changes to the 
pension formula agreed with the Association, including actuarially fair k coefficient 
for personal accounts, appropriate minimum pension, and appropriate crediting of 
payroll contribution for pensions to personal accounts.
6.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association: (i) a satisfactory assessment  of 
disability certification procedures; and (ii) a satisfactory action plan for the 
improvement of said procedures.
7.
The Borrower’s Government has submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament a draft 
law, satisfactory to the Association, providing for: (i) an appropriate mechanism for 
pension indexation; (ii) the reduction of non-contributory earning periods for 
pensions and early retirement privileges; and (iii) the principle that any remaining 
privileges be financed under the Borrower’s budget.
8.
The Borrower has: (i) provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that the 
Pension Fund and the Employment Fund have completed the preparation of the documents 
for a tender regarding the implementation of a program aimed at assisting said Funds 
in their transition from their current accounting practices to international 
Page  8
accounting standards; and (ii) submitted to the Association a satisfactory audit, 
prepared by an auditor acceptable to the Association, of the accounts of the Pension 
Fund and the Employment Fund for 1998. 
9.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a satisfactory assessment of the 
fiscal and social impact of pension policy options, on the basis of a pension policy 
model satisfactory to the Association, including the option of a gradual transition to 
partial funding of the pension system through mandatory private accounts for system 
contributors.
