Page  1
May 26, 1999
H.E. Marat Sultanov
Minister of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Re:
Swiss Grant Agreement for Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Grant Number TF021297
Your Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the 
Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Switzerland, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred fifty 
thousand Swiss Francs (CHF 250,000) (the Grant) to the Kyrgyz Republic (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nancy J. Cooke 
Acting Country Director
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and 
  Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Marat Sultanov
Date:  July 2, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to support the Recipient’s development agenda in 
strengthening public finance, reforming pension systems, deepening and diversifying 
sources of growth, particularly in the rural areas, and reducing poverty. 
1.2
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
provision of technical assistance to improve the efficiency of social protection 
systems, through institutional development activities aimed at strengthening the 
agencies charged with benefit administration.
2.
Implementation Generally
Page  2
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) from 
time to time exchange views with the Association’s representatives on the progress and 
results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
Association to visit the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association 
shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of 
the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the 
results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient, in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for 
the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of Expenditures
Item
    Allocated (in Swiss Francs)
to be Financed
Consultants' services
250,000
100%
TOTAL
250,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied 
by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development or for services supplied from such territories; (iv) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the 
Association’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after 
December 31, 2000 or such later date as the Association shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is 
received by the Association within four months after the Closing Date, after which 
time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such 
amount in the form specified by the Association. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) 
signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as 
he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request. Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient 
in form and substance to satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to 
withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities. The Association shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant. The Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
Page  3
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right 
of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of 
the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time 
after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have 
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the 
Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Association, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A:  General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions.
Part B:  Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
Page  4
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
