Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15870
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2734-UNI)
June 28, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =         Naira (N)
US$1.00       =         1.00 (appraisal)
US$1.00       =         4.0 (1987)
US$1.00       =         4.5 (1988)
US$ 1.00      =         7.4 (1989)
USS.00       =         8.0 (1990)
US$1.00                 9.9 (1991)
US$1.00       =         17.3 (1992)
US$1.00       =         21.8 (1993)
USS1.00       =         21.99 (1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 kilometer (kim)     0.6 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)   =   0.39 square mile (mi2)
1 m3 = 1,000 liters (1)   =   6.37 barrels = 247.54 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CWTC -         Central Water Transportation Company
FGN   -        Federal Goverrnment of Nigeria
FMTA  -        Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation (from early, 1988)
(previously Federal Ministry of Transport)
FMWH -         Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
ICB    -       International Competitive Bidding
LASG  -        Lagos State Government
LIB    -       Limited International Bidding
MIS   -        Management Information System
NAA   -        Nigerian Airports Authority
NAL   -        Nigeria Airways Limited
NCHC -         National Cargo Handling Company
NFC   -        National Freight Corporation
NITT  -        National Institute of Transport Technology
NNSL  -        Nigerian National Shipping Line
NPA   -        Nigerian Ports Authority
NRC   -        Nigerian Railway Corporation
NTCD  -        National Transport Coordinating Department
(later TCID)
PCU    -       Project Coordinating Unit
PMU   -        Project Management Unit
TA     -       Technical Assistance
TCID   -       Transportation Coordination and Inspectorate
Department (earlier NTCD)
TCPC  -        Technical Committee for Privatization and
Commercialization
TPP   -        Transport Parastatal Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OMce of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June28, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Transport Parastatals Project (Loan 2734-UNI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Nigeria Transport Parastatals
project (Loan 2734-UNI, approved in FY86), prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The loan for
US$20.9 million was approved on June 26, 1986, and closed on June 30, 1994, two years behind
schedule. US$2.76 million was canceled. The Borrower did not contribute Part II of the report.
The project objectives were: (a) to lay the foundations for the reform of transport
parastatals by improving accountability, specifying financial and operational objectives, improving
staffing plans and examining future roles of several enterprises; and (b) to improve the efficiency
with which the two largest parastatals-the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Nigerian
Railway Corporation (NRC}-utilize their facilities. The project consisted primarily of technical
assistance (one third of total costs) and procurement of spare parts and equipment (two thirds).
Specific components were: (a) technical assistance and training for NPA and NRC in several areas:
financial controls, accounting and information systems, setting of financial targets, revenue/cost
studies, marketing and tariff setting, manpower planning, workshop operations, and effective use of
computers; (b) provision of computers, workshop equipment and spare parts to support technical
assistance and training to NPA and NRC; (c) technical assistance to the Federal Ministry of
Transport and Aviation (FMTA) to carry out policy studies; and (d) management training for senior
officials of FMTA, NRC, and NPA.
The project's most important objectives were not achieved. Some studies (e.g., National
Transport Policy, Railroad Revitalization) provided useful background information and immediate
action plans for the reform; however, they had little effect on the parastatals' management or
FMTA policy because their recommendations were not implemented. Other important studies
(e.g., Valuation of NRC's Assets, Transport Policy) were never completed. Equipment and spare
parts were procured, especially for NRC, and helped slow down the deterioration in service.
However, because of delays and the lack of counterpart funds, the rehabilitated equipment failed to
support sustained improvements in efficiency of NRC's and NPA's services. During
implementation, several new studies on Maritime Development, Vehicle Administration and Lagos
Mass Transit were added with the Bank's agreement; but these also failed to be completed or
followed up. No economic rate of return was estimated at appraisal for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The project's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, sustainability as unlikely, and
institutional development as negligible. The Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory as
supervision effectiveness was hampered by high staff turnover and a lack of specialized skills
(e. g., for aviation and trucking). These ratings are in line with the substance of the PCR.
The project may be audited together with other Nigeria transport projects.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Pae N2.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..........................................1
A.  Project Identity    ...................................................                                                            1
B. Background ...................................................1
C. Project Objectives and Description ...................................................4
D.  Project Design and Organization ...................................................5
E. Project Implementation ...................................................6
F. Project Results ...................................................7
G. Project Sustainability ..................................................                                                         10
H. Bank Performance ...................................................11
I. Borrower Performance ...................................................11
J. Project Relationship ..................................................                                                           12
K. Consulting Services ..................................................                                                            13
L.  Project Documentation  and Data ..................................................                                              13
PART II: BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT .................................................                                                                      14
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................................                                                                   15
Table 1: Related Bank Loans .........................................                                                                16
Table 2: Project Timetable .........................................                                                                 16
Table 3: Studies ..........................................                                                                          17
Table 4: Procurement of Spare Parts ..........................................                                                      22
Table 5: Project Costs ..........................................                                                                    27
Table 6: Project Financing .......................................... 28
Table 7: Cumulative Loan Disbursements ..........................................                                                    29
Table 8: Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..........................................                                                      30
Table 9: Use of Bank Resources ..........................................                                                            31
Table 10: Status of Covenants ......................................... 32
Annex A: NRC Working Ratios ..................................................                                                                        35
|This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.                                          l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2734-UNI)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) describes and evaluates the identification,
preparation, appraisal and implementation of the Transport Parastatals Project in Nigeria, for which
Loan 2734-UNI in the amount of US$20.9 million was signed on October 31, 1986. The loan
became effective on April 23, 1987. It was originally scheduled to be closed on June 30, 1992, but
was extended four times to allow more time for completion of project-financed components. The
loan was closed on June 30, 1994. The last disbursement under the loan was on November 30,
1994; only 87 percent of the loan was disbursed, with a balance of US$2,758,796, which was
canceled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Infrastructure Division of the West Central Africa Department (AF4IN). The Bank's contribution to
the report was prepared on the basis of, inter alia, the President's Report, Loan Agreement,
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, Project Agreements, supervision reports, quarterly progress reports,
correspondence between the Bank and Nigerian authorities, internal Bank memoranda and
consultations with Bank staff who served as project officers on the project.
Parts I and III of the PCR were sent to the Borrower for comment. The Borrower was then
requested to prepare Part II and to return it to the Bank within three months. However, the
Borrowers' Part II has not yet been received.
The Task Manager for this PCR is Mr. Elie Saleeby. Messrs. James Wright and Olivier
Lafourcade are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the
operation.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2734-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.    In the early 1980s, the Nigeria transportation system was characterized by
numerous transport parastatals, the largest of which were the Nigeria Railway Corporation
(NRC) and the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA). About 1982, railway and port traffic
turned sharply downward after an extended period of general prosperity and rapid traffic
growth. Financial results of both NRC and NPA deteriorated alarmingly after 1982. The
Transport Parastatals Project was identified in November 1982 and the project was under
preparation for about two and a half years.
2.    A 1984 Bank review indicated that the Nigerian parastatal transport companies
were experiencing a number of basic problems. Particular attention focused on
institutional weakness and operating inefficiencies. Serious questions were raised also
about the economic role of some of these parastatals and the possibilities for privatization
of some of them. Several financial problems suggested a need for major efforts to increase
cost recovery from users of transport services. Consideration of these problems and needs
by the Ministry of Transport and Aviation, NRC and NPA resulted in preparation of terms
of reference for studies that should be undertaken and a review of needs for locomotive
spare parts and cargo handling spare parts. The Bank assisted in this preparation activity.
The project was appraised in May 1985 and was approved by the Bank's Board in June
1986. The loan became effective in January 1987.
3.    The major objectives of the project were to: (i) lay the foundation for reform of
transport parastatals by improving accountability, specifying financial and operational
objectives, preparing staff rationalization plans and examining the future roles of several
enterprises, and (ii) improve the efficiency with which the two largest parastatals, NPA
and NRC, utilize their facilities.
Implementation Experience
4.    An important part of the NRC component of the project was the procurement of
spare parts for locomotive repairs. While implementation of spare parts procurement
began well, it was soon delayed as a result of difficulties in obtaining NRC and Federal
Ministry of Transport and Aviation (FMTA) approval of tender evaluations. The
principal studies undertaken were the railway revitalization study and the valuation of
assets study; the scheduled Management Information System (MIS) and traffic costing



ii
completed. Factors accounting for implementation shortcomings were: (i) delayed
approval of tender evaluations; (ii) delayed issuance of letters of credit; (iii) insufficient
counterpart funds; (iv) long delivery times by some suppliers; (v) production stoppages in
NRC due to poor financial state of the corporation; (vi) extremely poor condition of many
locomotives; and (vii) bureaucratic delays.
5.    Implementation of the NPA component had a reasonably good start, particularly
the accounting and manpower studies. The MIS study, however, was not implemented.
While the first phase of the equipment rehabilitation program was carried out on time,
subsequent activities became stalled because of failure of consultants to provide adequate
tender evaluations. High turnover in the NPA project managers was an adverse factor for
effective implementation.
6.    The FMTA component was lagging in mid- 1987 at which time the ministry had
accomplished little more than establishing a training program abroad. Several studies
were initiated concerning future roles of transport parastatals, multimodal operations,
domestic aviation policy and other subjects. Three of the studies were not completed.
The initial project coordinator for the entire project performed satisfactorily but his
successor did not function very effectively. The project coordinator and three project
managers were seriously handicapped by insufficient support services. Eventually, the
failure of NPA, NRC and the FMTA to provide adequate project support indicated a lack
of Borrower's commitment to this project.
Results
7.    The objectives of the project were only partly achieved. Studies laid some of the
foundation for the reform of transport parastatals. Little was accomplished toward
improving the efficiency of the NRC and NPA.
8.    Spare parts for locomotives were procured to facilitate the repair of selected
locomotives. Of the 75 units planned for repair, only 37 were actually repaired. Even this
limited number of locomotives did not perform satisfactorily after their repair.
9.    The mechanical workshop in Apapa Port was renovated and re-equipped.
Rehabilitation of cargo handling equipment was about 50 percent completed in mid-1994.
10.   The NRC actuarial and asset valuation studies were completed satisfactorily and
provided useful recommendations for NRC. The revitalization study provided a basis for
basic policy and institutional reforms.
11.   For NPA, the MIS study was the most useful study output. A manpower study
helped rationalize the authority's manpower.



iii
12.   The various FMTA studies, particularly the study of future roles and policy
options for transport parastatals, improved the information base for planning, policy
formulation and decision making.
Project Sustainability
13.   Locomotive spare parts financed under the project were intended to improve
equipment repairs and increase availability of locomotives; however, availability of such
units declined. Thus, no continuing benefits of this component are foreseen. Although
project-financed spare parts for NPA equipment were expected to have beneficial effects
on the availability of cargo handling equipment, such benefits were in fact minimal and,
therefore, little positive results are to be sustained. Various studies provided considerable
useful information and some of the recommendations; to the extent they are implemented,
will probably have long-term favorable impacts on the transport sector. However, all in
all, project sustainability has not been met.
Lessons Learned
14.   Three lessons are suggested by the experience with this project: First, a broad
scope project, such as the Transport Parastatals Project, requires supervision missions
carefully balanced between persons with specialized skills and persons of broad
experience. Ideally, most of the supervision missions for such a project would be staffed
by a number of specialists to deal with diverse technical matters but this means the
,nissions would be costly and would impose a heavy drain on the Bank's scarce technical
specialists. A compromise is to staff a number of these missions with persons of broad
experience, supplemented at times by consultants specialists.
15.   The second lesson is that Project Coordinating Units (PCUs) are not suited to
ensure internalization and follow-up of complex reorganization studies, particularly in
parastatals.
16.   The third lesson is that adequate management tools and organizational changes
should be established ahead of project effectiveness to generate measurable improvements
of operating performance.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2734-UNI)
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:            Transport Parastatals Project
Loan Number:             2734-UNI
Loan Amount:             US$20.9 million
RVP Unit:                Africa Region
Country:                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Sector:                  Transport
Subsector:               All
B. BACKGROUND
1.    Nigeria, the largest country in Africa, had a population in 1993 of about 89 million, and
the population was increasing at a high rate of 2.9 percent annually. The country has an extensive
transportation system including a large road network, a railway system, pipelines, ocean and river
ports, airports, ocean shipping lines, river transport companies, trucking companies and bus
operations. Transport parastatals play important roles in this system.
2.    During the seventies, the Nigerian oil industry experienced a sharp increase in both
demand for its oil and the prices of oil products. The boom conditions led to a strong growth in
overall transport demand. Road, port and air traffic increased during this period 15 to 20 percent
annually. Rail traffic, however, declined in this period, except in the years 1979-1982, when the
Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) was under expatriate management and enjoyed considerable
financial and policy support from the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN). As a result of the
favorable circumstances in these few exceptional years, railway traffic doubled, suggesting that
there was a significant latent demand for railway services.
3.    The strong overall traffic demand in the seventies and early eighties led the Federal
Government of Nigeria to invest substantial funds in transport facilities during the period. About
naira 7 billion (US$9 billion) was expended on roads, largely federally owned roads; some 10,000
km of these roads were constructed and 3,000 km rehabilitated. Port capacity was more than
doubled in these years and 14 major airports were constructed or improved. The major rail
infrastructure project was the transformation of the existing single line narrow gauge network into
a dual standard gauge network.



-2-
4.    A Transport Sector Strategy Paper, prepared by the Bank in 1984, reviewed this program
of physical expansion and improvement and concluded that, while much of the program had been
favorable, the downturn in the economy in the mid-eighties reduced the need for further facility
expansion. The paper also noted that the expansion did not have a concurrent program of
enhancing the financial and institutional capacity of the responsible organizations. Accordingly,
the Bank recommended that attention be concentrated on improving maintenance and
rehabilitation of the existing transport infrastructure, increasing the efficiency of the transport
systems and augmenting cost recovery from transport users. The need for increased cost
recovery was emphasized, given the high level of subsidies identified in the sector. The Bank
report also noted an urgent requirement for improved transport sector planning, with particular
attention to the need for a road inventory and reconsideration of the roles of both NRC and
Nigerian Airways. Additional policy issues included: (i) the appropriate balance of road
expenditures between levels of government; (ii) the optimum means of meeting future port
requirements in the Lagos area; (iii) the future roles of major ports; (iv) the future needs for new
airports, and (v) the economic role of river transport.
5.    The Federal Government owned parastatals in all transport modes and all of them
operated at a loss. The two largest transport parastatals were the Nigerian Railway Corporation
(NRC) and the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA). Other important parastatals were in the road
transport and sea transport subsectors (National Cargo Handling Company), aviation (Nigerian
Airport Authority and Nigeria Airways Limited), and inland waterways (Central Water
Transportation Company). The Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation (FMTA) was
responsible for sector policy coordination and overview of all transport modes except roads which
were the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH). Most of the
parastatal organizations reflected poor financial results, excessive staffing, institutional weakness
and operating inefficiencies.
6.    At the time of appraisal, the NRC was in serious financial difficulty. Despite the
substantial growth of the Nigerian economy over the 20-year period 1965-1985, the operating
and financial performance of NRC had declined consistently, except for a brief period between
1979 and 1981, when NRC was managed by RITES of India under a management contract.
While road traffic had increased approximately five-fold after the mid-sixties, rail traffic had
declined by almost one-third. This poor traffic performance was reflected in NRC's declining
financial results; the working ratio (working expenses divided by revenues) had deteriorated from
around 90 percent in the mid-sixties to 230 percent in 1983 and 240 percent in 1984.
7.    Several factors had contributed to NRC's poor performance. Commodity exports, which
accounted for almost 40 percent of rail traffic in the sixties, virtually ceased during the seventies.
In addition, the competitive position of road transport had been greatly strengthened by
substantial investment in roads and vehicles. The principal explanation for rail's loss of traffic was
its poor operating performance which was primarily attributable to poor management, inadequate
foreign exchange for spare parts, a shortage of qualified technical staff, and a surplus of unskilled
labor. The number of mainline locomotives available for service declined from 170 in late 1981 to



-3-
only 85 in mid-1985 due to inadequate running maintenance and failure to carry out periodic
overhauls.
8.    In addition to reducing its labor force, NRC needed to focus its resources on the markets
where it had comparative advantage over road transport. NRC also needed to improve its
revenue collecting system and cost controls. However, its ability to do this in 1985 was seriously
hampered by lack of financial information; annual accounts were two years behind and basic
accounting records were incomplete. There was an economic role for the NRC, and it could
become economically and financially viable through a combination of increased traffic, higher
tariffs, and considerable rationalization of the cost structure. The project was intended to
promote these changes.
9.    NPA was also experiencing many problems. Its financial condition had seriously
deteriorated after 1978. Annual and monthly accounts were not current, although NPA had made
progress over the preceding 12 months in redressing the backlog. The Port Authority suffered
many of the same institutional problems facing the NRC, although to a lesser degree.
10.   As a result of NPA's construction program between 1975 and 1980, port capacity had
more than doubled and was adequate in 1985, especially with the downturn in traffic following
1982. While the fall in port traffic in 1983 and 1984 aggravated financial problems, NPA's results
were deteriorating before that time, due primarily to the fact that three new ports were brought
into service and the vastly increased costs of dredging, workshops, personnel, administration and
supervision. About a year before appraisal, NPA took action to improve the situation by reducing
its staff by 6,000 or 20 percent; despite this step, the staffing level remained excessive. Two other
actions were taken by NPA about this time: it closed Sapele Port to commercial operations and
obtained government approval of a 15 percent tariff increase.
11.   NPA requested assistance through the project to: (i) improve its workshop and stores
operation; (ii) assess manpower and training requirements; and (iii) introduce a new management
information system. These measures, together with actions already taken, were expected to
enable NPA to attain, within 3 years, an operating ratio similar to those achieved in 1980 and
1981, targets considered reasonable for the medium term.
12.   There were uncertainties as to the appropriate roles of both the railway and the parastatal
involved in inland waterways transport. In 1986, the government indicated to the Bank its
intention to undertake policy reforms concerning these parastatals. Substantial reductions were to
be made in budgetary transfers to them, parastatals would be required to generate more internal
revenue and some organizations would be privatized or liquidated. The specific steps necessary
to achieve these aims and a timetable for their implementation were to be worked out through the
proposed Transport Parastatals Project.
13.   The discussions with various transport related organizations included, inter alia, specific
consideration of (i) urgently required spare parts; (ii) need for improved management information
systems; (iii) need for management training; (iv) potential for improvement in workshop and cargo
operations at NPA; and (v) possible transport policy studies. A formal request for the Transport



4-
Paastatals Project was submnitted by FGN to the Bank in early 1985. The project was appraised
by Bank staff in May 1985 (for a list of previous Bank financed projects in the sector see Table 1).
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
14.   The major objectives of the projects were to:
(a)  lay the foundations for reform of transport parastatals by improving accountability,
specifying financial and operational objectives, preparing staff rationalization plans
and examining the future roles of several enterprises; and
(b)  improve the efficiency with which the two largest parastatals, NPA and NRC, utilize
their facilities.
Project Description
15.   The project comprised three main undertakings as follows:
(a) Technical assistance and training for NPA and NRC. This activity was to be carried
out in several specific subject areas, namely, to: (i) improve internal financial controls,
accounting and management information systems; (ii) define financial targets including
a basis for compensation for any non-commercial obligations; (iii) carry out
revenue/cost studies to identify cost-cutting, marketing and tariff setting strategies;
(iv) assist in manpower planning and development, including the preparation of staff
rationalization and training programs; (v) assist in improving workshops and
operations; and (vi) promote more effective use of computer facilities.
(b)  provision of computers, workshop equipment and training equipment as well as spare
parts, in support of the above-mentioned technical assistance   and training.
(c) Technical assistance and consulting services to FMTA to carry out policy studies on
subjects including the following: (i) the future options for other transport parastatals,
including possible restructuring, privatization or liquidation; (ii) the respective roles of
Nigerian Airways and private operators in domestic aviation; (iii) the feasibility of
intermodal transport, including management training for senior officials of FMTA and
its parastatals, especially NRC and NPA.



-5-
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
16.   The project design emphasized assistance to the NRC and NPA but with some attention to
the needs of FMTA. A particularly large share of the funding (40 percent of the allocated amount
of the loan) was directed to the procurement of spare parts for NRC's locomotives to increase
locomotive availability critical to operating efficiency. Likewise, spare parts for NPA's cargo
handling equipment were a significant project element and also were intended to enhance the
efficiency of port operations.
17.  In addition to spare parts for NRC and NPA, provision was made in the project for
procurement for both organizations of computers and training equipment, workshop equipment
and tools. Also, the project included management training in NRC, NPA and FMTA.
18.   Studies for NRC under the project included: (i) improvement of locomotive workshops
and stores management; (ii) design and implementation of new internal control, accounting and
management information systems; (iii) revenue/cost studies; (iv) manpower studies; and (v)
project planning and programming. Additional technical assistance was provided to train trainers
to implement recommendations from NRC manpower studies.
19.   Studies for NPA included the following: (i) improvement of the Lagos workshop including
the identification of needs for spare parts; (ii) manpower planning and development; (iii) MIS for
financial and operational purposes; and (iv) rationalization of data processing activities, etc.
including implementation.
20.   The project was designed to improve the operating efficiency and financial results of the
NRC and NPA in both the short and long term. In order to monitor the performance of these
organizations, the project included specific output targets for both NRC and NPA. Among these,
those set for locomotive performance were considered particularly important.
21.   The project included a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to have overall responsibility for
the management of the project. The PCU was based in the FMTA and was to report directly to
the Chief Executive of FMTA. The day-to-day management of the project was the responsibility
of Project Management Units (PMUs) in each of the major organizations (FMTAS, NRC and
NPA). Each PMU was headed by a Project Coordinator who coordinated project components
within his organization.
22.   A number of conditions of loan signing and effectiveness were established by the Bank.
One of these was government approval of tariff increases for NRC and NPA, which was
accomplished. Another was that locomotives for rehabilitation were to be selected, spare parts
needs identified and specifications for bidding prepared. This was not achieved, as a spare parts
list was not ready until May 1987 and bid documents were prepared later. Some other conditions
were met prior to effectiveness and some were not. Negotiations were completed in December



-6-
1985; the loan was approved on June 26, 1986, signed October 31, 1986 and became effective
January 23, 1987 (see Table 2).
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
23.   Nigerian Railway Corporation. By mid-1987, implementation of this component was
progressing well but it was still at an early stage. As work proceeded, it became clear that NRC's
equipment was in a state of dilapidation and, as a result, the railway's capacity was severely
crippled. In November, the Bank sent a high level mission to Nigeria and it agreed with NRC and
FMTA that an Emergency Rescue Plan was urgently required for NRC. Terms of reference were
prepared by February 1988 for a Revitalization Study to include a diagnosis with an immediate
action plan, manpower plan, investment plan, corporate and business plan, and a perfornance
agreement. Consultants were selected for the study which was completed in mid-1989. A
subsequent project was to implement its recommendations. A costing study was initiated but was
not completed.
24.   The locomotive rehabilitation component of the project had a smooth start but soon lost
ground due to delays in approval of tender evaluations by NRC and FMTA. Delays also arose in
the issuance of letters of credit by NRC's bankers. Locomotive rehabilitation in particular was
proceeding slowly because of procurement delays and the use of improper procedures.
Counterpart funds were inadequate for vitally needed supplies and, as a consequence, some new
locomotives were purchased at high prices. By mid-1990, progress on the NRC component was
rated unsatisfactory.
25.   NRC apparently underestimated the magnitude of the technical and managerial tasks
involved in locomotive rehabilitation. Several factors accounted for the shortcomings in
implementation. These included: (i) limitations in available counterpart funds; (ii) long delivery
times required by some suppliers; (iii) production stoppages in NRC due to poor financial state of
the Corporation; (iv) extremely poor condition of many of the locomotives; (v) insufficient shop
space, and (v) bureaucratic delays.
26.   The performance of the PMU in NRC was not satisfactory, partly because of the
manager's limited experience. Also, he was handicapped by insufficient support services. There
was, however, reasonable continuity in the staffing of the position.
27.   Nigerian Port Authority. Implementation had a reasonably good start and, by mid-1989,
progress was fair on the accounting system and manpower studies. While Phase I of the
equipment rehabilitation program was carried out on time, Phase II, comprising tender and bid
evaluation, became stalled because of unsatisfactory performance of consultants and shortcomings
of the PMU. As of mid-1990, project implementation was rated unsatisfactory, the principal
problem being an inadequate tender evaluation prepared by consultants.



-7-
28.   The performance of the PMU in NPA was also unsatisfactory. One of the main problems
was the frequent change in the Project Manager, causing delays in decision-making. Also, there
was a lack of understanding on the part of the PMU concerning the objectives of the project.
29.   There were a number of causes of delays in the implementation of the NPA component.
In addition to the lack of understanding of the objectives of the project and the high turnover of
project managers, few staff seemed to have an adequate knowledge of Bank procedures and
requirements. External factors included bureaucratic interference from high level officials in the
Ministry, uncertainty concerning reorganization of NPA and the failure of some consultants to
perform satisfactorily.
30.   Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation. By mid-1987 only a program for training
abroad had been established. Several studies were launched in early 1989: (i) future roles and
policy options for transport parastatals; (ii) freight and multimodal operations; (iii) a national
transport survey; and (iv) domestic aviation policy. Progress on these studies was being made in
mid-1989. Early in 1990, FMTA authorized a new study to develop a strategy and plan for the
Nigeria Institute of Transport Technology. Studies were also authorized for the Maritime
Academy, the National Motor Vehicle Administration, Lagos Mass Transit and a transport
systems management study. In 1993, a study was authorized for the inland waterway subsector,
but it began too late to be completed within the project period. Three studies planned earlier
were not undertaken; these were the national transport survey and projections; development and
policy analysis; and management information system studies, which could not be started before
closing of the loan.
31.   In response to a request from FMTA, the Bank agreed to the use of project funds for a
short-term consultant to assist FMTA in producing a draft national transport policy. The
consultant produced, on schedule, a draft which was adopted by Government in 1993.
32.   Among the problems that impacted the project negatively were frequent changes in
executives of the Ministry. Also, the depressed state of the economy adversely affected the
execution of the project. Finally, the high level of inflation led to considerable agitation for wage
and salary increases which caused disruption in project implementation.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Objectives
33.   Little was accomplished toward improving the efficiency of the two largest parastatals, the
NRC and NPA. The project objectives were only partly achieved. On the other hand, the studies
laid some of the foundation for the reform of transport parastatals. Useful studies dealt with the
roles of certain parastatals and various policy issues.



-8-
Equipment Rehabilitation
34.   The locomotive rehabilitation program of NRC was directed at rehabilitating 75
locomotives in the fleet, 30 in the first tranche and 45 in the second. Under the project, only 32
were rehabilitated in the first tranche and 5 in the second tranche, a total of 37. In May 1994,
only 16 of the 37 rehabilitated locomotives were running. Four of the 37 were out of service
because of accidents, while 3 were in need of compressor/exhauster repairs, and 9 were held in
running sheds for repairs. Eight of the original 75 locomotives targeted for rehabilitation could
not be rehabilitated. The average number of available locomotives steadily declined from 66 in
1987 to 25 in 1992.
35.   The NPA equipment repair program was divided into phases: (i) repair; (ii) rehabilitation
of mechanical workshop at Apapa port; and (iii) rehabilitation of cargo handling equipment.
Phase I was completed on schedule in August 1987 but the other phases were seriously delayed.
The mechanical workshop of Apapa port was renovated and re-equipped as planned.
Rehabilitation of cargo handling equipment was about 50 percent completed. (The remainder was
scheduled for completion by the end of October 1994.) A small amount of computer and training
equipment was procured for both NPA and NRC.
Results of Studies
36.   Table 3 presents the objectives, main outputs and impact of the studies undertaken for
NRC. The studies were mainly designed to review railway operations and management as a basis
for defining the railway's future role and investment needs. The actuarial study and the valuation
of assets provided useful results; they served to highlight problem assets. The revitalization and
costing studies (the latter only partially completed) provided the basis for basic policy and
institutional reforms and a proper costing of NRC's services. Implementation of
recommendations in the studies was weak because of management inadequacies and a tendency to
rely too heavily on the Technical Committee for Privatization and Commercialization (TCPC)
which was responsible for the restructuring framework.
37.   Only three studies were carried out under the NPA component of the project. Their
objectives, output and impact are also presented in Table 3. The MIS study was the main
accomplishment. As a result of the study, NPA was provided with a commercially-oriented
accounting system and a computerized payroll system; the final phase of the study, creation of an
authority-wide MIS, was not completed. A manpower planning and development study helped
rationalize the authority's manpower.
38.   The major objectives, outputs and impacts under the FMTA component are summarized in
Table 3. While the quality of these studies varied, they improved the information base for
planning, policy formulation and decision-making. The study of future roles and policy options
for transport parastatals was particularly useful in preparing a National Transport Policy produced
in early 1990. Delays in executing three of the studies, however, prevented their having a major
influence on the reform activities of the TCPC. The Lagos Mass Transit study provided a clear
framework for manpower training and development needs for Nigeria's transport sector. While



-9-
the results of some studies were positive, FMTA did not implement many recommendations and
thus missed opportunities to strengthen its institutional capacity.
39.   Conspicuous failures in the FMTA study program were the exercises designed to: (i)
improve policy analysis capabilities of the ministry; (ii) provide the ministry with an information
system for monitoring the sector; and (iii) create a transport data bank. The first two studies were
not executed and the latter was terminated early. The FMTA training program was fully
implemented but it was a qualified success because of a failure to monitor the subsequent
performance of trainees and the alleged award of training assignments based on favoritism.
Performance Targets and Achievements
40.   Performance targets were established at the outset of the project. None of these targets
were achieved during the project period, except locomotive kilometers per day. Locomotive
availability, a particularly important factor, declined from 54 percent in 1986 to 19 percent in
1993. The railway's working ratio target was 180, but the actual ratio increased from 212 in
1986 to 238 in 1993.
41.   Targets for NPA equipment availability were established, but it was not possible to assess
the actual performance in this regard.
Project Costs
42.   The total project cost, as indicated in Table 5, was approximately US$24.10 million as
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$30.26 million. NRC expended naira 18,004,180 in
counterpart funds, or 58 percent of its commitment of naira 30,946,574. Since the NRC
commitment was equivalent to US$5.8 million, the NRC counterpart funding was about US$3.36
million. NPA met its commitment of US$2.70 million. FMTA counterpart funding covered only
the costs of the PCU and its PMU, somewhat less than the US$0.9 million commitment. The
total counterpart funding was US$6.76 million. Adding this counterpart funding to the Bank's
loan disbursement of US$18.14 million brings the total project cost to US$24- 10 million.
43.   The actual cost of the NRC component of US$16.13 million was 10 percent lower than
the appraisal estimate, while the cost of the NPA component was 44 percent less than the
appraisal estimate. In the case of the FMTA component, however, the actual cost exceeded the
appraisal estimate by 24 percent. Overall, the total project cost was 18 percent below the
appraisal estimate and this is explained largely by the shortfall in NRC's contribution of
counterpart funds.
Project Financing
44.   The original plan for project financing along with the actual project financing are
presented in Table 6. As indicated in that table, the Bank's US$18.1 million contribution to the
project financing was 75 percent of the actual project cost while in the appraisal estimate the



-10-
Bank's participation was planned as 69 percent. NRC failed to contribute its planned share of the
financing but the NPA and FMTA more or less met their financial commitments to the project.
Disbursements
45.   Loan disbursements, as indicated in Table 7, began in FY 1988. Although the loan was to
be fully disbursed by June 30, 1992, according to the appraisal plan, actual disbursements on that
date were only 48 percent of the US$20.9 million Bank loan. A year later, 73 percent of the loan
had been disbursed. After all loan disbursements were completed, the cumulative amount was
US$18.1 million or about 87 percent of the loan amount. Special accounts were established to
facilitate disbursements from the loan. The main reason for delays in disbursements was that
substantial delays occurred in carrying out various elements of the project as detailed above in the
discussion on project implementation.
Allocation of Proceeds
46.   Proceeds of the Bank loan, as originally planned and as finally allocated are shown in
Table 8. In the Loan Agreement, US$12.14 million was the specified allocation for NRC;
actually, a slightly larger amount of US$12.77 million was allocated to NRC. Originally, NPA
was allocated US$6.89 million but in the end only US$2.59 million was actually allocated to the
authority. In the case of FMTA, the original US$1.87 million changed to an actual US$2.78
million. Thus, only NPA suffered a sizable shortfall in the allocation of funds. Eventually, the
provision of spare parts consumed more than 72 percent of the Bank disbursements, a much
higher percentage than the 55 percent originally expected.
Environmental Impact
47.   The nature of the project was such that its impact on the environment was minimal.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
48.   Locomotive spare parts financed under the project were intended to improve equipment
repairs and increase the availability of locomotives; measures of availability, however, actually
declined, as indicated above. Thus, no continuing benefits of this component are foreseen.
Although project-financed spare parts for NPA equipment were expected to have beneficial
effects on the availability of cargo handling equipment, these benefits likewise probably were not
realized and therefore little positive results are likely to be sustained. The studies financed under
the project provided useful information to policy makers and planers; some of the study
recommendations, to the extent implemented, will probably have long-term favorable impacts on
the transport sector. However, overall, the project results have to be considered unsustainable.



-1 1-
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
49.   Bank missions for both preparation and supervision of the project are shown in Table 10.
Following project identification in November 1982, the Bank sent four preparation missions to
Nigeria during the period 1982 through 1984. A preappraisal mission visited Nigeria early in
1985, followed by the appraisal mission later that year. In addition, post-appraisal and post-
negotiation missions were sent to the country. It therefore appears that an unusual amount of
effort was put forth by the Bank to prepare and appraise the project.
50.   The first supervision mission arrived in Nigeria in November 1986 and the final one in
February 1993. During the intervening period of just over 6 years, a total of 19 supervision
missions reviewed implementation. Thus, the Bank sent about 3 such missions a year which is
somewhat above the average for Bank projects.
51.   Over two-thirds of the 19 missions comprised only one staff member and a third of them
included two or three staff. Since the project involved several modes of transport and the Bank
could not often send specialists for all modes, the project was difficult to supervise adequately.
Railway engineers participated in only six missions and port engineers were involved in only five
missions. Some of the studies involved aviation and trucking subsectors and none of the
supervision missions involved specialists in these fields.
52.   Another problem was that there was a high turnover of Bank staff assigned to the project.
No Bank staff member remained with the project throughout its life, and staff changes were
frequent. At least four Division Chiefs were responsible for the project at different times over the
project period. The lack of continuity in staff made it difficult to supervise this rather complex
multimodal project.
53.   Two lessons are suggested by this experience. First, a broad scoped project, such as the
Transport Parastatal Project, requires supervision missions carefully balanced between persons
with specialized skills and persons of broad experience. Ideally, most of the supervision missions
for such a project would be staffed by a number of specialists to deal with diverse technical
matters, but this means the missions would be costly.
54.   A second lesson is that the Bank should make every effort to minimize changes in the staff
it assigns to a particular project. The continuity of staff the Bank assigns to a project has a large
impact on effectiveness of project execution. Achieving this goal is particularly difficult over a
long period of time.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
55.   The PCU required a strong organization with full support from FMTA and required
appropriate staff and facilities. Unfortunately, it never received the required support to enable it
to carry out its assigned functions. Moreover, the PMUs in NRC and NRC also did not receive
adequate support from their respective organizations. A shortage of counterpart funds in NRC



-12-
was another serious problem. These shortcomings account in large part for the lack of
achievement of the project. The failure to provide adequate project support indicated a lack of
full Borrower commitment to the project.
56.   Performance of the Borrower with regard to covenants in the Loan Agreement show
mixed results, as indicated in Table 11. NRC covenants fall into three categories: (i) counterpart
funding requirements; (ii) performance targets; and (iii) requirements relating to a subsidiary loan
agreement, auditing and the maintenance of financial records. Counterpart funding never reached
the levels required. None of performance targets, neither operating nor financial targets, were
achieved, except locomotive kilometers per day. With regard to other covenants, the subsidiary
loan agreement was executed, a special account was opened and proper financial records were
maintained and audited.
57.   Compliance with covenants relating to the NPA component was also mixed. Covenants
relating to subsidiary loan agreements, record keeping, opening of special accounts, and auditing
were generally complied with. NPA met its counterpart funding obligations. Performance under
other covenants, however, was less than satisfactory; the identification of equipment repair needs
was completed almost a year behind schedule and actual equipment repairs were accomplished
with a four year delay. Targets for cargo handling equipment availability were not achieved.
Also, working ratio targets were not reached; in fact, the working ratio became worse between
1986 and 1990 and, although it improved thereafter, never reached the target level.
58.   Two lessons may be drawn from the implementation experience. First, the combination in
a single operation of a significant TA program with a component designed to provide spare parts
required unusual skills mix and capabilities in the PMUs of NPA and NRC. The establishment of
separate coordination units within parastatals that are expected to be accountable, both for the
internalization of complex reorganization studies and also for the procurement of standard items,
is indeed questionable. A second lesson is that it is unrealistic to expect that major management
weaknesses would be eliminated in the course of a single project, when the adequate management
tools are not set in place ahead of effectiveness.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
59.   Relations between the Bank and the agencies involved in the execution of the project were
generally satisfactory. Communications facilities between Nigeria and the Bank in Washington
were often poor during the period of project implementation, and the Bank's field office played a
vital role in expediting communications between Bank headquarters, the PCU and other executing
agencies.
60.   Bank staff were flexible in their dealings with the Borrower and agreed to changes in the
project as warranted by unanticipated events. The amounts of funds allocated to different project
categories in the Loan Agreement were revised from time to time, as indicated in Table 9. Also,



-13-
the closing date was extended on three separate occasions, the first extension to June 1993, the
second to December 31, 1993 , and the third to June 1994.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
61.   The performance of consultants involved in the project was mixed. In carrying out the
NPA's equipment rehabilitation program, consultants performed poorly with long delays in
completion of work on Phases 2 and 3, in part at least, because of the deportation of some of their
personnel. On studies also, the performance of consultants varied considerably, as indicated in
Table 3.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
62.   The legal documents were sufficiently clear and specific for effective implementation of
the project. The President's Report provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower
during implementation. Supervision reports, quarterly progress reports of the Borrower and other
data in project files were adequate for the purposes of preparing this PCR.



-14-
PART II: BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
(THE BORROWER WAS GIVEN THE REQUIRED TIME OF THREE MONTHS TO
PREPARE ITS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT. HOWEVER, THE BORROWER
DID NOT SUBMIT THE ASSESSMENT.)



-15-
PART mII: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



-16-
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan No. and Title                 Purpose           Year of      Status
Approval
Loan 193-UNI Railway Project           Rehabilitation            1958     Completed
Loan 694-UNI Transport Rehabilitation  Wagons, spares, track     1970     Completed
Project                                material and equipment
Loan 326-UNI Apapa Port                Port development          1963     Completed
Loan 922-UNI Apapa Port                Container berths,         1973     Completed
equipment, technical
assistance
Source: President' Report: Transport Parastatals Project
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Item                Planned          Revised           Actual
Invitation by government                                          4/84
Identification                                                    6/84
Appraisal                       9/83                              5/85
Negotiation                                                       12/85
Board Approval                                                   6/26/86
Loan Signature                                                  10/31/86
Loan Effectiveness            1/23/87                            1/23/87
Loan Closing                  6/30/92          12/31/92          6/30/94
12/31/93
Last Disbursement                        T                      11/30/94
Sources: President's Report; IBRD "Statement of Loans" for various years.



-17-
Table 3: Studies
A. NRC
Activity             Objective            Main Output       Major Achievements        Remarks
1. Revitalization   Aimed at identifying   Technical and        First detailed look at   Completed in
Study               problems of NRC and    Management audit of   NRC since Canac      October 1988 and
their remedies. Led to    NRC, Manpower     Study of 1974.        FMTA policy
formulation of         Planning and         Provided basis for    position given to
Diagnostic, Corporate    Development Plan,  NRC/govt.             WB in Dec. 1988.
Plan, Action Plan,     Investment Plan      appreciation of the   Intervention of
Manpower Plan,         (1988-98), Corporate   deep-seated problems   TCPC in early 1989
Investment Plan (10 yrs)  and Business Plan (5   of NRC and the need   led to policy
and Draft Performance   yrs), Draft         for major policy and    conflict with
Agreement. Review of   Performance          institutional reforms.   WB/FMTA which
conditions of service  Agreement and        Provided the basis for  frustrated latter's
done also             Immediate Action      WB acceptance of      attempts at
Plan.                provision of assistance  implementation of
to NRC in support of   study
the reforms and      recommendations
TCPC's subsequent
reform activities.
2. Management       To develop Corporate-    NONE               NONE                  Although awarded,
Information System    wide MIS based on                                               not implemented
(MIS) Study         recommendations                                                   due to non-
emanating the                                                     implementation of
Revitalization Study                                              Revitalization Study
recommendations.
3. Traffic Costing  To establish a traffic  Traffic costing fully    Provided framework    Not fully
Study               coating and business   defined and           for NRC to get a     implemented
evaluation system and    computerized. Draft   detailed and       because of lack of
Unit (TCBEU) within    MIS produced.        comprehensive view    management
NRC.                   TCBEU framework      of its business       commitment (data
designed include job    transaction and   to fully validate the
description, etc. and    mechanism for    system not able to
recruitment advert.    informed business   be collected due to
Shell of unit created    decisions and     lack of funds and
with seconded internal  monitoring of market   external recruitment
staff.               trends.               not done).
4. Valuation of     To value the landed    Draft valuation and   Provided an in       Final Report not
Assets              assets of NRC and also   legal reports for  indication of the     submitted
plants, equipment, etc.   landed Assets and  potential worth of   especially the plant
to allow for NRC's    Interim Reports for the  NRC landed assets  and machinery
restructuring (financial   valuation of the  and highlighted its  valuation due to
corporate).            plants, machinery, etc.  inadequate        non-payment of fees
management to date   to consultant
and inadequacy of it to  valuers by NRC.
the rewards.
5. Actuarial Study    To establish the state of  First valuation  Led to realization of
of Pension Fund     the Fund and make      exercise of the Fund    need to strengthen the
recommendations on its  in recent times.    management of the
future.                Established the      Fund (which was
actuarial state of the    done) and the need to
Fund and outlined    find ways of making it
options for the Fund to  solvent (which was
meet its liabilities and  not done).
suggested how fund
may be strengthened.



-18-
B. NPA
Activity            Objective          Main Output      Major Achievements        Remarks
1. MIS Study -      To define            Final Reports and    A new accounting    Described in project
Phases I and 11-    commercially-        Accounting Manuals  system was evolved   document as MIS for
New Accounting      oriented accounting                       and implemented but  the authority, but in
System and          system and                               its computerization    fact TOR narrowed
Implementation      implement,                                has been limited to   it to simply evolving
including                                only the payroll     new accounting
computerization                                               system and
implementing it. An
MIS strategy evolved
for definition and
implementation
under project never
implemented.
2. MIS Study -      Expansion of         MIS Strategy Report  Led to realization by   Never implemented,
Phase Im - Definition  accounts system into                   NPA of the           perhaps because of
of Corp. wide MIS    full MIS for all                         limitations of their   the TCPC reform
system              departments                               information and      proposals which had
management          implication for the
decision-making     form of MIS to be
basis and agreement  evolved.
of for redressing the
situation.
3. Manpower         To establish         Final Reports        Used by NPA and      Indicated a need for
Planning and        optimum staffing                          TCPC to undertake    detailed study of
Development Study   levels, conditions of                     major staff          NPA operational
service, review                          rationalization in   practiced towards
organizational                           1990/91             their improvement
structure, etc.                                               and, perhaps, more
staff reductions. Not
followed-up.



-19-
C. FMTA
Activity (Contr.         Objective          Main Output    Major Achievements           Remarks
Value)
FMTA Policy          To define the role of   Diagnostic and   Provided same         Usefulness reduced
Studies. Etc.        transport parastatals,  Final Report    background input into  by delay in execution,
1. TRAPARS -         government's policy                      evolvement of first   which prevented its
Future Role and      position, the entities'                  National Transport    use by TCPC in its
Policy Options for    resource needs and                      Policy for Nigeria    work on reform of
Transport Parastatals  performance targets                                          transport parastatals.
($210,308
+N660,265 =
$294,957
equivalent)
2. FREMOPS -         To assess the demand    Diagnostic and   Provided data and     Gave clear idea of
Freight and          for freight and          Final Report    policy                cost and non-optimal
Multimodal           multimodal traffic and                   recommendations       muse of multi-modal
Operations Study.    the institutional, legal                 used as input to      transport. In
(f, 107,176          and investment                           National Transport    particular, highlighted
+N173,556 =          framework for                            Policy                high cost to the
$223,791             improving present                                              economy of
equivalent)          situation and future                                           bureaucratic customs
prospects.                                                     procedures. Useful
study that has been
.___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ____underutilized.
3. Domestic          To review the state of    Diagnostic and   Included a National    Most of its policy
Aviation Policy      domestic aviation and   Final Reports    Airspace Traffic      recommendations
(S57,643 +           recommend ways of                        System which          overtaken by actions
N163,152 = $78,559  improving the operation                   provided for military   of FMOA which was
equivalent)          of the sub-sector.                       and civilian needs.   created in 1988 from
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   FM T A .
4. Management        To design MIS for the                            __            Firm of consultants
Information System    monitoring of the                                             appointed never
(MIS) - Phase I      performance of the                                             commenced work due
sector and of the                                              to none finalization of
activities of the                                              contract.
Ministry. Included pilot
_  implementation.
5. Development of    To improve the policy    .                                     Not executed.
Policy Analysis      formulation and
Division - Phase I   implementation capacity
of FMTA by reinforcing
the capabilities of Policy
Analysis Division of
TCID. Included training
program.
6. NTSP - National   Primarily to design the    Interim Report   None               Terminated due to
Transport Survey     specifications of a                                            slow progress by
and Projections      transport statistics data                                      consultant and their
(Review and          bank - scope, data                                             subsequent request
Extensions) - Phase I  gathering and                                                for increases in
(S156,420 +         processing and                                                 reimbursable costs
N498,762 =           computer needs, etc.                                           which was rejected.
S227,151             Did not include
equivalent)          purchase of computer
which was to be in
Phase 11 of the study.



-20-
Activity (Contr.         Objective          Main Output    Major Achievements         Remarks
Value)
7. Lagos Mass        To determine the        Diagnostic and   Provided basis for   Main
Transit and          contents of a proposed    data collection   identification and  recommendations
Transport Systems    Mass Transit Project for  and Final     ongoing preparation    adopted by a
Management Study    funding by WB.           Reports,        (by WB/LASG) of       workshop on the
($960,000)           Included system         Working         Lagos Urban           recommendations of
specification and       Papers and      Transport Project to   the study. Findings
preliminary engineering   Drawings      be executed by        and
design of infrastructures               LASG.                 Recommendations of
(roads, railways, etc.)                                      the study summarized
in a Sunimary Report
produced for the
workshop.
8. NFIT              To formulate a Strategic  Final Report    Provided a framework  Although adopted in
Developnment Plan    Development Plan for                    for reorienting the   principle, its
and Strategy         NITT to guide its                       priorities for NlTT's   implementation
($54,900)            development over a five                 incremental           stalled by NMTl's
year period, with agreed                development, the     inability to obtain
recommendations to be                   financial and other   external funding.
sued as a basis for                    resource implications.
seeking external
funding.
9. Training          External and local      Evaluation      Training              Inadequate
Programs Phases I &   training of senior and  Report for     opportunities         monitoring of inpact
II ($216,603 +       middle management       Phase I         provided to almost all  on post-training
$313,264 =           staff of FMTA, and its                  senior staff of FMTA    performiance of
$529,867)            parastatals, especially                 and a large number of  beneficiaries.
NRC & NPA                               senior staff of its   Selection of
parastatals, mainly on   beneficiaries also not
management aspects   optimal. Parastatals
of transport planning   could have benefited
and management       more.
10. National Motor   To evolve a unified     Draftl Report to  Not possible to assess
Vehicle              vehicle licensing,      FMTA            since report yet to be
Administration       registration, etc. system               accepted.
System - Phase I     for the country
($250,000)
11. Maritime        Same as for NITf above  Draft Report           - ditto -
Academy, Oron:
Development Plan
and Strategy
($53,334)
12. National        To produce a Draft       Draft Policy    Provided a holistic   Implementation has
Transport Policy     National Policy         Document        understanding of      not been effectively
($14,915)            Document                                transport sector trends  carried out.
by sector managers at
state and national
levels when discussed
by National Council
of T ransport in 1992.
Adopted by Federal
Executive Council in
May 1993.



-21-
Activity (Contr.        Objective         Main Output   Major Achievements          Remarks
Value)
13. Revitalization  To monitor the work of   Comments on    Helped to facilitate
Study: Monitoring    the international      study          political acceptability
of Study Consultants  consultants undertaking   consultants'  of the study's findings
(N917,004           the main study.         outputs        and
S124,248                                                   recommendations,
equivalent)                                                which at the time,
were seen as
controversial.
14. Inland          To assess the potential   Final Report    Highlighted the need
Waterways           for nland Waterways in                 for institutional
Development Study -  Nigeria                               reforms in the more
Phase I ($180,000)                                         effective management
of the use of Nigeria's
I inland waterways.    I
Source: Supervision Reports



-22-
Table 4: Procurement of SDare Parts
A. NRC
Tranche I - Spare Parts
1.     Lot/Item          SLC 486/Loco   SLC 486/Loco   SLC/486/3         SLC 486/2       SLC 486/Loco
Supplied          Spares          Spares          Loco Spares    Loco Spares     Spares
2.     Contractor         Gen. Motors    GE Electric     GE (Canada)    Kessler (USA)  Holdtrade
(USA)          (USA)                                           GmbH
(Germany
3.     Contract Value     $232,414.00    $1,658,788      $379.170.00     $766,488.33     $399,156
4.     Date of Bid        11/9/87         11/9/87         11/9/87        11/9/87         11/9/87
2Opening
5.     Date of           23/11/87        23/11/87        23/11/87        23/11/87        23/11/87
compilation of
Bid Evaluation
6.     Date of Award      27/7/88        27/7/88         27/7/88         27/7/88         27/7/88
7.     Date of            17/11/88        17/11/88       17/11/88        17/11/88        17/11/88
_   Agreement
8.     Date of           Sept. 1990      5/1/89 (reqd.    Sept. 1990     Sept. 1990      Sept. 1990
Confirmation of                   Form M only)
Order/LC                          due Adv. Pmt.
9.     Expected
shipment date
10.    Actual date of    7/9/90          Aug. 1989       Oct. 1990       Feb. 1991       Oct. 1990
shipment
11.    Date arrived port  20/9/90        Sept. 1989      Nov. 1990       31.3.91         Oct. 1990
12.    Date cleared or    Dec. 1990      Sept. 1989      Dec. 1990       Jun. 1991       Jan. 1991
delivered to NRC
13.    Remarks:
Time Elapsed to:
Award/Approval
(a)    Agreement          8 months       8 months        8 months        8 months        8 months
(b)    Confimnation       5 months       5 months        5 months        5 months        5 months
(c)    Shipment          23 months       2 months        23 months       23 months       23 months
(d)    Clearance          5 days         7 months         I month        I month         I month
(e)                       3 months       no loss in time   I month       I month         3 months
Total elapsed time (4 to    36           24              36              43              38
12) months



-23-
Emergency/Supplementary Orders
I.   Lot/Item       SLC 536 -    SLC 558 -    SLC 566 -       SLC 567 -        SLC 568 -   M3556(W)
Supplied       Undersize    Emergency    Repair of 18    Remanufacture   Loco         - Elec
bearings for  spares for    No. Traction    of 7 Diesel   Starting    Overhead
1801 class    1801 class    Motors       Engines          Batteries    Crane
Spame
2.   Contractor     GE (USA)    GE (USA)    ABB Service,   GM (USA)            Rocket (S.   Crown
Spain                          Korea)       Agents/I
Morris of
UK
3.   Contract Value  $54,750      $45,638.68    $592,713      $1,171,835       $156,480    S188,483
4.   Date of Bid    13/12/89      13/12/89     7/3/90         7/3/90           7/3/90      21n188
Opening
5.   Date of        13/12/89      13/12/89     1214/90        29/3/90          12/4/90
Evaluation
6.   Date of Award   13/2/90      13/2/90      15n/91         Re-negotiated    12/4/90     18t7/89
_____________                             4/3/91
7.   Date of        23/3/90       23/3/90      17/9/91        4/6/92           27/5/91
Agreement
8.   Date of        3/5/90        3/5/90       15/3/93        9/2/93           25/11/91    June 1990
Confirnation
of Order
9.   Expected       July 1990     July 1990                                    25/5/92
Shipment Date
10.  Actual Date    31/1/91       31/1/91      18/3/93        29/4/93          26/4/92     28/3/91
Shipped
11.  Dated Arrived   11/3/91      11/3/91      13/4/93        25/5/93          30/5/92     17/4/91
Port
12.  Date Cleared    23/8/91     23/8/91       19/5/93        7/10/93          18/12/92    25/9/91
or Delivered to
l__ NRC
13.  Remarks:
Time Elapsed
to:
(a)  Award          2 months      2 months     15 months      24 months        11 months   12 months
(b)  Agreement       I month      I month      2 months       2 months         2 months
(c)  Confirmation    2 months     2 months     7 months       8 months         6 months
(d)  Shipment       8 months      8 months     I month        2 months         5 months
(e)  Clearance      5 months      5 months     4 months       5 months         7 months    5 months
Total elapsed time (4    21           21             39             42             33          38
to 12) months



-24-
Tranche II - Spare Parts
1.   Lot/Item       SLC 594/1-GM   SLC 594/3-   SLC 594/2-  SLC 594/4 -  SLC         SLC        SLC
Loco Spares    1801 Loco    1701 and    Air Brake    594/6 -    594/7      594/5
Spares       1801 Spares  Spares      Loco       Wheels    Kessler
Batteries   & Aides   Spares
2.   Contractor     GM (USA)        GE (USA)    GE            HoldtraW    Rocket    Satusung   Gesticorp
(Canada)    AMECO        (Korea)   (Korea)   (Swiss)
(USA)
3.   Contract Value  $1,072,131.37   $859,302.12   $1,155,166   $470,883.0  S370,012   S344,156   $46,515
6
4.   Date of Bid    20/7/90         20/7/90      20/7/90      20t7/90     20/790    20/M90    20/7/90
-   Opening
5.   Date of        10/9/90         10/9/90      10/9/90      10/9/90     10/9/90    10/9/90    10/9/90
Evaluation                    _
6.   Date of Award   17/4/91        17/4/91      17/4/91      17/4/91     17/4/91    16/4/91    19/4/91
Amended                   Amended
21/8/91                   on 27/6/91
7.   Date of                       26/91         6/8/91       27/8/91     27/5/91    24/6/91    24/6/91
Agreement
8.   Date of                       Feb. 1992     Feb. 1992    23/1/92     25/11/91              22/11/91
Confirmation  L              I            I
9.   Expected                      Aug. 1992    Aug. 1992   Jul. 1992     Apr.                 May
Shipment Date X                                         __!__          1992                1992
10.  Actual Date                   22/4/92       1/10/.92     12/6/92     10/5/92               15/6/92
Shipped                                                 5/9/92
11.  Date Arrived    1/9/93 and     14/5/92      27/10/92     17/7/92,    25/5/92    13/10/92   22/6/92
Port           15/10/93                     and          10/8/92,                         by air
______________  ____________  14/12/92    23/9/92
12.  Date Cleared   in batches from   23/10/92   15/12/92 -   25/9/92,    22/9/92    3/2/93    25/9/92
or Delivered to  23/12/93 to                15/1/93     21/9/92,
NRC            17/5/94                                   6/8/93
13.  Remarks: Time
Elapsed to:
Award
(a)  Agreement      7 months        7 months     7 months    7 months    7 months  7 months  7 months
(b)  Confirmation                   3 months     4 months    4 months     I month    2 months  2 months
(c)  Shipment                      7 months      6 months    5 months    6 months               5 months
(d)  Clearance                     2 months      2 months    4 months    5 months               6 months
(e)                 3-7 months     5 months      2 months    2-3 months   4 months  4 months  3 months
Total elapsed time (4   39-44           27          29-30       26-37        26         31         26
to 12) months 



- 25 -
Spare Parts Purchased from NRC Resources. (1986-1993)
Catbay             1986          1987       1988         1929         1990          1991         1992           1993           ToWa1
Repair Parts    USS241,051     92,254      123,424    73,090        1,026,960    825,023        364,119      402,450        3,219,371
N271,441       392,749    237,395    580,335        8,173,681    8,062,178      5,508,097    9,452,827     32,C6U4703
Runnrng Spam    USS2S5,798     S6,679      134,313    21,292        47,563        14,233                     74,650         724.714
N303,545       319,478    571,722    540,932        377,651      I                N/A        1,326,196     3,684,784
Coringunbles       N/A          NIA         N/A          N/A          N/A           N/A          N/A            N/A            N/A
Total           USS527,029     183,933    257,737     154,3S2       1,134,523    839,26         364,119      483,100        3,944,085
N574,986       718,227    209.123     1,121,267     8,551,332    2,247,432    5,508,097      tO,S39,023    36,369,487
Note:
1.       Exchange rate was as at the tune of contract.
2.       Figures are invoiced values. Clearance and other charges not included.
3.       Most of the consumable items were purchased directly by users through cash releases and imprests and hence
the costs could not be isolated from other materials expenses.
Source: Extracted from NRC Store's Register



-26-
B. NPA
Project Element           Contractor           Contract Value *    Payment to-            Remarks
date*      _  _  _  _  __  _  _  _  _
A. Technical Assistanc
1. Equipment and workshops  Hamburg Post                                            Completed. Spare parts
rehabilitation           ConsultingiTechnology                                      identification phases executed
Systems                                                    timely but preparation of bid
- Phase I                Nigeria                $241,000 plus N440,000   fully paid    documents and bid evaluation
-Phase 11                -ditto-                S147,000*              fully paid    unduly delayed by consultant's non-
- Phase m                -ditto-                S107,200*              fully paid    perfonnance and non-compliance
with bidding conditions in bid
2. New Accounting System    Coopers and Lybrand  $47,348 plus N441,851    fully paid    evaluation.
and Implementation include.
Computerization
3. Manpower Planning and    Fountainhead and
Development Study        Coopers and Lybrand    S202,863 plus N594,147   fully paid
B. Sp=r Parts
I. Demas Cranes          Flohr and Co.          $392,149.11             fully paid    Fully supplied. Repairs ongoing
IPESL                 DM346,703.65            fully paid    but near completion
2. Jones Cranes          Rannel                 199,817.00              fully paid    Spare parts fully supplied
Damen                 106,305.00              fully paid    Spare parts fully supplied
3. Hyster Container      Hyster                 $362,543.00             fully paid  Mostly supplied.
Handlers                 New Ventures Nig. Ltd.   S 38,852.00          fully paid    Repairs started but stalked by
Various by int'l shipping  $1,799,717.60     fully paid    insufficiency of spares supplied.
4. Caterpillar Forklifts  MAFI Transport System                                     Additional needs being compiled
IPESL                 S324,823.96             fully paid    Spare parts fully supplied. Repair
works ongoing
5. MAFI Trailers         All World Trading Co.    S147,866.00           fully paid    -ditto-
$228,136.16            fully paid    -ditto-
C. Workshop Eauioment
1. Tools and equipment   VASAR Services         S1,226,200.74          Fully paid    Supplied and installed.
2. Hydraulic equipment   All World Trading Co.    S163,314.00           -ditto-      Supplied
*Status as of May 1994
Source: Supervision Reports



-27-
Table 5: Proiect Costs
(USS million)
Appraisal         |          Actual*
NRC__________   Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
NRC
Tech Assistance     2.00     2.43      4.43                1.63
Spare Parts         0.00     12.28     12.28              11.04
Equipment           0.00      1.23     1.23               0.10
Sub Total        2.00     15.94     17.94     3.36     12.77     16.13
NPA
Tech. Assistance    1.45      1.83     3.28               0.56
Spare Parts        0.00      4.37      4.37               2.03
Equipment           0.00      1.87     1.87               0.00
Sub Total        1.45      8.07     9.52      2.70      2.59     5.29
FMTA
Tech. Assistance    1.20     1.60      2.80      0.70     2.78      3.48
Total Project Cost    4.65   25.61    30.26      6.76     18.14     24.90
* Data available are not sufficiently detailed to permit a breakdown of costs by sub-component.
Note: Contingencies in appraisal cost table of President's Report have been added to the basic
cost estimates for the project components.
Sources: President's Report and Disbursement Officer'



-28-
Table 6: Proiect Financing
(US$ million)
Source of Funds                Appraisal Estimate   Actual
Nigerian Railway Corporation                       5.8             3.36
Nigerian Port Authority                            2.7             2.70
Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation         0.9             0.70
IBRD                                              20.9             18.14
Total                                           30.5            24.90
Source: President's Report and Disbursement Officers' Report on disbursements.



-29-
Table 7: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year and Quarter    Appraisal Estimate            Actual            Actual as percent of
Estimate
FY1987
Sep 1986
Dec 1986
Mar 1987
Jun 1987                          4.9                      0
FY1988
Sep 1987                                                  0.7
Dec 1987                                                   0.8
Mar 1988                                                   0.8
Jun 1988                          11.0                     1.6                      13
FY1989
Sep 1988                                                   1.7
Dec 1988                                                   1.8
Mar 1989                                                  2.8
Jun 1989                         15.4                      3.5                     23
FY 1990
Sep 1989                                                  3.7
Dec 1989                                                  3.8
Mar 1990                                                   4.8
Jun 1990                          18.5                     5.5                     30
FY1991
Sep 1990                                                  6.6
Dec 1990                                                   7.0
Mar 1991                                                  7.0
Jun 1991                         20.6                      7.4                      36
FY1992
Sep 1991                                                  7.7
Dec 1991                                                   8.0
Mar 1992                                                   8.2
Jun 1992                         20.9                     10.0                     48
FY1993
Sep 1992                                                  13.4
Dec 1992                                                  13.8
Mar 1993                                                  14.7
Jun 1993                                                  15.3                     73
FY1994
Sep 1993                                                  17.5
Dec 1993                                                  17.7
Mar 1994                                                  17.8                     85
Jun 1994                                                  17.8
FY1995
Sep 1994                                                  17.9
Dec 1994                                                  18.1                     87
Mar 1995
Jun 1995
Source: Appraisal estimates from President's Report dated 6/5/86. Actual disbursements from
IBRD "Statement of Loans" for various years.



-30-
Table 8: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Category              Original         Revised          Actual
Allocation      Allocation     Disbursements
NRC
Technical Assistance             2.04             2.33            1.63
Spare Parts                      6.50            11.22            11.04
Comp. & Trg Equip.               1.00            0.50             0.10
Unallocated                      2.60             0.00            0.00
Sub Total                     12.14           14.05            12.77
NPA
Technical Assistance             1.50            0.60             0.56
Spare Parts                      2.28            2.79             2.03
Comp, WS, & Trg Equip.           1.50            0.13             0.00
Unallocated                      1.61             0.00            0.00
Sub Total                     6.89             3.52            2.59
FMTA
Technical Assistance             1.17             3.33            2.78
Unallocated                      0.70             0.00            0.00
Sub Total                     1.87             3.33            2.78
Total                           20.90            20.90            18.14
Sources: President's Report and Disbursement Officer's Report on disbursements.



-31-
Table 9: Use of Bank Resources
A. Missions
Stage of Project    MonthNYear    No. of       Days in       Specialization    Performance     Dates of
Cycle                        Persons        Field       Represented "     Rating Status    R
Identification      11/82             4            28       EC,PE,FA,C                          01/28/83 1,3
Preparation 1       11/82             1            10       ED                                  12/20/82
Preparation 2      06/83              1            14       C                                  n/a
Preparation 3      06/84              3            10       EC,RE,PE                           07/19/84
Preparation 4       11/84             2            10       EC,FA                               12/06/84
Pre-Appraisal      02/85              1            14       EC                                  03/29/85
Appraisal          05/85              5            20       EC,ME,PE,RE,FA                      07/18/85
Post Appraisal     09/85              3             7       FA,PE,RE                            10/25/85
Post-negotiations                     1             5       FA                                  N/A
Supervision 1       11/86             3            21       EC,FA,PE            1,1,1,1         01/08/87
Supervision 2      03/87              1             6       FA                                 04/20/87
Supervision 3      05/87              1            10       PE                  1,1,1,1        06/12/87
Supervision 4      07/87              1             5       EC                                 08/31/87
Supervision 5      07/87              1             4       RE                  1,1,2,2         09/04/87
Supervision 6      11/87              2            3        RE,PE               1,2,2,2         12/09/87
Supervision7       02/88              1            15       FA                  1,3,2,2        04/11/88
Supervision 8      06/88              1            2        FA
Supervision 9       10/88             3             9       FA,EC,RE            1,3,2,2         12/08/88
Supervision 10     06/88              1            10       FA                  2,2,2,2,1      07/24/89
Supervision 11      11/89             I            12       RE                 I_____            2/21/89
Supervision 12     02/90              1            10       PE                                 04/03/90
Supervision 13     05/90              2             5       FA,RE               2,2,2,2,1      08/08/90
Supervision 14      11/90             3                    | FA,RE,PE           2,2,2,2,2       12/20/90
Supervision 15     03/91              2             7       ER,RE               2,2,2,2,2       04/15/91
Supervision 16      10/91             1             3       EC                 _________   11/27/91
Supervision 17     02/92              1            17       PE                 _____   04/01/92
Supervision 18      10/92             1             1       EC                  _ =________
Supmision 19       02/83              1             5       FA
According to TOR dated February 13, 1992 and September 27, 1992, brief supervision visits were scheduled for March and
October, respectively, but there are no reports on file.
Source: Correspondence Files.
1.      PE = Ports Engineer, EC = Economist; FA = financial Analyst; DC = Division Chief;
RE = Railways Engineer, C = Consultant; ME = Mechanical Engineer, ED = Education
2.      Project Brief
3.     Issues Paper/Decision Mernorandum dated July 19, 1985. TOR Item 5.



-32-
Table 10: Status of Covenants
A. NRC
S/N            COVENANT                   COMPLIANCE                            REMARKS
a) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan  Complied with       The effectiveness of the Loan Agreement depended on
Agreement between NRC and                             this agreement. it was signed in April 1987.
Government (Section 3.02 (a) of
the Loan Agreernent)
b) Fulfillment of the terms of the   Partially complied with.   The conditions were not fully met by Government.
Subsidiary Loan Agreement such                         NRC was only partially assisted financially when it
as Section 11, which compelled                         found it difficult to provide local funds for the project.
the FGN to assist NRC in                              In 1990, about N42 mn was required but only N10 mn
providing counterpart funding                          was provided. In 1992, N12 mn was required to finalize
where the Corp. was not                               the valuation of assets, only N2.6 mn was released. No
financially capable of doing so.                       funds were released for clearance of spare parts from
the port. As a result, the assets valuation could not be
finalized; valuable spare parts were adversely delayed.
2.     NRC to open a Special Account    Complied with         The Dollar Special Account was operated to the
(Dollar) and a Revolving Fund                          satisfaction of the World Bank and it was retired in
Account (Naira). Section 2.01                          October 1993 when the Agreement was to terminate on
(b) and (e) of the Project                             31/12/93, as required., there was never insufficient
Agreement                                              funds for reasons stated in l(b) above.
3.     List of spare parts for        Complied with in June    The Canac and Transurb experts chosen for the
rehabilitation program to be   1987                    compilation could not be on site until April 1987. They
submitted to the Bank no later                         completed inspection of the Locos in June 1987. Delay
than 31/3/87 (amended from                             was probably due to long negotiation with and
31/12/86), Section 2.01 (e).                           mobilization by donor agencies as NRC, for financial
reasons preferred to benefit from CIDA and Belgium aid
offers for the exercise.
4.     NRC to procure spare parts out of  Complied with       Satisfactory evidence of compliance submitted by NRC
its own resources to the value of                      was accepted by the Bank during their supervision
$1.75 mn for Tranche I not later                       mission of June 7-16, 1990 and confirmed in the Aide-
than 26 months from loan                               Memoire of that mission.
effectiveness (Section 3.02(b) of
PA.
5.     Loco perfonnance and           Not achieved            Targets were not achieved because the rehabilitation
maintenance targets to be                              program suffered delays as a result of long delay in
achieved under Part C of the                          receipt of spare parts, insufficient funds even from the
project. Schedule 3 of the Project                    loan (materials had to be reduced to the available
Agreement                                              money) and complete lack of running spares due to poor
local funding. Failure rates of locomotives increased
because of unreliability of cannibalized parts on which
R/Shed maintenance depended. These factors
contributed to the observed inadequate management of
the locomotive maintenance function and lowered
quality of maintenance undertaken.
6.     Except as the Bank shall       Not achieved            Operating ratio, that is, working expenses to operating
otherwise agree, NRC to attain                        revenue had remained well above 240 percent. Despite
operating ratio of 180 percent by                      various actions taken by NRC management to reduce
31/12/87. Section 3.04(a) of                           operating expenditures such as heavy staff reductions in
Project Agreement.                                     1988 and 1993, upward adjustments in rates and fares
in 1990, 1992 and 1993, the total expenditure continued
to outstrip the total revenue. May not be unconnected
with NRC's inability to fully achieve traffic levels due
to lack of sufficient locomotives (and their inadequate
use and fleet management) and rolling stock, unhealthy



-33-
SIN           COVENANT                  COMPLlANCE                            REMARKS
political and industrial atmosphere that existed in the
country since 1990. High inflation resulting from
devaluation of the Naira cunrency resulting in high wage
bills due upward revision of salaries and fringe benefits
by government after labor pressure. The expected gains
from World Bank project did not materialize due
reasons stated against procurement and loco
rehabilitation program.
7.     Financial Covenants:          Partially complied with    Audited accounts and related statements have been
a) Audited accounts to be                            submitted up to 1991 and submissions have lapsed
furnished to the Bank as soon as                     beyond the stipulated 6 months. The statement of
available but not later than 6                       affairs as of 31/12/86 was done under the project and
months from end of the fiscal                        audited accounts for 1987-91 were submitted as
year.                                                required, while 1992 and 1993 are yet to be submitted.
NRC blames the delay on problem of communication
between the divisions and the headquarters but it would
appear that excessive bureaucracy in the appointment of
external auditors are also responsible for the delay. The
firm to be appointed has to be approved by the FMTA.
Separate accounts and records were kept by NRC
b) Maintenance of separate    Complied with          project unit and separately audited as part of audit of
records of account for the WB                        overall accounts of NRC by auditors agreed to with the
Project                                              Bank.
c) Project accounts to be     Complied with
parately audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank
d) Records of expenditure on  Complied with
basis of statement of expenditure
to be properly kept, be available
for Bank's examination and such
expenditure audited as part of
audit of project account.
e) Maximum withdrawal from the                       The limit was exceeded by about $235,000.00 (with the
loan for Tranche I spare parts not  Not achieved     agreement of the Bank) due to the fact that the
to exceed $3.25 mrn.                                 necessary tools for both Tranche I and 2 had to be
procured early in the program.



-34-
B. NPA
SIN                         COVENANT                            COMPLIANCE           REMARKS
1.    a) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan agroement between NPA and  Complied with   The effectiveness of the
Government (Section 3.02(a) of the Loan Agreement                         Loan Agreement
depended on this
b) Fulfilhment of the tenns of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement such   Complied with   agreement. It was signed
as section 11 which compelled the FGN to assist NPA in providing          in April 1987.
counterpart funding where the Corp. was not financially capable of
___  doinig so.
2.    NPA to open a Special Account (Dollar) and a Revolving Fund  Complied with
____   Account (Naira. Section 2.01(b) and (c) of the Project Agreement.
3.    Report on spare parb, workshop and training needs for equipment   Complied in  Delay due to late
rehabilitation program to be submitted to the Bank no later than  May 1987  appointment of
31/12/86, Section 2.01(e)                                                consultants, inadequate
support personnel from
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ N P A
4.    NPA to procure spare parts out of its own resources to the value of   Complied with   NPA procured much more
SI .2 mn not later than 26 months from loan effectiveness (Section        than this amount but
3.02(b) of Project Agreement                                              without real prior
agreement with Bank
5.    Cargo handling equipment availability targets to be achieved under   Not achieved
part 8 of the project. Schedule 3 of the Project Agreenent
6.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NPA to attain operating    Not achieved  From 1986 to 1990, the
ratio of 110 percent, 90 percent, 85 percent and 80 percent by 1986,      ratio declined from 97 to
1987, 1988 and 1989, respectively and thereafter maintain the mtio        327 before it started to
of 75 percent, Section 3.04(a) of Project Agreement                       improve sharply after
cost-cutting (staff
reductions) and tariff
increases. It was 85 in
1992.
7     Financial Covenants:
a)Audited accounts to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available  Complied with
but not later than 6 months from end of the fiscal years.
b) Maintenance of separate records and account for the WB Project
Complied with
c) Project accounts to be separately audited by auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
Complied with
d) Records of expenditure on basis of statement of expenditure to be
properly kept, be available for Bank's examination and such
expenditure audited as part of project account.           Complied with
e) Maximum withdrawal from the loan for Tranche I spare parts
not to exceed $3.25 mn.
Exceeded



-35-
Annex A. NRC Workinif Ratios
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993
Revenue (total)      70.50     63.65     46.43     63.78      73.80    107.20    119.23    122.55
Working Expenses    149.40    191.74    189.04    219.92    253.23    314.39    325.98    292.09
Net Working Result   78.90     128.09    142.61    155.94    179.43    207.19    206.75    169.54
Working Ratio
Actual ( percent)     212       301       407       345       343        293       273       238
Target ( percent)               180       180       180        180       180       180       180
1.      Working expenses exclude depreciation
2.      Based on statement in Annex VI of President's Report, Working ratio for NRC in 1984 was 231 percent
and desired for 1995 was 94 percent.
Table 14: NRC - Summary Financial Statements
Source: Supervision Reports















IMAGING
Report No:       15870
Type: PCR



