Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4135-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
'O THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20-9 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
June 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985         May 1986
Currency Unit   =   Naira (N)                   N
US$1             =   N 0.89                  N 1.02
N 1              =   US$1.12                 US$0.98
(Exchange rate used in this report: US$1 = N 1.00)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)       2       =  0.6 mile (mi)         2
1 s9uare kilometer (km )       =  0.39 square miles (mi )
I m  = 1,000 liters (1)       =  6.37 barrels = 267.54 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CWTC      -      Central Water Transportation Company
FMGN      -      Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FrTA      -      Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation
FMWH      -      Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
ICB       -      International Competitive Bidding
LIB       -      Limited International Bidding
NAA       -      Nigerian Airports Authority
NAL       -      Nigeria Airways Limited
NCHC      -      National Cargo Handling Company
NFC       -      National Freight Corporation
NNSL      -      Nigerian National Shipping Line
NPA       -      Nigerian Ports Authority
NRC       -      Nigerian Railway Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:                  Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries              Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation (FMTA)
Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA)
Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC)
Amount:                    US$20.9 million equivalent
Terms:                     Payable over 20 years, including 5 years grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:          Proceeds of the loan, other than the funds for
FMTA (US$1.9 million), will be on-lent to NPA
(US$6.9 million) and NRC (US$12.1 million) at the
same rate of interest as the Bank's loan over a
15 year term, including 5 years grace. NPA and
NRC would carry the exchange risk on their
respective portions of the loan.
Project Description:       The project is designed to improve the
performance of key transport parastatals and
assist the Federal Government in its initial
efforts more generally to reform transport
parastatals. The project would provide:
(a) technical assistance and training for NPA and
NRC to:  (i) improve internal financial controls,
accounting and management information systems,
(ii) define financial targets including a basis
for compensating for any non-commercial
obligations, (iii) carry out revenue/cost studies
to identify cost-cutting, marketing and
tariff-setting strategies, (iv) assist in
manpower plan-uing and development, including the
preparation of staff rationalization and training
programs, (v) assist in improving workshops and
operations, and (vi) promote more effective use
of computer facilities; (b) computer, workshop
and training equipment and spare parts in support
of the above-mentioned technical assistance; and
(c) technical assistance and consulting services
to FMTA to carry out a range of policy studies
including: (i) the future options for other
transport parastatals, including possible
restructuring, privatization or liquidation, (1i)
defining the respective roles of Nigeria Airways
and private operators in domestic aviation, and
(iii) assessing the feasibility of inter-modal
transport.
This document has a nsuicted disrbution and may be usd by redpients only in the performance
or their official dutil Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authozation.|



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
(Net of taxes and duties)
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million
NRC                             1.1        13.0         14.1
NPA                             0.8         6.5          7.3
FMTA                            0.6         1.1          1.7
Total Base Cost              2.5        20.6        23.1
Physical Contingencies          0.3         1.3          1.6
Price Contingencies             1.9         3.7          5.6
Total Project Cost           4.7        25.6         30.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                            0.3        20.6        20.9
Federal Government              0.9         -            0.9
NPA                             1.5         1.2          2.7
NRC                             2.0         3.8          5.8
Total                      4.7        25.6        30.3
Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year      1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
US$ millions
Annual                 4.9     6.1     4.4     3.1      2.1     0.3
Cumulative             4.9    11.0    15.4   18.5   20.6   20.9
a/ Based on regional profile for port and railway projects.
Benefits and Risks:        By improving the operations and procedures of
two major transport parastatals, by providing
the means to monitor the performance of these
parastatals more effectively, and by assisting
the Government to review the role and
performance of transport parastatals more
generally, the project is expected to promote
increased efficiency in the sector, lay the
groundwork for subsequent reform, and ultimately
reduce the fiscal burden which these enterprises
place on the Government.
The major risk is that the project may not fully
achieve its institutional reform objectives,
which require strong and continued commitment



- iii -
from a broad range of managers in the imple-
menting agencies. The management information
systems and performance targets being introduced
under the project should help in this regard.
The appointment of a project coordinator to
carry out detailed supervision, should allow
Bank supervision missions to focus on progress
with institutional reforms.
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                    No separate report
Map: IBRD 14702R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMMENATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE PEDERAT REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of
US$20.9 million for a Transport Parastatals Project to assist the
Government in -nitiating reform of parastatals in all transport subsectors
(rail, ports, road, river and aviation). The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. US$6.9 million would be on-lent to the Nigerian Ports Authority
(EPA) and US$12.1 million to the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) at the
same rate of interest as the Bank loan, repayable over 15 years, including
5 years of grace. NPA and NRC would carry the foreign exchange risk for
this on-lending.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this report
is based on the findings of economic missions that visited Nigeria in
November 1984 and in March/April 1985 for economic updating and policy
dialogue, supplemented by reviews of the 1986 budget and of other recent
policy initiatives of the Federal Government. Annex I presents selected
social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Macroeconomic Developments
3.        Structural Legacy of the Oil Boom (1973-80). The buoyant oil
market over the 1973-80 period dramatically altered Nigeria's resource
position. During this time the main objective of the Government was to
translate the large oil revenues into investments in social, economic and
physical infrastructure. While there were successes - a large functional
network of interstate roads was established, power generating capacity
tripled, primary school enrollment ratio doubled - the political and
Administrative systems at federal and state levels were not adequately
equipped to handle the new-found wealth. Uneconomic investments were
prevalent, while the policies pursued led to structural changes which left
the economy with substantial price and other distortions and with great
vulnerability to external shocks.
4.        The economy became almost completely dependent on the oil sector:
by the beginning of the 1980s, oil earnings accounted for 96 percent of
1/
This section is unchanged from Part I of President's Report No. P-4339-UNI
dated June 5, 1986, for the Multi-State Agricultural Development Project.



-2-
exports and over 80 percent of Federal Government revenues. The economy
soon began to exhibit the usual features of the "oil syndrome": booming
oil revenues, an appreciating currency, and domestic inflation, with the
consequent shift in the structure of production away from non-oil traded
goods, the increased dependence on imports, and growth of the public
sector. The impact on the agricultural sector - the major source of GDP
and exports before the oil boom -- was particularly severe: by 1980 its
share of non-oil GDP had fallen to 30 percent, from around 50 percent in
the early 1970s. Exports of palm products and groundnuts (of which Nigeria
was the world's largest exporter) had virtually disappeared. In addition,
the overvalued exchange rate, combined with the structure of trade taxes
and controls, encouraged the growth of import-based light consumer goods
industries which contributed little to value added. Thus, by 1980 imports
had reached a level of 24 percent of GDP, nearly double the percentage
prevailing in the immediate pre-boom years.
5.        The public sector grew in size and importance.  Nigeria entered
the 1980s with around half of its GDP and two-thirds of its modern sector
employment accounted for by the public sector.  Government recurrent
expenditures had risen to 11 percent and public investment to 15 percent of
GDP, the latter accounting for over half of total investment. A large part
of the recurrent expenditures supported a much increased civil service.
Many of the public investment projects were undertaken without sufficient
attention to their viability, the appropriateness of their design and the
implementation capacity of the Government agencies. By the beginning of
the 1980s, there were around 70 non-commercial and 110 commercial federal
public enterprises, many of which require extensive financial support to
cover operating losses.
6.        The Economic Crisis (1981-85).  Nigeria was ill-equipped
politically, administratively and structurally to deal with the abrupt end
of the oil boom in 1981. Partly because of expectations that the downturn
would be short-lived, the Federal and State Governments reacted only slowly
to the falling oil revenues: measures aimed at curbing and redirecting
expenditures were insufficient. Consequently, sizeable external and fiscal
imbalances emerged; external reserves fell and at the same time there was a
large-scale accumulation of arrears on top of substantial public borrowings
to finance the investment programs.
7.        Through the predominant use of demand management policies,
involving large expenditure cuts and the application of import controls,
the two successive military governments 1/ reduced the budget deficit to
GDP ratio from 10 percent in 1983 to 5 percent in 1985 and the external
account deficit to GDP ratio from 5 percent to a slight surplus. However,
no significant steps were taken to reduce the misalignment of relative
prices, the administrative controls and the public sector inefficiencies.
1/
The military government which took over in August 1985 replaced one which
had come to power at the end of 1983.



- 3 -
The naira continued to appreciate in 1984 (although there was some real
depreciation in 1985). Sectoral ceilings for credit allocations by banks
were enforced and interest rates were at levels resulting in negative real
yields (although this has been reversed in the past year). While actions
were taken to improve the system of trade taxes, continued price and other
trade interventions served to reinforce distorted signals. Moreover,
fiscal austerity was characterized by expenditure constraints without
sufficient regard to necessary expenditure reallocations: public
investment cutbacks proceeded across the board without adequate cognizance
of priorities and stage of completion. Outlays on supplies, spare parts
and routine maintenance were eroded. Significant sums were set aside to
support operating deficits of inefficient parastatals and to provide heavy
subsidies.
8.        In essence, the structure of the economy inherited from the oil
boom remained largely intact and this, combined with the sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade, resulted in poor economic performance
over the 1981-85 period. Production and employment in all sectors --
except agricultural production for the domestic market -- remained
depressed, with real GDP in 1985 being some 15 percent lower than at the
beginning of the 1980s, even after allowing for the slight upturn estimated
for 1985 as a result of increased oil production and improved harvests.
Construction and other service sectors were hard hit by the diminished
public expenditures and declined at a faster rate than GDP. The much
reduced supplies of raw materials and spare parts to the import-dependent
industrial sector led to widespread plant closures, a substantial drop in
capacity utilization (to about 25 to 35 percent) and extensive layoffs of
the workforce. Severe shortages of goods boosted the inflation rate -
peaking at around 40 percent in 1984 but receding substantially thereafter
- with scarcity rents of up to 400 percent for many essential goods
accruing to traders who, unlike manufacturers, were not subject to price
controls. The population growth rate of an estimated 3.3 percent per annum
led to significant declines in per capita real income and consumption; in
1985 these were well below the levels recorded in the pre-oil boom 1970s.
9.        National savings halved in real terms due to the decline in both
GDP and terms of trade, with the savings ratio in 1985 being around
17 percent of GDP. As a result, the-reduction in investment expenditures
was substantial: investment fell to under 14 percent of GDP in 1985., half
the peak level of 1981. The across-the-board public expenditure cutbacks
meant further delays in completing viable projects, thus escalating their
costs and depriving the economy of their benefits. Private investment
shrank at twice the rate of public investment and by 1985 constituted only
a quarter of the total.
10.       Meanwhile, external debt service requirements increased to
40 percent of exports and continue to accelerate. The external debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1985 of US$19.4 billion included an
estimated US$11.9 billion of medium and long-term public debt and trade
arrears of between US$5 and US$6 billion, of which US$1.3 billion has so
far been rescheduled. Paris and London Club creditors each account for
around one-third. There are also short-term external debts estimated at
around US$1 billion and private external debts of a further estimated



US$1 billion. The severity of Nigeria's debt situation relates not so much
to the total stock of debt (which in 1985 amounted to around 140 percent of
annual exports compared with the 255 percent average of all middle-income
heavily indebted countries) but to the "hump" of debt rellayments becoming
due in the period 1986-89, combined with the poor short-term outlook for
the oil market.
Adjustment Policy Issues and Recent Initiatives
11.       The Nigerian economy, already beset by financial imbalances and
structural weaknesses, was dealt another blow by the further sharp decline
in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986. Given the inadequate policies
of the past, this shock cannot be absorbed in a single year, nor by Nigeria
alone, at least during the next few years when the "hump" of debt
repayments becomes due. However, even though financial support from the
international community is needed to ease the burden impcsed by the
unfavorable debt repayment profile, it is imperative that appropriate
policies be adopted now in order to improve the ability of the economy to
cope with such external shocks, as well as with the effect of declining oil
reserves in the medium term. Such policies should shift the structure of
production towards efficient non-oil traded goods sectors, reduce the
import dependence of the economy and widen its resource base, and lessen
the dominance of the public sector and enhance the role of the private
sector.
12.       Recent Initiatives.  The previous military government had
committed itself to rectifying Nigeria's economic problems through
austerity alone, but the new government, which came into power in August
1985, declared its intent to move from austerity alone to austerity with
structural adjustment. Thus, even though there were in 1985 some positive
effects of the improved fiscal policies (e.g. the decline in the inflation
ate), the major improvement in policir-s geared towards further
stabilization as well as structural adjustment came with the 1986 budget
statements, and in suDsequent initiat.ves.  The:e make significant progress
in energy pricing and a good _tart on exchange rate, public expenditure and
parastatal reforms. The key reforms which have now been implemented
include: the introdVction of an across-the-board temporary import
surcharge of 30 percent. to serve as an implicit devaluation on the import
side;   the reactivation of the customs tariff drawback scheme to boost
further non-oil exports, and the raising of the foreign exchange retention
allowance of non-oil exporters from 10 to 25 percent; the removal of the
financial subsidy on energy products, which increased the prices of petrol
about 100 percent, diesel 170 percent, and fuel oil 250 percent (kerosene
prices were left unchanged); and a commitment to phase out the fertilizer
subsidy by 1989. The credit allocation system was simplified by reducing
the number of sectors with ceilings on bank lending. Finally, substantial
reductions were made in the salaries and fringe benefits of civil servants
and the freeze on hiring staff in a wide range of positions continued.
13.       In addition, the Government has announced that it intends to open
up a second-tier market for foreign exchange; this could be the first step
in moving towards an appropriate exchange rate. It has also announced its
intention to adopt further measures in the area of public resource



- 5 -
management policies: transfers to commercial parastatals are to be cut to
50 percent of their 1985 levels and the Government intends to divest itself
of public holdings in commercially-oriented enterprises and to entrust to
the private sector the procurement and distribution of fertilizers and
other agricultural inputs. The budget incorporated additional measures for
financial stabilization (based on oil prices of US$25 per barrel) which, if
carried out in full, would bring the federal budget deficit down to only
2 percent of GDP in 1986; however, given the fall in oil prices, the budget
will have to be adjusted for the deficit to be contained at that level.
14.       Many of the above measures are in line with recommendations made
earlier by the Bank in discussions with Nigerian officials. However, they
still fall short of the requirements for a viable structural adjustment
effort, with the lack of significant direct action on the exchange rate and
on import liberalization being the major shortcomings. The priorities for
further policy reforms would be: (i) correcting relative prices through
exchange rate adjustment, import liberalization and dismantling price
controls; (ii) overcoming the considerable public sector inefficiencies
through improved public expenditure programs and the speedy rationalization
of the parastatal sector; and (iii) reducing the severe imperfections in
the financial system, and maintaining appropriate interest rates. Tight
discipline on monetary expansion would have to be maintained with the
Government continuing to place strict constraints on the budget deficit.
While improved revenue measures should be pursued, these should not be seen
as a substitute for a slimmer bureaucracy and the privatization of public
commercial activities. In addition, special focus should be placed on the
removal of technological and supply constraints discouraging private
initiative and inhibiting efficient responses to favorable market
conditions. While the basic exchange rate, trade, incentive and financial
policy reforms will be crucial in this regard, constraints may exist at the
sectoral level (e.g. specific infrastructural deficiencies, lack of
particular skills) on which action must be taken to ensure the desirable
responses to the improved price signals.
15.       Prospects and Financing of Development.  As noted above, the
severity of Nigeria's debt situation, which has been made considerably
worse by the sharp fall in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986, relates
not so much to the size of the debt overhang, but to the unfavorable
payments profile and poor immediate outlook for oil: the "hump" of debt
repayments becoming due in the period 1986-89 coincides with the drop in
oil prices. The projected improvement in both factors in the early 1990s
will mean a sharp improvement in debt-service ratios. For 1986, however,
the debt-service ratio (on current estimates of debt) has shot up to an
unsustalnable level of 64 percent, assuming oil prices remain at about
US$15/barrel for the rest of the year. While the country could easily
cover the interest payments on the debt (which constitute 17 percent of
exports), it is clear that, even if the oil market recovers, Nigeria will
need a very substantial reform and refinancing package to tide it over the
difficult years ahead. In the absence of such policy reforms Nigeria's
creditworthiness would be limited, and it would thus be necessary to
re-examine the level of Bank lending, constraining it to the sectors of
longer-term impact which are relatively immune to the system of price
incentives.



-6-
16.       However, the Government realizes the urgency of the situation and
has asked the Bank to assist it in putting together a medium-term policy
reform and financing package which would be submitted to its financial
partners for their support during the very difficult adjustment period.
This package would aim at a fundamental restructuring of the economy,
together with an orderly reduction of debt-service ratios. This would
smooth out the payments profile between the late 1980s and early 1990s and
allow a modest increase in impnrts from their drastically low current
level, while at the same time building in mechanisms to cope with
uncertainties in oil revenues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1986 amounted to
US$2,760.2 million (net of cancellations). 2/   The amount of loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1986 was US$1,710.4 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,049.8 million. Agriculture accounts for about
43 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply
together for about 35 percent; and education, industry, urban, health, and
the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 22 percent. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, totalling US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made six loans to borrowers totalling
US$25.0 million, and six equity investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of
these amounts, US$6.3 million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or
sold. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits,
and IFC investments.
18.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant State Governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. To speed up disbursements, the Bank
reallocated the proceeds of several loans and increased disbursement
percentages.   Working within very severe and continuing resource
constraints, the Federal and the State Governments are instilling a greater
degree of discipline in their budgeting process and cutting back on new
capital expenditure in order to fund existing obligations.
19.       A number of important policy changes were announced in the 1986
budget speech. Provided these and other appropriate policy changes are
undertaken, the Bank's lending program would aim primarily at the urgent
diversification of Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence
upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the
1/
This section is unchanged from Part II of President's Report No. P-4339-UNI
dated June 5, 1986 for the Multi-State Agricultural Development Project.
2/
Including a US$5.0 million loan for an Industry Technical Assistance
Project which has not yet been signed.



-7-
same time, the Bank would continue to support efforts to raise the
productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the incidence
of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would
continue to provide support for agriculture and rural development with
emphasis on institution-building and transfer of technology, in order to
raise the standard of living of its population, particularly the rural
poor. The Bank would similarly support efforts to stimulate trade
liberalization, including a well-balanced and integrated development of
Nigeria's industrial sector focusing on import substitution and in the
longer run, on non-oil exports. This approach would entail a combination
of intensive sector work and policy dialogue with the Government, as well
as Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial subsectors.
20.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant
contribution in energy development and highway maintenance particularly
once the Government announced its decision in January 1986 to substantially
increase petroleum product prices. Similarly, there is a strong case for
continued lending to education. In this context, vocational, technical,
and teacher training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank
would support the Federal and State Governments' efforts to spread the
benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the
pressing problems of rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed
through a number of urban development projects focussed on the needs of the
urban poor and resource mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also
assisting the Government in tackling the country's health problems with a
project aimed at both federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continui:g
a dialogue with the Government on population issues, perhaps leading to
lending in this area.
21.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY78 to nearly US$199 million in FY85, Nigeria's disbursement
performance has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The
undisbursed balance now stands at 38 percent of some US$2.8 billion in
loans and credits approved. One of the reasons for this development is the
rapid expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact
that the closing dates for a number of larga loans, with relatively large,
planned disbursements during the early years, were extended during this
period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, however,
disbursements have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and
institutional and management problems. Recently, the inadequate
counterpart funding of projects by the Federal and State Governments,
resulting from lower oil revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The
Federal Government, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is
now carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying
problems early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has taken a
series of measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing
and new projects (para. 18). These efforts are showing results.



PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR
Introduction
22.       The Federal Government owns and operates parastatals in all
transport modes. These range from larger enterprises such as the Nigerian
Railway Corporation (NRC), with Federal Government loan and equity
investments in excess of N1.2 billion, the Nigeria Airports Authority (NAA)
with Federal investment in excess of N1.3 billion, and the Nigerian Ports
Authority (NPA) with Federal investment in excess of N0.8 billion, to
smaller enterprises like the Central Water Transportation. The three
largest transport enterprises (NRC, NAA, and NPA) account for almost 15
percent of total Federal Government loans, equity and subsidies to some 100
commercial parastatals. Comprehensive up-to-date financial accounts are
not available for all the transport enterprises (available data is given in
Annex IV), but all incur operating losses. NPA and NRC incur the largest
annual deficits, amounting to approximately N 100 million each in recent
years.
23.       The Federal Government has clearly indicated its intentions
towards policy reform in parastatals in the 1986 Federal Budget (para. 44).
These objectives call for: (a) significant reductions in budgetary
transfers in the case of commercially orientated parastatals;
(b) generation of more internal revenues; and (c) in some cases,
privatization or liquidation. However, the specific steps needed to
achieve these objectives, together with a realistic timetable, have yet to
be worked out. For transport parastatals, the proposed project is designed
to help in this regard.
Sector Administration, Planning and Coordination
24.       The Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation (FMTA) is
responsible for all federal transport matters other than the federal
highway system (29,000 km), which is the responsibility of the Highways
Division of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH). FMTA's
responsibilities include the formulation of transport policy, supervision
of the federal transport parastatals, and the provision of infrastructure
and services not provided by FMWH or the parastatals themselves (e.g. en
route air navigation and communications systems, river ports and river
dredging). Through its National Transport Coordination Department, FMTA is
responsible for planning and coordinating investment and operations in all
transport modes. However, its influence in the road subsector is
negligible, because FMWH is a more powerful Ministry with a larger budget
and because road transport regulations are a state government
responsibility. Even for matters within its own jurisdiction, such as
capital restructuring and financial objectives for its parastatals,
economic assessment of its own and its parastatals investment programs,
FMTA has not been very effective. This is partly because of lack of
government interest in these issues in the past, and partly because of
inadequate professional staff. With the recent much tighter constraints on
government spending, there is now more interest at both FMTA and the
Feder;-] Ministry of Finance, and the proposed project would provide



- 9 -
technical assistance to work with FMTA and parastatal staff in addressing
the issues.
Road Transport
25.       Road transport accounts for the bulk of Nigeria's domestic
transport. There is freedom of entry to the industry, and rates and fares
are generally market-determined. Safety and axle load regulations are
poorly enforced. Road users benefit from an active highway investment
program (US$8 billion over the past decade), to which they have just
started to make a significant contribution resulting from the doubling of
domestic fuel prices in January 1986. The principal issues in the road
subsector are therefore the protection of the existing network through road
strengthening and maintenance, combined with more effective enforcement of
axle load and safety regulations, and improved cost recovery from users.
These issues are being addressed under the ongoing Bank-assisted Sixth
Highway Project and a proposed Seventh Highway Project.
26.       Except for a few large specialized firms working on long-term
haulage contracts for products requiring special vehicles (such as
petroleum, refrigerated goods, steel and construction equipment), the road
transport industry is characterized by diffusion of ownership and
relatively small firm size. The industry is predominantly privately owned.
However, a number of state governments have set up state-owned transport
services (both bus and truck), and in 1976 the Federal Government
established the National Freight Corporation (NFC) primarily to expedite
the flow of government agency goods from Lagos to up-country destinations,
as part of port decongestion efforts. This original raison d'etre has
disappeared, and NFC is facing serious managerial, financial, and
operational problems. Typically, one-third to one-half of its fleet of
500 trucks is inoperative at any time, and trucks available for service are
used at only 60 percent of their capacity. The proposed project includes a
study of future options for NFC, including possible privatization or
liquidation.
Rail Transport
27.       Despite the substantial growth in the Nigerian economy over the
past 20 years, the operating and financial performance of NRC has declined
fairly consistently, except for a brief period between 1979 and 1981.
While road transport has increased approximately five-fold since the
mid-sixties, rail traffic has declined by almost one-third. This poor
traffic performance is reflected in NRC's financial results: the working
ratio (working expenses divided by revenues) has deteriorated from around
90 percent in the mid-sixties to 230-240 percent in 1983 and 1984.
28.       Several factors have contributed to this poor performance.
Commodity exports, which accounted for almost 40 percent of rail freight in
the sixties, have virtually ceased. In addition, the competitive position
of road transport has been greatly strengthened by substantial investment
in roads (para. 25) and vehicles. Nevertheless, in view of the general
growth of the Nigerian economy, rail should have been able to overcome
these factors and at least maintain the sixties' levels of freight traffic



- 10 -
and financial performance. The principal explanation for rail's loss of
traffic has been its own poor operating performance. This is primarily
attributable to poor management, inadequate foreign exchange for spare
parts, a shortage of qualified technical staff, and surplus unskilled
staff, leading to an excessive payroll and lack of funds for vital non-wage
expenditures. The importance of these factors can be judged by NRC's
experience between mid-1979 and the end of 1981. During this period, which
coincided with strong growth in the Nigerian economy, NRC was managed by a
large expatriate team (36 managers and 390 technical staff) which had
access to N 44 million annually (of which more than half was in foreign
exchange) for stores procurement compared with N 7 million annually (of
which hardly any was in foreign exchange) for the immediately preceding
years. With these resources, the management team was able to double
workshop output and rolling stock availability, significantly improve
communications and control systems, and carry out essential but low cost
spot improvements to the track. With the consequent improvements in
service, they were able to help double freight traffic by the end of their
contract and significantly increase passenger traffic. The improvement in
financial results (from a working ratio of 230 to 200) was not commensurate
with the increased traffic and earnings, because of a large increase in
working expenses (largely attributable to increasing the total staff by
5,000, and more than tripling the supervisory staff). Nevertheless, the
experience indicated that there is a significant latent demand for reliable
rail service, and that this demand can be effectively served, at least in
physical terms (the economic and financial implications are discussed in
para. 30), by a committed management with adequate resources (in
particular, foreign exchange for spare parts and competent workshop
supervision).
29.       Since NRC was returned to local management in early 1982, the
financial results, after improving in 1982, have deteriorated further, due
to a 25 percent decline in freight revenues since 1981. (Tariffs have
remained unchanged throughout this period). To some extent, this reflects
the general decline in the Nigerian economy (e.g. container imports, an
important source of rail traffic, halved between 1981 and 1984). But it is
also clear that NRC lacks the capacity to haul available traffic: the
number of locomotives available for service has declined from 170 in late
1981 to 75 in recent months, and the number of freight trains awaiting
locomotives has increased from 9 per day in November 1984 to 26 per dav in
May 1985. (For other recent operational data see Annex V.) This situation
is largely attributable to import limitations on spare parts and
lubricants; NRC has not received any imported spare parts since mid-1982
and the availability of locally supplied spare parts has also been reduced
due to lack if imported materials and machine parts. However, poor
supervision in the workshops and shortage of skilled labor have also
adversely affected capacity.
30.       In spite of the above, there is an economic role for the
railways. There are significant movements of commodities such as
fertilizer, cement, iron and steel, unassembled vehicle kits, and
containerized imports over distances of 400 km, where rail's line haul
economic cost should be significantly lower than road's, perhaps half.
Rail freight rates are generally pitched at about this level but, as is



- 11 -
clear from NRC's financial results, at the moment this is not compatible
with full cost recovery. The railway's cost structure is overinflated,
largely because of an excessive labor force. Despite recent staff
reductions of 6,000 or 15 percent, the number of employees has more than
doubled since the mid-sixties, while traffic has declined by almost a
third. NRC has more than twice as many staff per traffic unit as, for
example, Cameroon Railways. In addition to further reducing its labor
force, NRC needs to focus its resources on the markets where it has a
comparative advantage over road. At the moment, it operates too many
uneconomic stations, branch lines and services. At the same time, NRC
needs to improve its revenue collecting system and cost controls; its
ability to do this however is seriously hampered by the lack of up-to-date
financial information; annual accounts are currently two years out-of-date
and basic accounting records are incomplete. In an effort to bring its
accounts and accounting records up-to-date, and comply with the
Government's directive that accounts for 1985 must be produced by
June 30, 1986, NRC has engaged a local firm of qualified accountants. In
summary, NRC can be made economically and financially viable but, as
detailed in Annex VI, this requires a combination of increased traffic,
higher tariffs, and considerable rationalization of the cost structure.
The proposed project is designed to promote these changes (para. 55).
Sea Ports and Shipping
31.       The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), established as a public
corporation in 1954, administers all public sea ports in Nigeria. There
are four main complexes: Lagos (Apapa and Tin Can Island), Rivers (Port
Harcourt and Onne), Delta (Burutu, Koko, Warri and, until recently,
Sapele), and Calabar. As a result of an impressive construction program
between 1975 and 1980, port capacity was more than doubled and is adequate,
especially in view of the downturn in traffic since 1982. (Cargo through-
put in 1984 was only two-thirds of that in the peak years of 1981 and
1982). More than 60 percent of the total traffic passes through the Lagos
Ports (mostly Apapa) with most of the balance being evenly distributed
between Rivers and Delta (mostly Warri); Calabar has only 1 percent of the
national total.
32.       NPA suffers from the same broad institutional problems as NRC,
but generally to a lesser degree. Annual and monthly accounts are out of
date, although NPA has made significant progress over the past 12 months in
redressing the backlog. The latest (unaudited) accounts, for 1983, show a
steadily deteriorating financial situation since 1978 (Annex IV) and, with
the downturn in traffic in 1984 and no significant cost or revenue changes,
the financial results will have deteriorated further.
33.       While the fall in traffic in 1983 and 1984 has obviously
exacerbated the problem, NPA's results were deteriorating before then,
despite peak traffic and revenues in 1981 and 1982. This was due primarily
to bringing into service the new ports of Calabar, Sapele and Warri, which
vastly increased -redging, workshop, personnel, administrative and
supervision costs, without any corresponding increase in revenues. Calabar
and Sapele together account for only 3 percent of NPA's total cargo
traffic. To improve the situation, NPA has in the past twelve months



- 12 -
reduced staff by 6,000 or 20 percent (though staff is still excessive),
closed Sapele Port to commercial operations (by passing it to the navy) and
has just obtained Government approval for a 15 percent tariff increase.
This latest increase brings NPA's tariffs to about US$14 per ton,
comparable to port charges in surrounding countries. Further efforts at
improving NPA's financial results therefore need to focus largely on
increasing productivity (see Annex VII for recent operational data) and
reducing costs. To this end, NPA has requested assistance under the
proposed project to: (a) improve its workshop and stores operations (only
20 percent of equipment at Apapa, the largest port, is available for use);
(b) assess manpower and training requirements; and (c) introduce a new
management information system which would allow NPA to (i) identify cost
and revenue trends earlier and (ii) define financial and operational
targets, including possibly a basis for receiving compensation for ports
developed at Government request for regional development rather than
traffic reasons. Together with measures already taken, these actions
should enable NPA to attain within 3 years an operating ratio akin to that
of 1980 or 1981, which would be a satisfactory medium-term target.
34.       Port operations in Nigeria are frequently inefficient: for
example, the average time required for a container to clear port is
25 days, compared with a feasible 15-20 days in West African conditions.
These delays are by no means entirely attributable to NPA: Gover nent
import regulations, trade financing and documentation procedures, and
customs inspection procedures, all play a role. In an attempt to improve
the situation, the Government has established a committee to recommend
solutions to expedite port clearances.
35.       The Nigerian National Shipping Line Limited (NNSL), incorporated
in 1959 and wholly Government-owned since 1961, operates a fleet of
20 Combi/General Cargo Vessels (i.e., with some capacity for containers) in
the 12,000-16,000 DWT range, all but one of which have been in service for
only six years. NNSL operates primarily internationally, and accounts for
about 6 percent of total liner capacity on the North Europe to West Africa
routes. NNSL's financial results have been unsatisfactory, and its future
role needs to be examined in the context of broader policy considerations
(such as possible regional cooperation) to obtain a better directional
balance of loadings, alternative ways of pursuing the UNCTAD objective of
carrying 40 percent of the nation's international trade, and the pros and
cons of existing shipping conference arrangements. The Government has
recently carried out a study of these issues. As a result, it decided that
(a) NNSL would Mi) be required to improve cost recovery from official cargo
and (ii) be strengthened to participate in the international market on more
competitive terms and that (b) the existing routes would be reviewed so as
to discontinue clearly unprofitable ones.
36.       The National Cargo Handling Company (NCHC), a wholly government-
owned company, is in financial difficulties. Its raison d'etre is not
c].ar, as there are a number of competent indigenous private cargo handling
companies. The Government has re-examined the rationale for this company,
and may decide to turn it over to private enterprise. The proposed project
provides for a study of how best to do this.



- 13 -
Aviation
37.       The Nigerian Airports Authority (NAA) wvs established as a
statutory corporation in 1976, with responsibility for the developmant,
manageMent and maintenance of Federal Government (i.e., major) airports
throughout the country. As a result of a very active developmant program
in the second half of the seventian, Nigeria has adequate basic airport
capacity, although auxiliary facilities and services, such am terminal
buildings, flight control, and navigation aids, require improvement. With
a staff of 6,800 (up 21 percent on 1981) to administer its 14 major
airports, NAA is overstaffed. Skill levels are generally low, however, and
training is required at all levels.
38.       NAm's financial results have steadily deteriorated from a profit
of N 421,000 In 1978-79 to a loss of N 48 million in 1982 (the latest year
for which auditad accounts are available), with an accumulated loss of
N 90 million for the five-year period. This accumlated loss occurred in
spite of Government subventions for operational expenses totalling
N 33.5 million.
39.       Nigeria Airways Limited (NAL), Incorporated in 1958 and wholly
Government-owned since 1963, operates both domestic and international
services. Until racently, NAL had a monopoly of domestic air pasenger
traffic, apart from small aircraft operated for private purposes. However,
since 1982 a few indigenous airlines have been permitted to operate
services on specific routes. These airlines account for a significant
proportion of traffic on these routes, but in aggregate carry only a small
proportion of the total domestic traffic. Recently the Govornmrnt has
decided to encourage competition between NAL ana the private airlines on
more domestic routes.
40.       The number of passengers carried by NAL increased from 120,000 in
1971 to 1.2 million in 1979 and 3 million per year in the last few years.
However, the airline's financial results have been unsatisfactory, with
annual operating losses of N 20 to N 30 million. As with other
parastatals, a major cause of the unsatisfactory financial results in over-
staffing: NAL has approximately twice the staff per traffic unit of Air
Afrique or Cameroon Airlines, and almost four times that of most European
airlines. In an effort to improve the financial results, staff has been
reduced by 1,500 or 15 percent In 1985. Furthermore, the Government has
recently decided to enhance NAL's maintenance efficiency by the provision
of critical maintenance facilities and spare parts.
Inland Waterways
41.       There is a considerable volume of short-haul river traffic
(mostly own account) in the Delta area, largely servicing the oil wells.
Little use is made of the Niger-Benue river system for long-haul traffic,
partly because of inadequate water levels during the dry season (December
to June). The Inland Waterways Division of the FMTA has commissioned
studies of how to beat improve year-round navigability of the lower
500-600 km, and to prepare a long-term master plan from Baro to Warri and
Port Harcourt. While it is possible to identify some freight traffic



- 14 -
well-suited to river transport, the river improvement works would require
substantial outlays, and the economics of the scheme need to be carefully
* assessed. In the present situation, however, the Government rightly
attaches a low priority to costly river improvements.
42.       The Central Water Transportation Company (CWTC), incorporated in
1971 and fully government-owned, has a fleet of 4 pusher tugs and 30 x 500
DWT barges.  It is negotiating to carry imported coal and iron for the
Ajaokuta Steel Mill, which would require a further 16 tugs and 50 barges.
However, before expanding CWTC, the Government should, in light of its
proposed review of the raison d'etre for the Ajaokuta Steel Mill, reassess
the objectives and future prospects of CWTC, and whether it should be
privatized. The proposed project provides for such a study.
Government's Policy on Parastatal Reform
43.       In late 1984, the Federal Government appointed a Study Group "to
examine in all its ramifications the factors responsible for the
inefficiency of parastatals." The Study Group investigated eight
parastatals, including NAA, NAL, NNSL, NPA and NRC, all the subject of the
proposed project. The Study Group delivered its report to the Government
in November 1984. The main recommendations are:
(a)   the functions and objectives of parastatals (such as those
in the transport sector) need to be more clearly defined so
that their basic commercial orientation is unambiguous.
Where social and political objectives conflict with the
economic ones and the former prevail, the Government should
compensate the enterprise for any losses therefrom;
(b)   operational and financial targets should be set for each
parastatal, and sanctions prescribed for not meeting them;
(c)   the enterprises need capital restructuring, as a prelude to
putting their future financing on a more commercial basis;
(d)   parastatals should be directed to re-organize their
accounting and other data collecting systems;
(e)   these enterprises should be granted more autonomy, and
there should be more decentralization of decision-making
within them; and
(f)   all parastatals should undertake a comprehensive staff
audit and prepare comprehensive work schedules for all
employees with a view to:
(i) ascertaining precisely the number, grade, skill,
salaries and locations of staff members, including
casual labor;
(ii) reducing overstaffing; and



- 15 -
(iii) evolving improved incentive and training schemes to
motivate the required staff.
44.       Although the Government's efforts thus far at coming to grips
with the problems of parastatals has not yet resulted in sweeping reform,
several recent steps demonstrate the GoverDment's clear intention to make
enterprises operate more efficiently. Examples of this are compulsory
staff reductions, directives to eliminate accounting arrears, and the
approval of tariff increases. Measures already taken by NPA and NRC in
staff reductions and the elimination of accounting arreara are mentioned
earlier in paras. 30 and 33. In addition, some parastatals (in the
agriculture sector for example) have been privacized and some Government
banks have had their capital structure rationalized.  More recently the
Read of State has decided (i) to reduce by 50 percent Government subsidies
to parastatals; (ii) to require annual reports within six months of the end
of each fiscal year as well as quarterly reports; and (iii) to put the
emphasis on repair, maintenance and rehabilitation of all national fixed
assets rather than on their mere replacement. Major reforms, however, seem
slow largely because some of them have major social and political
consequences. In addition, the Government's slow pace of implementing
change may reflect an inherent lack of confidence in the enterprises'
ability to handle greater autonomy, especially in financial matters. To
some extent, too, many of the recommendations (i.e. capital restructuring,
financial targets, and compensation for non-commercial obligations) require
detailed work before they can be implemented.
45.       In this context, the strategy being followed under the proposed
transport parastatal project is to support the Government's recent efforts
at commercializing certain parastatal operations and to lay the basis for
granting these enterprises greater autonomy, securing more accountability
for performance, and developing their institutional capacities. The
proposed project focuses on (a) developing basic management tools and
decision-making systems within two key enterprises, and (b) assisting the
Government to develop a coherent strategy for the other transport
parastatals. More fundamental reforms that apply equally to all parastatal
enterprises, such as contract and procurement controls, board
responsibilities and composition, salary levels and recruitment/retention
practices, are longer-term objectives of a comprehensive parastatal reform
program being pursued, in parallel to this project, through the bank's
policy dialogue, sector work and technical assistance support to the
Government.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
46.       Past Bank Group support to the Nigerian transport sector has
totalled US$314 million and has been predominantly for highways
(65 percent). Assistance to the railways was provided in 1958 (Loan
193-UNI, US$28 million) and in 1970 as part of a Transport Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 694-UNI, U02,5 million). The latter project provided US$11
million for railways, mostly for wagons, spares and track material and
equipment. Implementation was delayed by over four years due to complete
revision of the list of goods twice during the first two years of the
project (the project was hurriedly appraised and received Board approval



- 16 -
within two months of the Government's request), slow procurement
procedures, inadequate performance of NRC workshops, and lack of consulting
services to assist NRC.
47.       There have been two port projects (Loan 326-UNI, US$13.5 million,
1963 and Loan 922-UNI, US$55 million, 1973), primarily for the development
of Apapa Port. The more recent project included construction of
1,OOO.rmeters of deep-water container berths, procurement of container
handling*,equipment, and technical assistance in management and accounting.
The civil *orks and equipment components were completed on schedule, with
an eight percent cost overrun. The technical assistance also generally
achieved its objectives of improving data processing, revaluing assets, and
designing a cost accounting system. However, with the exception of asset
revaluation, which has recently been updated satisfactorily by NPA
officers, these improvements have not been sustained primarily due to the
lack of qualified staff. The principal lessons from this experience have
been incorporated in the design of the proposed project (para. 56).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       Conoiderable sector work over the past few years (highway sector
study in 1980, port and rail sector studies in 1983, an overview of
transport investment priorities in 1983 and a transport strategy paper in
1984) identified the key issues which need to be addressed by the
Government. Particular amongst these was the need to improve the overall
efficiency of Nigeria's transport parastatals.
49.       In April 1984 the Nigerian Government requested The World Bank's
assistance for this purpose. A mission visited Lagos in June 1984, at
which time the proposed project was initially identified. The appraisal
mission took place in May 1985 and negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. from December 16 to 19, 1985. Supplementary data on the proposed
project are provided in Annex III.
Rationale for Bank Support
50.       Transport parastatals are significant in terms of the Governxent
investment they represent, (N 4 billion in accumulated Government
transfers), the recurring annual subventions (in excess of N 250 million)
required to cover persistently large operating dekicits, and the cumulative
impact of their ineffectiveness and inefficiency on cost structures
throughout the economy. The Government is committed to improving
parastatal performance as part of its program to introduce more discipline
in public expenditure, and obtain better utilization of existing assets.
As is clear from the present operating results of transport parastatals
(Annex IV) and the magnitude of reform needed (para. 44), this will be a
major task, requiring considerable time and external assistance to
complete. By virtue of its recent sector work, the Bank is well placed to
help the Government initiate this process of reform.



- 17 -
Project Objectives
51.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)   lay the foundations for reform of transport parastatals by
Improving accountability, specifying financial and opera-
tional objectives, preparing staff rationalization plans
and examining the future roles of several enterprises; and
(b)   improve the efficiency with which the two largest transport
parastatals, NPA and NRC, utilize their existing
facilities.
Project Description
52.       The proposed project consists of separate components for FMTA,
NPA and NRC. The key features of these components are described below.
53.      FITA:  This component provides for 84 man-months of technical
assistant and consulting services to assist FMTA to: (a) study the future
roles and options (including possible privatization or liquidation) of
transport parastatals, such as the National Freight Company, the National
Cargo Handling Company, and the Central Water Transport Company (12 man-
months); (b) develop a domestic aviation policy which clarifies the
respective roles of Nigeria Airways and private airlines (12 man-months);
(c) redefine financial and operational objectives for transport parastatals
(12 man-months); (d) assess the feasibility of a multi-modal transport
system to enable the Government to develop transport strategies for better
inter-modal coordination and for increasing the total transport sector
efficiency (12 man-months); and (e) coordinate project implementation
(36 man-months). The Government has agreed to discuss the conclusions of
these studies with the Bank, with the objective of agreeing on an Action
Plan for Reform of Transport Parastatals. The Government has also agreed
to the timetable for the completion of the studies, and the preparation of
the Action Plan included within: the Project Implementation Schedule
(Annex VIII). In addition, this component includes a lump sum for
fellowships for providing management training to the senior officials of
FMTA, NPA and NRC in appropriate institutions abroad and in NITT in
Nigeria.
54.       NPA: Technical assistance (150 man-months) would be provided to
(i) improve NPA's Lagos workshops (54 man-months); (ii) improve NPA's
manpower planning and development by identifying areas of surplus and
inadequate staff, and improving training programs so that they better serve
the requirements of a modern port authority (36 man-months); (iii) design
and implement a new management information system to produce more succinct
and timely reports than the present system, and define financial and
operational targets (24 man-months); aind (iv) assist NPA to rationalize its
data processing activities, through a combination of reactivating existing
mainframe applications where appropriate, completing some applications
under development, introducing microcomputers and accessories, and if
necessary disposing of some existing mainframe equipment (36 man-months).
An organigram of NPA showing the reporting relationships of consultants is



- 18 -
included as Annex IX. In support of this technical assistance, the proposed
project would finance spare parts; equipment for workshops and training
schools; and microcomputers, including accessories and software. The
technical assistance would identify the necessary parts and equipment in
detail, and supervise their procurement and installation. With the
assistance provided under the project, including a supervised scrapping
program for obsolete equipment, it should be possible to increase average
equipment availability rates from their present level of 20 percent to at
least 60 percent in about three years, which is adequate for traffic levels
expected until completion of the project.
55.       NRC:  Technical assistance (204 man-months) would be provided to:
(i) improve locomotive workshops and stores management (69 man-months);
(ii) design and implement new internal control, accounting, and management
information systems (84 man-months); (iii) carry out revenue/cost studies,
identify chronically uneconomic operations and develop a plan of action for
dealing with them, including specifying a basis for compensating NRC for
social obligations (12 man-months); (iv) carry out manpower studies to
idenztify areas of surplus and deficient staff and prepare programs for
staff reduction and training (12 man-months); (v) prepare programs, which
might be supported under a future project, to improve NRC's operations
(e.g., criticcl track renewals, wagon spares, signalling) (12 man-months)
and (vi) train trainers to upgrade their pedagogic abilities and carry out
redeployment training to prepare for the transfer of staff from the surplus
categories to the shortage categories (15 man-months). The Management
Information System (MIS) for NRC, although designed to ultimately provide
all levels of management with information on areas of performance for which
they are responsible, will initially be limited to the timely provision to
senior management of financial data (stemming from the implementation of
proper accounting records) and to key operational data. As the data
collecting and processing systems develop and prove themselves, so the MIS
will evolve to provide more detailed information to wider levels of
management. An organigram of NRC, showing the reporting relationship of
consultants, is included as Annex X. In support of this technical
assistance, the proposed project provides for sufficient spare parts to
increase the mainline locomotives available for service from the current
level of 75 to 96, which should be adequate for the traffic levels likely
to prevail over the r'-xt five years. A no-break power supply system would
be supplied for NRC's mainframe computer facilities, as well as
microcomputers, peripherals, and software needed to implement improved
financial and management information systems. The technical assistance
will identify i2 detail the necessary parts and equipment, and supervise
its procurement and installation.
56.       The principal lessons from past p:.oject experience (paras. 46-47)
have been incorporated in the design of this project. The appropriate
sources for equipment, and spare parts would be specifically identified by
experts prior to project start-up. Over 120 man-months of technical
assistance, as well as workshop equipment, are provided to improve workshop
output and stores procedures. Financing of spare parts for NRC would be
tranched, and subject to attainment of workshop output targets. Provision
is made for training equipment, and 45 man-months of technical assistance
specifically for training in the use of equipment and systems, in an effort



- 19 -
to sustain the technical, accounting and information system improvements to
be introduced under the proposed project. Improvements in data processing
would be based to the maximum possible extent on microcomputers and
ready-made software, to minimize the requirements for skilled manpower
(e.g., programmers) and controlled environments.
Status of Project Preparation and Implementation
57.       Ft!TA, NPA and NRC would be responsible for implementing their
respective components, and a Project Coordinator would be appointed in FMTA
to coordinate overall project implementation and manage the substantial
technical assistance component. The Project Coordinator will report
directly to the Permanent Secretary FMTA; his terms of reference (Annex XI)
have been agreed with FMTA, NPA and NRC. Appointment of the Project
Coordinator will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
58.       Among measures already taken by the Government to accelerate
project implementation are the appointment of a Managing Director (Chief
Executive) to NRC (this was a condition of negotiations as the position had
been vacant for 3 years) and the approval of tariff increases for NPA and
NRC. NRC has appointed an accounting firm to help bring its annual
accounts up-to-date.
59.       To minimize delays in the implementation of its Management
Inforadtion System, NPA has engaged experts to design the system in detail
before loan effectiveness. During the loan negotiations, retroactive
financing has been agreed for this purpose (para. 71).
60.       To minimize delays in procuring spare parts and equipment:
(a)   NRC agreed to engage a senior locomotive expert for
3 mouths to inspect disabled locomotives, identify spare
parts requirements in detail, and prepare specifications
for bidding; and
(b)   NPA agreed to appoint experts for approximately two months
each to assess spare parts, workshop and technical training
needs in detail.
Completion of these assignments would be part of the conditions of
disbursement of funds for spare parts and equipment (para. 70).
61.       Terms of reference for each of the assignments listed in
paras. 59 and 60 have already been agreed between the proj;ect units and the
Bank. Terms of reference for all the key consultants' pos,ts have been
agreed. The Project Implementation Plan (Annex VIII) has also been agreed.
The project is expected to be completed by mid 1991.
Project Costs and Financing
62.       The total cost of the proposed project net of t!axes is estimated
at US$30.3 million with a foreign exchange component of US$25.6 million.
Estimated costs of each project component are given in the project summary,



- 20 -
with details provided in Annex XII. Technical assistance accounts for
US$7.1 million (31 percent of total costs), spare parts for US$13.5 million
(58 percent) and workshop, computer and training equipment for US$2.5
million (11 percent). Maximum possible use will be made of local technical
assistance and consultants, and it is expected that over one third of the
technical assistance will be provided from local sources. Overall,
contingencies amount to 7 percent for physical and 24 percent for price,
for a total of 31 percent of base costs which are expressed in end-1985
prices. Physical contingencies are based on 10 percent for technical
assistance and consulting services, and 5 percent for spare parts and
equipment. Price contingencies for foreign costs are estimated at 7
percent in 1986 and 1987, 7.5 percent in 1988, 7.7 percent in 1989 and 7.6
percent in 1990. Price contingencies for local costs are estimated at 22
percent in 1986, 17 percent in 1987, 16 percent in 1988, 15 percent in
1989, and 14 percent in 1990.
63.       The proposed project is to be financed by an IBRD loan of
US$20.9 million covering 69 percent of total project costs, net of taxes.
FMTA, NPA and NRC would meet the remaining costs of their respective
components, estimated at about US$0.9 million, US$2.7 million and
US$5.8 million equivalent respectively, for a total Government/enterprise
contribution of about US$9.4 million. or 31 percent.
64.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart
funding, assurances have been obtained that:
(a)   as a condition of loan effectiveness, project accounts
would be opened for NPA and NRC each with an initial
deposit in the borrower's currency equivalent to
US$500,000;
(b)   thereafter, NPA and NRC would pay into their respective
accounts quarterly and in advance, the estimated
counterpart funding needed for project execution;
(c)   no later than 26 months after loan effectiveness, NPA would
have completed financing its share of the spare parts
component (up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million);
(d)   no later than 26 months after loan effectiveness, NRC would
have completed financing its share of the spare parts
component up to an aggregate amount of US$3.5 million; and
(e)   the 1987 and 1988 budget allocations to FMTA would be
adequate to provide for the counterpart funding of the FMTA
component.
On-lending Arrangements for the Bank Loan
65.       FMGN will on-lend to NPA and NRC those portions of the Bank loan
corresponding to their respective components. This on-lending provides for
a fifteen year repayment period (which is commensurate with the types of
goods and services being financed) including five years grace, at the same
variable rate of interest as the Bank loan. The foreign exchange risk for



- 21 -
this on- lending would be borne by NPA and NRC. Signature of the two
on-lending agreements (between FMGN and the two enterprises) would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Reporting and Auditing
66.       FMTA, with the assistance of the Project Coordinator, would
submit quarterly reports to the Bank on project expenditures and progress,
and a final report on the Implementation and experience of the project
within six months of the loan closing date. The accounts of NPA and NRC,
and the project accounts (including those for the revolving funds) will be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The financial
statements and audit reports would be required to be submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of the accounting period to which
they relate.
Financial Performance
67.       NPA, NRC and the other transport parastatals require cost
reductions and increased revenues in order to move towards a situation
where they will be financially self-sufficient, able to service their debts
and contribute to future investments. The proposed project is designed to
lay the foundation for improved cost recovery by generating revenue from
increased equipment utilization, increasing awareness of operating and
financial performance, and accountability for such performance, identifying
opportunities for cost reduction (excess staff, uneconomic services) and
generally improving productivity (through training and selective
computerization). As noted in para. 33, these measures, combined with a
recently approved 15 percent tariff increase, should significantly improve
NPA's financial results. More concerted action will be required in respect
of NRC, whose financial situation is much worse. Disbursement of the
second phase of funds (US$3.3 million) for NRC spare parts would therefore
be subject to NRC improving its working ratio, as well as its locomotive
availability and utilization rates, to attain agreed targets (Annexes III
and V). Performance targets concerning cargo handling equipment
availability and working ratio have been agreed with NPA (Annex VII).
Procurement
68.       2rocurement of goods and services to be financed by the proposed
Bank loan would be in accordance with Bank guidelines. For purchases of
minor spare parts and computer and accessories ccsting less than US$60,000,
implementing agencies will be permitted to shop internationally or locally.
following receipt of three quotations, subject to a ceiling of US$800,000
for the aggregate value of such purchases by each agency. Purchases of
major spare parts, which are usually equipment-specific, are generally done
on a proprietary basis from the original manufacturer. However, for
certain equipment, particularly the locomotives of North American origin
which constitute about 90 percent of the fleet identified for
rehabilitation under this project, spare parts are manufactured by several
specialist manufacturers and therefore such purchases would be amenable to
limited international bidding (LIB). In all such cases, the bidding would
be made as broadly-based as possible. Other non-specific items
individually exceeding US$60,000 in value would be procured through



- 22 -
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). However, the aggregate value of
all ICB purchases is not expected to exceed 10 per cent of the total
purchases of spare parts and equipment. All bidding documents for bids
over US$100,000 will be subject to Bank's prior review. This would cover
over 90 percent of all ICB and LIB tenders. Smaller contracts would be
subject to selective post-award review. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Annex XIII.
Disbursements
69.       The proposed loan of US$20.9 million would be disbursed during
the period FY87-92. The spare parts requirements would be packaged for
concurrent Bank and enterprise financing of 100 percent of expenditures of
their respective packages; overall, this would result in 65 percent Bank
and 35 percent enterprise financing. Loan proceeds would cover 100 percent
of foreign expenditures on computers, workshop and training equipment.
Disbursements for consultancy services, would be made at the rate of
100 percent of foreign cost or 40 percent of local costs, to be determined
on a case by case basis. On this basis, total disbursements excluding
contingencies are estimated at US$8.8 million against sparc parts,
US$2.5 million against computers, workshop and training equipment, and
US$4.7 million against consultant services. Disbursements would be made
against full documentation with the exception of small contracts of less
than US$10,000 equivalent, where disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditures; amounts so withdrawn would be subject to
standard special auditing requirements applied to statement of
expenditures. FMTA, NPA and NRC would each establish a special account (in
foreign currency) to facilitate the payment of project related expenditures
eligible for reimbursement from the proceeds of the Bank loan. Out of the
loan proceeds, an initial deposit would be paid into the three special
accounts (US*150,000 for FMTA and US$500,000 each for NPA and NRC) and
replenishment of these accounts would be subject to receipt of acceptable
documentation to substantiate utilization of amounts advanced.
Disbursements of funds for spare parts and equipment would be subject to
NRC and NPA completing certain key actions mentioned in para. 70.
70.       The disbursements of funds for spare parts and equipment for NPA
would be subject to: (i) compilation by short-term technical assistance of
a shopping list of spare parts and equipment satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) appointment of long-term technical assistance to the workshops. The
disbursement of funds for spare parts for NRC would be made in two phases
of equal amount. Disbursement for equipment and the first phase of spares
would be subject to: (i) detailed identification of the required spare
parts and equipment by short-term experts satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) appointment of long-term technical assistance to the locomotive
workshops; and (iii) submission to the Bank of a satisfactorily audited
balance sheet as at December 31, 1985. The second phase of spares would be
disbursed subject to NRC: (i) attaining specified targets for locomotive
availability and utilization (Annex V); (ii) achieving a working ratio of
180 percent for the quarter ending December 31, 1987; and (iii) providing
evidence of actual financing of spare parts to the equivalent of
US$1.75 million in parallel with the first phase of Bank disbursement.
Disbursement categories for the Bank loan are shown in Annex XIV.



- 23 -
71.       Provision has been made to allow retroactive financing of up to
US$2.0 million for expenses incurred after October 1, 1985 in respect of
(i) technical assistance to identify spare parts, workshop and technical
training equipment needs in detail, and to design a management information
system for NPA; and (ii) for emergency spare parts procured according to
the Bank's guidelines and in accordance with experts' assessment
(para. 60). The first of these technical assistance contracts was signed
in October 1985.
Benefits and Risks
72.       By improving the operations and procedures of two major transport
parastatals (NPA and NRC), by providing the Government with the means to
monitor the performance of these parastatals more effectively than in the
past, and by assisting the Government to review the role and performance of
transport parastatals more generally, the proposed project should promote
increased efficiency in the sector, lay the groundwork, including a
timetable, for subsequent reform, and ultimately reduce the need for
government subsidies and for its direct day-to-day involvement in the
running of these key transport parastatals.
73.       The spare parts and equipment components entail little risk,
apart from possible delays flowing from cumbersome Government procurement
procedures and shortage of counterpart funds. The Bank has an ongoing
dialogue with the Government on this subject, and will seek to minimize
procurement delays by ensuring that all necessary documentation is
processed in a timely fashion. The Project Coordinator, to be employed
under the project, will be inter alis charged with expediting procurement.
The creation of the local currency project accounts and foreign exchange
special accounts (paras. 64 and 69) is designed to minimize problems with
counterpart funds, and to expedite disbursements under the Bank loan
without requiring FMTA, NPA or NRC to prefinance in scarce foreign
exchange.
74.       The more serious risks lie in the project's institutional .eform
and strengthening components, which require strong commitment from managers
in FMTA, NPA and NRC. The greater sense of accountability being introduced
under the proposed project via management information systems and
performance targets should help in this regard. However, this will need to
be reinforced by intensive Bank supervision.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 5, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-24 -
ANNE I
T ALK  i&                                     Page  I of 6
NIGERIA                - soS A INUICATS  DATA  S
NIGERIA                             UFENUCK GROUPS (USIGNTRD A93R) La
moth          MOSTNDw                  (NOST?im REUIETINATlb
lmlft      19m0&! iiSunuatk       anicA s. or swAn    P. Aica  a ND EASm
a         q (ous  SQ. nO
TOTAL                             923.8       923.8      923.8
AGRCILTURAL                       &7i.0       497.4       511.4
Cw P  CAPU  (u                         ..          ..       770.0             1063.8                   1134.9
(KILOCRAS Oa OIL EqUIVALUT)        20.0        35.0      143.0             531.5                     623.9
sewnM -N usa mNuWSTI
woruAru*mouaa (TaSaaS)  51598.0              4182.0    93442.0
URBAN POULATION (2 oF TOTAL)       13.1        16.4       22.0               32.0                     49.0
POPULATION rnoJSCEINs
PoPUTIoN iN TE  2000 CHILL)                            162.7
sTToham    POPMATION (ru.)                             532.0
PPne    N NaNmNma                                        2.0
rowLTUn DESaM
PER SQ. Rl.                      55.9        71.4      101.4               65.1                     37.8
PSM SQ. IJI. A11. LAND          109.6       133.0      176.4              124.8                   470.1
POPULATION ACE STRUCrURE (2)
0-14 IRS                        45.4        46.6       47.5               45.6                     43.5
15-64 YS                         52.2        50.9       49.9              51.5                     53.0
65 AMD  ISE                       2.3         2.3        2.4                2.7                      3.3
POPULATION CROWN RT CZ)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.5        2.7                2.9                      2.3
wa"                               4.7         4.7        4.9                5.1                      4.4
CRUDE 3IRR RATE (PMR TIHUS)        51.5        50.9       49.5               47.0                    40.0
CRUDE EATH EATSPU TalUS)           25.0        21.1       16.7               15.0                     31.5
CROSS  'RCTIN  fuR                  3.4         3.4        3.4                3.2                      2.8
A' .TO, ANNAL. (130O)             ..          7.6
USERS (tO?  1An1  WW              ..          ..         6.0               6.4                     21.4
DRE or FOOD Proo. MP  CP
(1969-71-100)                     100.0       102.0       82.0              62.9                     95.1
PER Capit SUPPLY oF
CALORIES (2 or RZQURDES)         66.0        81A.       94.0              9N.5                     118.2
P-unts (GRIAS PE DAY)            48.0        44.0       4I.0               55.4                    77a
OF UHIO  ANDIAL AS  PULSE       10.0        11.0       11.0 IC            16.5                    17.
CZIILD (AES 1-4) DSRA  RATE        37.4        28.6       17.0               16.6                    12.8
LINK WELr. AT DsIR  (CTE)          39.0       43.5        48.6              52.0                     57A
IPalAr? momr. RATE (PER TIOS)     163.5       140.5      113.0              106.8                    96.8
ACCESS TO SAM WATER (rPOP)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..               42.4                     67.2
URBaN                             ..          ..         ..               67.5                     93.
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               35.3                     45.8
ACCESS TO  rCUET  DXSPOVIL
CR OF POPULATION)
TOTAL.                            ..          ..         ..                28.9                    45.9
URI                               ..          ..         ..                57.7                    63.0
RURAL                             ,.          ..         ..               20.7                     26A
POPULATION PER PITSICXII        73710.0    24670.0    12550.0 /d          11791.7                  4331.0
POP. PE NURSWI PERSON            404. 0!.  5070.0       3010.0 7          2459A                     1445.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL B0
TOTAL                          3020.0 If  2220.0      1130.0 Id          981.1                    621A
OBAN                            430.0 7W    490.0      370.0  i          368.8                    545.0
RURAL                         25630.0 7   1390.0      5490.0            4371.9                   2511.3
ADMSSIOS PER NOSPrTAL ED            ..          .          ..               27.2                     25.7
AVERAGe SIZE Of HOUSENOD
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..47 A
AL                                ..          ..
AVERAG NO. OF PERSONS/00W
TOTAL
URBAN                             3.0         2.2 /h
aIR^                              ..          ..         .                  ..
PECEIAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                            S1.3         2.4 /hl
IaL                               ..          ..         .                  ..



-25 -                                       ANNEX I
TAILc3A                                       Page 2  of 6
NDCCRIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHeET
NIGERKA                             REFERENcc GROUPS (VECEoTED AVERAGES) /
mmOST                   (NMr R CZHST -  IATm ) fb
RECENT          MIDDLE tNCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
196ilb     19701k  ESYMA.T /b     AFRICA s. or SAMAaA   N. AFRICA & MID EAST
xuinca
ADJUSTED ENROLUENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  36.0       37.0        98.0 Id           95.7                     89.8
MALE                  46.0        47.0                        100.0                    103.7
FENALE                27.0        27.0                         83.2                     75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  4.0        4.0        16.0 id           17.3                     42.9
MALE                   6..0         .0        ..               25.0                     50.9
FENALZ                 1.0         3.0        ..               14.8                     34.6
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARS)         4.8        8.5         3.1 Id            5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TEACHEK RATIO
PRDXIM                           30.0       34.0         ..               41.1                     29.7
SERCDNDARY                       19.0       21.0         ..               25.5                     18.8
C-ON
PASSENGER CARSITHOOSAIM POP         0.6        0.9         1.4 It           20.8                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVETRSItUSAND POP         2.8       19.3        72.9             107.8                    175.9
nV RUCZE RSITHOUSAND POP            0.0        1.1         5.0              20.8                     51.2
NERSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INT S") CIRCDLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATON             5.5        4.8         5.6              18.4                     37.2
CINOM   ANNUAL AXTENDWCEICAPITA     ..         .           0.3 /d            0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TWOu)        217U8.0    25992.0    33544.0
FDEALE cPERCNuT)                 41.3       40.6        39.6              3682                     11.0
AGRrICLIURE (PERCENT)            71.0       82.0        54.0/1            54.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               10.0       14.0        19.0 I            18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERWZT)
TOTAL                            42.2       39.3        35.8              36.8                     26.2
MALE                             50.3       47.3        44.0              47.1                     46.2
FEMALE                           34.4       31.5        28.3              27.2                      5.8
ECONOMIC DRENDENCY RAIXO            1.1        1.2         1.4               1.3                      1.8
PERCENT OF PRIVATE DIMCO
RECEIVED T
HIIIHEST 5S OF tlOUISZHDS         .           ..
RIHIIST 20Z Or IIOUSER..L.D.
LOUESr 20% OF HOUSEODS            .           ..
LOWEST 4dOZ OF IWS                ......
ESTItL4ED ABSOLUTE POVERTYm m
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPIA)
DRUlI                             ..         ..        696.0             590.7                    226.3
RURAL                             ..         ..        341.0             275.3                    134.0
ESIIDLT RELAC POVZUrINCXi=
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UAN                               ..         ..        621.0             545.6                    431.5
RURAL                             ..         ..        207.0             201.1                    326.0
ESTIDUTED POP. BELW ABSOLUTE
POYERT INCME LEVEL (Z)
URBNM                             ..
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..                ..                      29.0
NO AVAILAE
NOT APPLICABLE
11 0 T C S
/a  The group averages for each i.d ator are popularton-welzced arltlmatc _amn.. Covrage of countriea
mong the Indictors depends on avlability of date and ls not uLiform.
/b  Unless otbenisme noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year bet_we  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; sd data for "Mot Rsesnt ZF.timt" between 1981 and 1983.
Ic  1977; Id 1979; /e 1962; If Includs nx-North Cuamroon under Iricith adainistration;  ,& 1976; /b 1972;
/1 L978TJlL 1980.9
JUNE. 198



-  26 -                                                  T
Page 3 of 6
DIFNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noes: Mthou  the da re drwn frn ous   ally judged the miea authoriadeand rdelible, it should also be noted that they ny not be internlionary
oipr e beuse or the ahck rtne edi dbdtin and comeps used by ifferent eauris in collecting w data Thedai are nonethek. uieful to
descuibe orders of magnitude, indiate teasde. and characteize ain major difference betwun coairime
The refdernce roups are (I) dte -s  euntry  uop ofd the subject country and (23 a county group with someh  higher avege income than the counry
group ofthe bject coumtry (extpt for 'Higb Income Oil Expc group where -Middle Income North Afric and Middl EEa- is chon bemuoe ofrner
socdo-cultural anities) In the reference grup da the avas are population whied arithmetic m   r each indicator and own nly when mjity
orthe counti ins group has data for tht indicator Since L coverae ofcountri auong the indictor depend on the aailability ofdaa and s not uniurm
motion must beetreised in rling aveags of one indico to anoeietr Thene averm are only uful in comparig the value or one indicator st  time among
the coutry and referenc groups.
AREA (thousad sq.knL)                                          Crude Sek  Rate (per thmasn-N Number of live birtbs in the year
Trl-Total surface ara comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crade Detht Rate (per theusasd)-Number or deaths in the year
Agricultasl-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanendty for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Grass Repeodactim Rate-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data                           wifl bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific iertiity rates; usually five-year averages ending
CNP PER CAPITA (USSGNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prics, cakulated by same conversion method as World     F        Pbnshang--eeptin. Ason' (tksatflAnnl nu
Rank Arias (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices underauspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     FamMy P       -lU-s   (pecent ef mmrtd mue) -The percen-
petroleum. natral gas and bydro-. nucler and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of chi'ldbearing age wbo are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Toal Populaton. Mid-dYear (thowsads)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
_Wm Po- uladn (pff_er  of ratetdJ-Ratio Of urban to total      IndexefFeedP cta*ionPerCaita (IM-967I=0lN- Indexcoifper
Urba  Poulaion  pereatof eteL-Raio  f uran  o ttal capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; diffrent definitions of urban areas may affnct compar-  exludes animal reed and seed for agriculture. Food comodities
ability of data amog countrie  1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary comnodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Pbpeeon ProectIns                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Popude;ion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded): they comprise cereas. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infonnation on  vegetables. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and supr beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these paranmters  on national avage producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genralized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            PEr Capita Supply of Clores (perMet ofrequiremeants- Comput-
Stahionary popuatdon-Is one in whicb age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not cbanged over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at repacement lcvd  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(nct reproduction rate= I). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sizc was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline or fcrtility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing I0 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household lcvel: 1961. 1970 and 19X2 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Sply of Prtein (granms per dal-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentun of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at rplae-  should be animal protein. These standards,are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward, 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PopuatDion D                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capita Protein Supply &rm Animal and Pus - Protein supply
Per sqltm. agricuturalln hu-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pules in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpulation Age Srctare (perent)-Children (0-14 years). work-   Cild(ages -4) DethRate (perrthousn)  Numberofdeathscof
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rare (percewr)-4oral--Annua1 growth rates or  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60.1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Pbpulion Growth Ate (percent)-Jr_an--Annual growth rates        We Expectarny at Sith (yrs)  Number of years a neshorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterms Or mortality for all peopk



-27-                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth wer to stay the s-n throughout its life;  PupNteacher Ratio - prbnary. and secndary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary lewls divided by numbm  of
how Menlty Rat (per tfhsawd)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the conesponding lvels.
before reaching one year of a per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960,1970 and 1983 datai                                CONSUMPTION
Ac i to S*  Wt (pe re, of PoIuU4                  m. an       Ihsue Ces (per dhwad ,euiutl)-Plassenger cars com-
red-Number of people (totaL urb  and rurml) with rasonable    prise motor cars seating les than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (inudes tread surface waters or   ancs, hearses and military vehices.
untreated but unmnated water such as that fronm protected     Raibl Recemr (per thousandpapepirdtku-All types of receivers
borehol. springs and santary weft) as percentages of thur respe-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban ar a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receiven in countries and in years when
located not mnore than ZOO rneters frnom a bouse may be  rre* *               * 
located not more than 200 meters frown a house.maybeconsred  registration of radio sets was in effect data for recent years may
as being within resonable access of that house. In  , -       not be comparable since most countries abolished Icensing.
reasonable accss would imply that the housewfe or members of the
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVReceivars (per sheLsad p_ pu-aTm)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetebing the family's water needs                         lo general public per thousand population: exdudes unlicensed TV
Acss to Exers Diesposl (pt ,                                 m receivers in countries and in years when registration orTV sets was
Accm to E=e Dnpwd (peem qf poubdon)--rosf. whan. in effect
a nwarL-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) served by
aecrete disposal as pertages of their respective populations.  Awspqw  CQcuhdeu (per thoumd poputo  -Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL witb or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper.t defined as a
without treatment. of human excrela and waste-water by water-  pcriodical publication devoted primarily to recording general newst
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sinmilar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Pepatia per fPhsidan-bPpulation divided by number of prac-    CJSE Anal Ateatee per Cqaa per Yew-Based on the
tising physiians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PJpahda. per Nusfin Person-npulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
.pdn- per Hoal &t-,o4 wfi, and rwd-Population                 Tord L        F     (tha iamfhi-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number or  duding arned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and privatc general and speciaiized    students. etc.. covering population o f all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femak (pear)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. indude health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Ag:icuhwr (percenfr-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nursc. midwife. etc.)    and fishing as pecentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patieDt accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical faciliti.                                          IndutrY (percnrDsr-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adhssien per Hospitl Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 date.
P.ricmdou Raretec       ta          andfimau.-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Arag Sa of Houehod (pas or p-hoseheld-ra  -uAn                as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
antred-A household consists of a group orindividuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on  LO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates relecting age-sex structure of the population. and
mnay not be included in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aeraen   Number of Perns per Ree--el. rban and rural-         Ecoueuic Depeandey Rtie-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTMON
Arentmage of Dwelings with Elerricity-roral. arba. ad rral-   Perenmte of Teel DOispesab  luceme (both ir cash ad kindt)
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house.
tagc of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsted Elmnt Ratdos                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmary school - toia. male and female--Gross total. male and  kvels. and should be interpreted with considerabie caution.
fimak enrollment of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Esuzaed Absolue FVert lacom  Levd (U5S per capiaey --rban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rwl-- Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estinsated RelWaive P lety Incm  Level (USS per eapire)--arba
education. gross enroliment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rul -Rural relative poverty income level is one-third o..f
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of th country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. male andfemale-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esmaed Poparwe Bolow Abselure Povery lncme Levl (per-
rnary instruction: provides general. vocational. or teacher training  ceatp-arbar ad rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually or 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrrolnent Ipercen of swrmndarr) - Vowtional institu-        Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technial industrial. or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Depiartment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 198S



-28 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATOIRS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984                     ANNUAL RA8E OF GROWTH (NO Constant Prices)
USS Nln      %             1975-80          1982           1983
GNP at Market Prices           73001      100.0             3.5            -2.3           -5.9
Gross Domestic Investment       9568       13.1             1.2           -23.9          -20.4
Gross National Saving          11384       15.6             1.2           -39.4           13.0
Current Account Balance         -321        -               -               -              -
Exports of Goods and nfs       12341       16.9             5.5           -23.7           -7.3
Imports of Goods and nfs       10527       14.4             6.3           -15.9          -24.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
Value Added           Labor Force  a/      Value Added per Worker
USS min        %          Mln                   USSS Mln    S
Agriculture              22702         31.4        21.0       58.3        1081       53.8
Industry and Mining      24510         33.9         7.1       19.7        3452      171.7
Services                 25178         34.7         7.8       21.7        3228      160.5
Total/Average           72390        100.0        36.0      100.0        2011      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE b/
General Governmnt (1983)           Central Government (1984)
N Mln          As S of GDP          N Nln       As % of GDP
1983         1983      1980-82      1984       1984    1980-82
Current Receipts                12328         25.3        29.1        7342      13.3      18.6
Current Expenditure             14840         30.5        19.7        7635      13.8      11.1
Current Surplus                 -2512         -5.2         9.4        -290      -0.5       7.5
Capital Expenditure              8246         16.9        26.5        2783       5.0      14.9
External Assistance (net)        2760          5.7         2.7         -16       -         0.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
WEli-o-n-alri7a5tstiianng M--PerTo2l
Money and Quasi Money                 7050    7691   9849  14390  15541  16887  19369  21601
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)   2068    3337   3439   3589   6607  10528  15825  18200
Bank Credit to Private Sector         3443   4723   5417   7191   9654  11372  12354  12942
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP        21.7    22.0   24.0   29.8   31.9   33.0   39.8
General Price Index (1975-100)      143.0   166.7  186.3  204.9  247.5  266.5  328.4  458.4
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                  15.4    16.6   11.8   10.0   20.8    7.7   23.2   39.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector        345.0    61.3    3.0    4.4   84.1   59.3   50.3   15.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector       42.8    37.2   14.7   32.8   34.3   17.8    8.6    4.8
- - Negligible.
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
a/ Derived from planning documents and refers to the number of gainfully employed (based
on 1983 distribution).
b/ Based on the Government Budget estimates, DMF data, and World Bank estimates.
May 1986



-29-                                     ANNEX  I
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYTENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       IERCNANDISE EXPORZS (198U.)
1981   1982 a/   1983 bI  1984 c/                                USS HIM          S
tNflhionrrsT ubCrude Oil                                  11566        96.8
Cocoa Products               331         2.8
Exports of Goods, nfs            18891.    12703      10890    12341      Palm Products                   7
$Wrts of Goods, nfs              24190     18333      13865    10527      Tin                            NA          NA
Others                        42        0.39
Resource Gap (defieit * -)       -S296     -5630      -2975     1314
Interest Payments (net)            262      -599       -970    -1302           Total                  11948       100.0
Ocher Factor Payments (net)       -916       -709      '355     -501       EZEAL DEBT. DECEl 31. 1985 d/
Net Transfers                     -5s.      -430       -395     -332
USS Mln
Balance on Current Account       -(515     -7388      -4696     -321
________________________                                ~~~~~~Pubilc   Debt   Including
Undisbursed               16730
Direct Foreign Investment          546       431        365      293      Non-Guaranteed
Private Debt
Net Official Borrowing             813      3040       3848      -64       Outstanding                 1081
Disbursement                     1416      3677       4865     1911
Amortization                     -603      -637      -1017    -1975      Total Outstanding
and Disbursed             14257
Other Capital (net)                156      3630       2016      192       DEBT SEtVICE RATIO FO  1995 c/
Errors and Omissions                78     -1806      -1801        -                                                _
Overall Balance                  -4922     -2093       -268      100
Public Debt Including
Undisbursed                            33.7
Reserve Moveaments (Incr. -)      4922      2093        268     -100      Non-Guaranteed
Reserve Level                     3895      1802       1534     1634        Private Debt                            2.8
Fuel and Related Material                                                 Total Outstanding
Imports                                                                   and Disbursed
of which:  Mineral Fuels         288       262        201      165      T3RDImA LENDING As oF DECEMBER 31  1985
Exports
of which: Petroleum            17401     12777       9857    11568
TBRD         IDA
EXCHANCE RATE
Outstanding and
1978   :N1.00 - US$1.57                                                    Disbursed                   1267        34.7
1979 : N1.00 - US$1.66                                                    Undisbursed                  1011         --
1980 : N1.00 - USS1.63
1981 : N1.00 - US$1.63
1982 : N1.00 - US$1.49                                                    Outstanding Including
1982 : N1.00 - USS1.38                                                     Undisbursed                 2278        34.7
1983 : N1.00 - USS1.38
1985 : 51.00 - USS1.12                                                    IBRD/IDA share of External DOD            9.1%
UBRD/IDA share of External Debt Service 2.9%
- - Negligible.   NA - Not available.
aI Provisional. bI Official Estimates.
cI  World Bank Estimates. The 1985 BOP cannot yet be completed
as the level of imports and debt data are still being reconciled
(see footnote dI below).
d/ External Debt estimates refer to medium and long-term loans,
including S1306 million of the 1984-85 rescheduled uninsured trade
arrears. The MLI data base is presently being updated by EPD. The
DOD figures at end 1985 are likely to be revised upwards. Estimates
of short-term debt range between S4.5-5.O billion. It is expected
that between S3.5-4.0 billion of this, in the form of trade arrears,
is Likely to be reconciled and rescheduled as MLT by end 1986.
e/ Ratio of MLIT debt service to exports of gcods and non-factor
services.



- 30 -
ZIN ST AtS O  "a cWoUw CTnoNs                                            ANNEX  II
A.  STATUIENT OP uM     MM  eFWtt        1aS   RNNCVR1ALa
(A  of March 31  1936
Lea or                                                                   UU Kitoo
Credit                                                           _t  thnes ev ati)eu
tuber   Tear   Darrwer   Puarnee
aty egt lae. aid two creit. fully daburmed                     743.7    35.3 fb
in:l    197:       lliera r.C Stat. all pals                    19.0               3.4
1591     1978     Nigeria    Mac. MAt. SuJh2elder Oil           30.0               0.0 ae
1397     1973    NIt         ladtrial 1hulapment                51.9               3.3
1667     1979      ipria    Agric. DMe. - Dida                  23.0                3.7
1688    1979      Nigeria    Agric. DW. - 12arm                 27.0               5.7
1679     1979      ria       Farestry                           31.0               1.4
1711     1979     Nigeiaa    Water Supply - Kahdna              92.0              52.2
1719     1979      Igeria    Ahric. & lural 2st. linac.          9.0               3.6
1786     19W0    RWA         Powr Lag                          100.0              47.3
1787     1930     Nigeria    Urba Develepuant - Bauchi          17.8               4.7
1838     19W0    Ntgera       gric. Dav. - Cpa-Nortb            23.0               17..
1834     1B       Nigarla    Apgric. Dew. -  Dti-lake           32.3               1. 2
1683     1908      lgri-a    bads                      -        7.0               17.8
1961     1931     NigeriS    Ag4rt. Dew. - ODaehi              132.8              20.8
1912     1982     Nigura    Agric. Dw. - Zone                  142.0              84.6
2029     1931     Nigeria    Tech. Asalacare - Agric.           47.0              24.5
2036     1962       isgeria    Water Supply - Anambra           67.0              42.9
205      1982     WA          Fewer - Discributian             ID0.0              33.3
2183     1982       ieria    &Eric. Dew. - Sheto               147.0              36.3
2299     1983      NMO        induatral Dewl ant               120.0             107.7
2345     19K      Nitgrte    Fertilizer luprt                  250.0              50.0
2378     193U     MCI        Smelt A *edlum Scale hndatry    41.0                 40.6
*2390     393      IWC        TeCh. Ahet. - Ce  Enginering    25.0                  23.0
2436     198t      Nieria    Agret. Dew. - Madn&               122.0              121.7
2400    19,5      Nigeria    Tecb. Asiatance                    13.0               12.2
2503     1985    NierIa    nealtb - Soate                       34.0               34.0
2528     1985     Nigeria    Water Supply - Derno               72.0               72.0
2607     3983     NgriA    Urban - In                           53.0               53.0
ee2618     1935     Nigeria    Industry - Tech. Ahet.              5.0                5.0
2620     1935     NigerIa    Urban - Lapa Solid Whate           72.0               72.0
Total                                              2 724 9      35 3  1.049.3
Of which has been repad                                          33
Tatal  uacstnding                                  2.li6       213
Amoant s.li                      1683
Of which baa been repaid    l     6i                    0.0
Total new hald by Dank & MDA                       2.365.0   29.5
TatA dndlaburuad                                                      1.049.3
S. STATECCT OF IFC n     Cmnxu
Cm Of March 31. 1988)
Fiucal                                   Type af          AMnt in uS3 hIian
Tar                   fnaes                              Lean     Equity    etal
1984. 1967.   Arm Taxcilas Ltd.    Textile  fs.    3.0             0.8       1.6
2970
198            Nigera industrial         Dew. Ftin. Co.            1.4       1.4
Devlopmet Dak Ltd.
2973           Puncue Cottonseed        VWg. Oil         1.                  I.b
Cruahing Ltd. Cruaking
1973. 1974     Nigeria Aluminum-         Alumimn         1.0       0.3        1.3
Extrulin Ltd.            Precemuing
1971           Lafiagi Suar              Stgr                      0.1       0.1
Estate
1930          NM                         Textiles        6.:       0.7       6.9
1931. 1935     IkhJa Hotel               Tourim         10.3       1.4      11.7
19D5           TIger Battery             Dry-cell       4.0         -        4.9
iarr.rl..
Total groa cs    tus entc               25.0       4.5       29.5
Lees Cancellationa. teruiue-
ciom    repaymnt. and *ee              46.7       1.6       6.3
Total eommitnt nw h ld by TFC           20.3       2.9       23.2
Undlaburned                              1.0       0.2        1.2
oyet effective.
Not yet *ained.
fa The sticus of the projects listed In Part A ls dacrbed In A separate
report or all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which ii
upoeted twice yearls and circulated to the Exeuttva Directors -
April 30 and Octeber 31.
/b Prior to axchanpe rate adjuetmenra.
Ie  Dalance tee eea2 eo be reflected In this table.



-31-                      ANNEX III
Page I of 2
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key -vents
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:     12 minths
(b)  Project Prepared by:               Government, consultants and IBRD
(c)  Identification:                    Through sector work
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                 May 1985
5e)  Negotiations:                      December 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:     November 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Loan effectiveness would be subject to:
(i) PMTA appointing a Project Coordinator satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 57); and
(ii)   NPA and NRC each establishing a local currency project
account, with an initial deposli equivalent to US$500,000
(para. 64).
(b)  Disbursement of funds for spare parts and equipment for NPA would
be subject to:
(i)   compilation by short-term consultants of a shopping list of
spare parts and equipment satisfactory to the Bank (para.
70); and
(ii) appointment of long-term consultants to the workshops
(para. 70).



-32 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Disbursement for equipment and the first phase of funds for spare
parts and equipment for NRC would be subject to:
(i)  detailed identification of the required spare parts and
equipment by experts satisfactory to the Bank (para. 70);
(ii)   appointment of long-term technical assistance to the
locomotive workshops (para. 70); and
(iii)   submission to the Bank of a satisfactorily audited balance
sheet as at December 31, 1985 (para. 70).
(d)   Disbursement of the second phase of funds for spare parts to NRC
would be subject to NRC:
(i)   attaining specified targets for locomotive availability and
utilization (Annex VIII) (para. 70);
(ii)   achieving a working ratio of 180 percent for the quarter
ending on December 31, 1987 (para. 70); and
(iii)   having provided counterpart funding equivalent to
US$1.75 million for the first phase (para. 70).
(e)   NPA and NRC would have to complete financing their shares of the
spare parts component no later than 26 months after loan
effectiveness (para. 64).



33 -                                              ANNEX IV
NIIERIA
PARASTATAL ENTPRISES  MMARY
OPERATING STATENTS
uuuuuaa.
(Naira thousnds)
NIGERIA RAILWAYS
CORPORATION(NRC)       1979/80      1980     1981     19I2 193
Revenue                      45970    45630    81114    96130    73090
lHrking apenses              92024     0779   154607   164763   173242
Net working result          -46154   -45148   -73493   -7633  -100162
2=2=     -      =c=       5=333    =3=
NIGERIA PORTS AUTHORITY
(NPAI
Operating revenues          195208   181254   289419   239940   229064
= _-   = 
Harking expenses            147396   150837   270329   316174   304396
Depreciation                 13637    2766    34976    52033    5229
Operating expenses          161033   178933   305304   368207   356686
Finance charges              39433    36778    94747    87202    53511
Non-operating income         12611    16996    10395    97913    64431
197855   198325   389656   357496   345766
Net surplus/deficit           7353   -17071  -101237   -67556  -117702
NIGERIAN AIRMAYS LTD. (NAL)
Operating revenues          IM1292   138959   228416   263422
Harking expenses            121598   140849   213211   244344
Depreciation                 16236    13667    19808    21017
Operating expenses          137834   154516   233019   265361
Finance charges               5614     8301    13812   1t196
Non-operating income          1437      600       944      1852
142011   162217   245897   275395
Net surplus/deficit         -12799   -23259   -17471   -1i973
Napt 2
12-Sep-85



NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
NRC LOCOMOTIVE PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE TARGETS
Actual Coefficient            Target to be                    Target to be
as of              achieved 18 months               achieved 30 mootha
Description of Index                              Match 1985            after Effective Date            after Effective Date
1.. Locomotive availability (Z)                       51 a/                      59                               65
2. Loco failures par loco availiable b/                0.9                        0.7                              0.6
3. Loco-km per day per loco in traffic               185                        200                              220
4.  Out-turn of workshops (POH only)
-  Ebute Metta                                    13                         20                               30
-  Enugu                                          12                         17                               25
5.  Out-turn of running sheds
(all schedules)
-  Ebute Metta                                   529                        590                              680
-  Enugu                                         367                        420                              500
a/ NRC has a total locomotive fleet of 209.  However. 36 of these should be scrapped and another 25 are not
economical to repair in present circumstances, leaving an "adjusted" fleet of 148. Availability Is
expressed as a percentage of the adjusted fleet.
b/ NRC should progressively change over to No. of failures for 100,000 km.
WAPT2
February 1986



-35-
ANNEX VI
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF NRC'S FINANCIAL OUTLOOK
1.       This Annex assesses, in very approximate terms, the conditions
under which NRC might obtain vithin say 10 years a reasonable financial
result, such as a vorking ratio of 90 (compared with a ratio of 231 in
1984). Aasume that by 1995:
(a)   NRC can increase its traffic by one-,third;
(b)   NRC's staffing level per million traffic units can be
reduced from its current level of 13 to 6, approximately
equivalent to Cameroon Railways' staffing ratio (this would
entail approximately a 40 percent reduction of NRC's
present staff);
(e)   non-wage working expenses per traffic un4t remain at their
1984 level (N 0.013) in real terms; and
(d)   rail tariffs are increased to 80Z of road tariffs.
On this basis, NRC's working result in 1995 would be:
N uLillion
(1984 prices)
Workins Expenses
Labor                                          80
Other (3,280 million t.u. x N 0.013)           43
123
Revenues
Passenger (1,623 million pass. km x
N 0.034)                            55
Freight (1,657 million ton-km x N 0.043)       71
Miscellaneous                                   5
131
Working Result                                   + 8
Working Ratio                                    94%
WAPT2
February 1986



-36-                        ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
NPA
OPERATIONAL DATA AND TARGETS
A. Traffic
1983                        1984
mill. tons    (Z)           mill. to-s   (Z)
Apapa                                9.5         51               7.1       52
Tin Can Island                       2.3         12              2.0        1S
Total  Lagos Complex (A)       11.8        63               9.1       67
River Ports (B) '                    4.1         22              2.5        18
Delta Ports (C)                      2.6         14               1.9       14
Calabar (D)                          0.2          1              0.2         1
Total (A through D)            18.7       100              13.7      100
B. Operations (Lagos Complex, 1984)
Berth occupancy rate:                      63%
Average waiting time:                      2.26 days
Productivity rates - General cargo:        6.6 ton/net gang hour
- Bagged rice:         7.7 ton/net gang hour
- Bagged fertilizer:   7.9 ton/net gang hour
C. Equipment (Lagos Apapa - September 1985)
Type of Plant          Number of Items          Availability
Forklift Truck (up to 5 Tons)   139                   26Z
Freight Lifters (10 - 15 Tons)   12                   15%
Mobile Cranes                     26                  15Z
Tractors                          21                   5X



37 -ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
D. Cargo Randling Equipm_nt Availability Targets I/
Sept. 1985       18 months         30 months
Actual          after             after
Item                           Average       Effectiveness     Effectiveness
Forklift Trucks                   26Z             40Z               60Z
(up to 5 tons capacity)
Freight Lifters                   152             401               601
(10-15 toss capacity)
Mobile Cranes                     15%             302                601
Tractors                           51             501               65Z
E. Financial Targets (Working Ratio)-/
FY           1986       1987        1988       1989       1990
Working ratio
not more than       110Z         902        85Z        802        75Z
I/ Availability is defined in percentage as number of items serviceable
out of a given fleet.
2/ Working ratio is defined in percentage as total operating expenses,
excluding depreciation and non-cash charges, divided by total
operating revenues.
WAPT2
January 1986



NI6ERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I                                                        I                 I    19S5        1    1986         11987            119 5   8        1  199
lProject elseent          Activity                       I Reuponsibility I I I 2 13 14 1 1 1 2 1 31 4    1 1213  1 4 5 1 12131  41    121 314  1
I- - - - - - - - - - -                  -- - - -- - - -    -- -- - -- -- -   I--   I   - I --   I--   I--   I--   I--   I - I --   1-   I--    I-  I --   --  --  I
I             BoardMpproval                                                             I   I   I   I   I         I        I     I   I   I1 11 1
Luan Effectiveness                        1                 1 I1                        11111'' 5 I  I   I  I1 
1NPA and NRC                                                                                           I         I    I   I    I        I 1
ITechnical Assistance    Agree Terms of                  INPA, NRC, ]ORD  I   I"I...   I   I             I   I 1      I   I   :   :   1   1   1 1: 
Reference                              I      1          i1     I   I   I            II I I I         1     1       1-          5
I                         Eeploy Initial                 IIIPA, hRC          I   I   I      I I   I'llielolis  1   1 1   11 1a     I   1 a   I  a      I I     I
Teama/ I/1                                              111 1 1 1 1 1                        1   1   5                              a 1
a                         Invite proposals for           INPA, NRC         I   I      I   I   I   11 1    1 11 1 1                11511                1    1    1
I                         longer ters assignents   1                       1111111111111   1 1 1   1                                                             a 1 
a                                                        I                 I   I II         I   I   I I   I I1I  1                 1   1   1   1       I 1   1 I
I                         Awiard contracts               INPA,  RC, IBRD  I   I   I   I   I   I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1  1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1
1                 151 11111 11 11 11  1 11 1111155
I                         Execution                      ITechnical        I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I'i                                              I  I'I'I'I "'II'''I'I'II  co53
lAssistants       I   I    I   I   I    I   I     I    I       I    I 1  1   1     I 1  1  1   1    51 
II                                                                1         1 1 1I1 1 I1 I I   I I1I11                         5   51   11515 51 1
ISpare Prts, Computer   Review tender docueents          IISRD             I    5       I   I   I   I   1  '1   1 I 5   1         1    I 5 1   1   1   I 1    .1   I
land Training Equip.      Invite bids                    INPA, NRC         I   1   1   1   1   1         I 1   mol   I   I   I   I"I1    1   1   1   1   1     I
Iward of Contract             IPA, IRC, I.RD  5I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   i   a   a   a   a   a          .a   a   a   a   a   a
I                         Delivery                       ISupplier         I   1   1        1   I   I I   I   I       13131 ***p*s,   I    I 1      1 1 1   ,   I   1
Installalion I use            IW, INRC, T.A.  I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I             I   I.1.11..1..1.5.1
at Initial team consists of :
(i) locomotive expert to identify spare  uarts requireunts in detail and prepare procurement documnts;
(il  experts to design management inforL .ion system  for IPA; and
(iii) experts to identify in detail Norkshop and spare parts and training equipunt for NPA, and prepare procurement documents.
HWT2
may 1996                                                                                                                                                             0
OC
0 H



NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
IMPLEHENTATION PLAN
I                                                           I                1    1985         1    1986         1  1987           1    1"98        1     1999        1
1Proaect element           Activity                         MResponsibility I I 1 2 1 3 1 4 I I 1 21 3 1 4 I I 1 21 3 1 4 1 1 1 21 31 41  1 12 13141
IFT                                                         I                I   I   I         I        I   I   _ I           I   I         I   I   I   I   I   I_II_II_  
IFITA                                                       I                I  I  I   I I11              I     1 11 1      1I11 I  1 11 I1
tStudles                   Agree Terms of Reference         IFNTA, relevant I   1   I   1   I I10            I   I   I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1
t                                                           Iparastatals     I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I                     I I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1
I                                                           land IBRD          1                            1    1 111111111111
Retruit technical assistants  aFITA, IBRD              I   I   I        I   I      l       l   I   I   I   I   I         :   : I      |   |
I                          and consultants                  II                                      I   I   I   I       I                       I   I      I   I  1
I                                           ~        ~       ~~I lii I   I I1t I1 1t1 11I1I I                                I     1 1I I   I I'
(a) Financial and          Execution b/                     IFINTA1 t.a.     I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I  '1 P1 '1'1              1  1    1     1   1   1   1   1 1
I    a erational                                                                                    I t
I    objectives for        Discussion of objectives         IFNTA, para-    I   I        1   1   1      I        t 1   1                    11"  1   1   II'1*'1    1  I   I 1
I    transport                                              lstatals, IBRD  I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1              I 1   1   1   1
t    parastals                                              1I                                 I   I   I   I   I          I   I   I   I       II                   
I (l Future roles          Execution                        a                a   a   I   a   a   a   a   a                                                                  w
I    of parastatals        Discuss results                 IFNTA, IBRD        1111I   I   I                             I   I   I: 1 1 1 11               1      I   I
I    including NCHC        - Phase I                        I                I   I   I   I          I I I      I     1   1                       a 1
I      IIFC                - Phase II                                             I        t   I   I           I     I             I
I                                           ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I   I     I t    I    I    t   1   1   1   1 I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1.  a 
I(c) Domestic Aviation   Execution                          IFNTA, t.a.       I   I   I                                                                           : I  I"1"'1"'i1  I
I    Policy & Future                                        Ia                         a   a                     I   I             I                1      1      1   a
I    Role of NAL           Discuss results                  IFNTA, IBRD      I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I               I III
O~ ~  ~     ~ ~~KcLo                                tI        i        1   1   1   1   t   t   a   a   tEEIEII t:               1   I   1:   I!   I   t   a
1(di Feasibility study   Execution                          IFTA  t.a.       I   I       II1
I    of  a    ulti-modal                                                     I    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I   I    I   I    I   I      I   I    I  1    1      1
I    transport system    Discuss rnults                     IFNTA, IORD       I   I   1   I       I     I   1   I  millI   1'''I''1I   I   I   I 1I   a
I                                                           I                II  I  I   1  1            I    I   I   I    I I   I    I   I    I   1,   I     1,   I
b/ This work would he ongoing, especially for enterprises like CNTC and MAL whose objectives for later years could he affected
by decisions taken fa lowing completion of other related studies.
IAPT2
Nay 1996



- 40 -
Fig                                         AINJEIX
r- ____ _.
r-----lu-mi
I,J 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ThAIU   PARAS!AILS FPJW=
NW OCAINZATIWI cum
:fe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~h  M :rd 
Hinegi   I D.eco      13ilgoeai. 
i  r  z ^ to prepro 
I tic pla- for
Director                    Director              Director                     Dir.wtor                Dimetor         Director      Diretor       Diretor of
Adinistration                  Finance           Civil Engineerlg       _        Operationa               M ecanical         amterml                      nild
_   _                                              _ _                C_C rciae            _  Blaetrical         Lima hoit                     vioi
Assietant Director         Accountn             Assiatact Directors       I  beveaue/                 Asaitit
termamel                '  lystesa    ' ~---- -                             Cost Stia                  Director
Ntnageant                                      L---                              Geal
Lusitatnt Director        t Informtion
MIapoInr planning       *  Syatm                                                                    [ r   --al_  _ 
& Davelo.ent            L    ___     J                                     5    a 40      I         r   L          I
operatio.   --
r-- - * 1 ___ -    ALsaitant                                         ._s_or a
IM. Planning & I      Directors                                                                   _    _     J
I 
*Dseel I.eot  'Ausiatmnt
Directorts
g/ Dotted bonsa  depict areas of technical assiatance or consultin  services being financed Under project.
WAr
Sept. 1965



- 42 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT COORDINATOR
IN THE FEDERAL MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND AVIATION
1. Basic Functions
(i) Overseeing the implementation of the Transport Parastatals
Project in all its aspects.
(ii) Coordinating between the executing agencies (NPA and NRC), the
project consultants, the Federal Ministry of Transport and
Aviation (FMTA) and the World Bank.
(iII) Interfacing with other Ministries of the Federal Government of
Nigeria, on all project matters, particularly in procurement-
related activities.
2.    Relationships
The Project Coordinator should:
Xi) report to the Permanent Secretary of the FMTA;
(ii) maintain diract contacts with the Chief Executives of NPA and
NRC, and through them with the Senior Management officials, who
are responsible for the project in these organizations;
(iii) maintain liaison with the Resident Representative of the World
Bank in Nigeria on project matters;
(iv) establish and maintain contact with the other Ministries and
Governmental organizations connected, either directly or
indirectly, with the project;
(v) exercise supervisory control over the project administration
unit attached to him and ensure that it maintains all necessary
records and documentation to ensure satisfactory monitoring of
project progress.
3. Specific Responsibilities
The specific functions of the Project Coordinator will be:
(i) Prepare CPM/PERT charts showing the significant activities and
the time frame in which they are to be accomplished; on the



-43 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 3
basis of these charts monitor project implementation, provide
early warning signals to the appropriate authorities in the
field, in enterprises and in Government, of potential bottle-
necks and impediments and work toward their early resolution;
(ii) Prepare a concordance statement showing the correlation between
disbursement of funds, progress of implementation and the
accrual of benefits quantified in measurable parameters and
related to the agreed targets; monitor their correlation
continually as the project advances; maintain these records
current at all times, so that the attainment of agreed perform-
ance targets can be constantly supervised and corrective
measures taken in good time, in,order to avoid surprises when
the t'ranching cross-over point is reached;
(iii) Maintain project accounts to record, in a form suitable for
audit, applications for disbursements and respective disburse-
ments by category of expenditure and by contract; to produce
therefrom at regular (three-monthly) intervals a statement of
the financial situation of the project showing amounts dis-
bursed by category and in total, applications outstanding,
estimated costs outstanding to project completion, and result-
ing shortfalls or overruns in expenditures;
(iv)  Render assistance to NPA and NRC in the application of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines;
(v) Regularly inspect project components, meet with project
officials and assist them in improving the quality and speed of
execution;
(vi) Assist consultants in quickly settling down to their tasks,
promote better understanding between them and their counter-
parts through frequent and close personal contacts; extend
Ministerial back-up to NPA and NRC for the timely resolution of
consultancy-related problems;. evaluate the effectiveness of tte
transfer of know-how and thereby rate the performance of
consultants; in short, exercise an umbrella management control
of the Technical Assistance Component of the project on behalf
of FMTA;
(vii) Prepare, in a format to be agreed with the World Bank, regular
progress reports on t'ie project, and the implementational,
financial and operational performances of NPA and NRC and
present the reports to the nominated recipients (like FMTA,
World Bank, etc.) on the due dates;
(viii) Compile, at the end of a project, a compendium of reliable
spare-parts suppliers based on their performance;
(ix) Assist the FHTA in the preparation of the Project Completion
Report.



-44 -
ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 3
4. Back-Up Facilities and Counterpart
The Project Coordinatoi vill have an office in the FMrA and
will be provided with facilities to visit the offices of the NPA, NRC
and the site of the project components. He will be assigned a local
counterpart and have a clerical cell consisting of a clerk and a
typist, who vili help him maintain files, prepare reports and handle
his correspondence.
5. Qualifications
5.1 Essential
(i) A Degree in Engineering, preferably in civil, mechanical or
electrical engineering discipline;
(ii) Experience of about five years in a Senior Managerial
position, preferably in a transport undertaking, in which
extensive repair and rehabilitation of infrastructure facil-
ities and equipment have been carried out;
(iii) About 2 years experience in Project Management or Multi-
disciplinary Management.
5.2     Desirable
(i) A degree in Business or Project Management;
(ii) Direct experience of international procurement, contracts
management and associated business practices, including letters
of credits, import licenses and, import/export regulations in
developing countries.
WAPT2
February 1986



ANNEX XII
-45 -
NIGERIA
s-:
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
SUNNARY OF PROECT COSTS
::sssu.s:mSsss         inz-
-----tm illias-            -- IlStillion--
Component                    Local Foreign   Total       Local Foreign   Total
NIGERIAN RAILNAYS CORPN.
Technical asstce            1.87    1.99    3.06        1.07    1."      3.06
Spare parts                 0.00   10.00   10.00        0.00   10.00   10.00
Coao & trq equapat          0.00    1.00    1.00        0.00    1.00    1.00
1.07   12. "    14.06      1.07   12.W"   14.06
Contanqencies
FbPsical                  0.11    0.75    0.06        0.11    0.75    0.k
Price                     0.92    2.20    3. 02       0.9  2.20    3.02
Total NRC                     2.00   15.94   17.94        2.00   15.94   17.94
NI16ERIAN PORTS AUTHORITY
Technical asstce            0.79    1.46    '.25        0.79    1.46    2.25
Spare parts                 0.00    3.50    3.50        0.00    3.50    3.50
Mishoo.coan & trq eqpt      0.00    1.50    1.50        0.00    1.50    1.50
0.79    6.46    7.25       0.79    6.46    7.25
Continen cies
Physical                  0.09    0.43    0.51        0.08    0.43    0.51
Price                     0.58    1.18    1.76        0.58    1.18    1.76
Total NPA                     1.45    8.07    9.52        1.45    8.07    9.52
FflTA
Technical asstce            d.o2    1.14    1.76        0.o2    1.14    I.76
Cmtbnoencies
Ph.sical                  0.06    0.12    0.10        0.06    0.1.' 0.18
Price                     0.52    0. 34    0.96       0.52    0.3*    0.86
Total FNTA                    1.20    1.aO    2.80        1.20    1.60    2.90
TOTAL BASE COST               2.49 :0.59   23.07          2.48   20.59   2..07
ContinoencLes
Phszcal                  0).25    1.38    1.55        0.25    1.30    1.55
Price                     1.9      ;. "    5.64       1.32    3.       5.&4
Total contingencies           :.1'    5.02    1.19        2.17    5.02    7.19
TOTAL PROJECT COST            4.e5   25.ol   30.26        4.o5   25.61   30.26
__  =     =           = =             =
Mapt&          Exchanoe rate      I WS        1.00 Natra
20-Jan-S6



- 46             ~           ANNEX XIII
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
PROCUREMENT TABLE -/
Project Element                      Procurement Method                Total
ICB        LIB            Other        Cost
- - ----USS  million----
NRC
Technical Assistance              --           --           4.73          4.73
__           --          (3.15)        (3.15)
Spare Parts                       1.00        4.20           6.86        12.06
(0.74)      (2.50)        (4.60)        (7.84)
Computer & Training Equip.        0.10        0.20          0.85          1.15
(0.10)      (0.20)        (0.85)        (1.15)
Total               1.10        4.40         12.44         17.94
(0.84)      (2.70)        (8.60)       (12.14)
KPA
Technical Assistance              --           --           3.46          3.46
--          (2 31)        (2.31)
Spare Parts                       0.40         0.80         3.03          4.23
(0.20)       (0.70)       (1.85)        (2.75)
Computer, Workshop &
Training Equip.                 -            0.60          1.23          1.83
-          (0.60)        (1.23)        (1.83)
Total               0.40        1.40          7.72          9.52
(0.20)      (1.30)        (5.39)        (6.89)
FMTA
Technical Assistance                           --           2.80          2.80
__          __          (1.87)        (1.87)
Total               1.50        5.80         22.96         30.26
(1.04)      (4.00)       (15.86)       (20.90)
a/ Note that the figures in this annex for each element include contin-
gencies whereas those in Annex XIV represent base costs, with con-
tingencies shown separately as "unallocated."
WAPT2
February 1986



-47-                            ANNEX XIV
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Bank        Percentage of Expenditures
Project Element            Loan           Financed by the Bank
US$ m
NRC
Technical Assistance          2.04        100% of foreign expenditures
or 40% of local expenditures
Spare Parts                   6.50        100% of foreign expenditures
Computers & Training
Equipment                    1.00
Unallocated                   2.60        100% of foreign expenditures
Total                    12.14
NPA
Technical Assistance          1.50        100% of foreign expenditures
or 40% of local expenditures
Spare Parts                   2.28        100% of foreign expenditures
Computers, Workshop &
Training Equipment          1.50        100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                   1.61
Total                     6.89
FMTA
Technical Assistance          1.17        100% of foreign expenditures
or 40% of local expenditures
Unallocated                   0.70
Total               1.87
Total             20.90
WAPT2
February 1986



- 48 -                         ANNEX XV
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT PARASTATALS PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
WAIC Doc. No.
A. Reports and Background Information on
Transport Parastatals
Federal Government of Nigeria, Report of the                   Ref. Doc. 31965
Presidential Commission on Parastatals,
Lagos, October 1981.
Federal Government of Nigeria, Views of the Government         Ref. Doc. 31966
of the Federation on the Report of the Presidential
Coummission on Parastatals, Lagos, 1982.
Hassachussetts Institute of Technolog;', Operations               224.828
Plan for Apapa Port, February, 1978.
Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Digest of Port Statistics         224.829
(monthly).
_  Manpower Statistics as at 30 June, 1984.              224.830
9 Organization Structure following reorganization        224.831
of August 1984.
, Port Performance Indicators for July -                 224.832
December 1983.
, Port Traffic, 1980-1984                                224.833
Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Report of the Committee    221.160(A)
on Capital Restructuring and the Revenue Implications,
August 1983
_, Management Progress Report, July-September, 1984        223.040
, Organization and Staffing of NRC, 1985'                224.834
Suimmary of Statistics, 1981-1984                       224.835
World Bank, Port Sector Study, March 1983                         BR 4143



-49 -                          ANNE XXV
Page 2 of 3
World Bank, Rail Sector Study, June 1983                         BR 4428
B. Reports and Information Related to the Project
NPA, Audit Master Program (Internal Audit)                             223.041
, Construction Plans for Tin Can Island Training Centre, Lagos    224.836
, Organizational Chart of the Training Section                      224.837
, Scheme for Career Development                                     224.838
, Technical Training Centre, Apapa:  Request for Equipment,         224.839
Tools and Teaching Aids
, Tin Can Island Port Training Centre:  Existing and                224.840
Requested Tcaining Equipment
, Training and Management Developmenlt Department:                  224.841
Training Programme. 1985
, The Mechanical Engineering Function of NPA                        224.842
, Mechanical Engineering Department:  Inventory of Personnel        224.843
at all Ports, May 1985
, Inventory of Cargo Handling Plant and Equipment (All Ports)       224.803
, Plant Availability (All Ports)                                    224.804
, Maintenance Program for Short-Term Repairs: Spare Parts           224.805
Requirements
, Schedule of NPA Vessels' Equipment                                224.844
, Central Stores Department: Annual Report, 1984                    224.845
NRC, General Accounts Progress Report as at 28 February 1985           224.846
, Guidelines -n the Decentralization of NRC's Accounting            223.039
System, March 1983
, Priority Requirements of the Civil Engineering Department,        224.847
May 1985
C. World Bank Working Papers on the Project
Improving Computer Utilization in NPA and NRC                        Filed corr.
(report by Mrs. Bartlett), March 1985                           April 17/85
Locomotive Spare Parts and Workshops                                   224.848



- 50-                          ANNEX XV
Page 3 of 3
Specification for a No-break Power Supply System for NRC's              224.849
Computer Departuent
Technical Training in NaC (report by M. Poultney, consultant),   221 160(B)
June 1984
Assessment of Budget for Spare Parts for NPA                         Filed corr.
Aug. 27/85
Tentative List of Equipment to be procured for NPA's Apapa            224.850
Mechanical Workshop and Dockyards
Terms of Rieference for Technical Assistance to NPA:                  224.851
(a) Preliminary Services by Workshop and Training Experts
(b) Longer Term Services by Workshop Experts
(c) Manpower Planning and Development
(d) Management Information Systems
Ce) Rationalization of Data Processing Activities
(f) Review of Dredging Program
Terms of Referenca for Technical Assistance to NRC:                   224.852
(a) Woreshop Experts
(b) Materials Management Expert
(c) Accounting Assistance
(d) Management Information Systems
(e) Revenue/Cost Studies
gf) Manpower Planning and Development
Terms of Reference for Studies for Federal Ministry of Transport        N/A
and Aviation
(a) National Freight Company
(b) National Cargo Handling Company
(c) Domestic Aviation Policy
(d) Economic Role of River Transport and the Role of
The Central Water Transport Compary
(e) Port Clearance Procedures
(f) Shipping Policy
(g) Project Coordination
Training Component for NPA (report by L. Swahn)                     Filed corr.
Dec. 20/82
WAPT2
February 1986



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                 :       .         S UJ. :
.1   /     -                                                Kohl..Klmol
.0L Al
/                   *rnmenNahhl                                            l uo s.wq 
-r/                        (             jug.o ' 
12  \icambiiDonGAbe    F
B ElZN  I NwJ 
I   4                                                0NM-
Ovo                                         Ko-  -  <   < ; --  K
(     p                             -. .*O RI N                      j     }i      )        /X e  - o   Na
Ia.i  ,I I                                                                 Te l1   jena10~\f
lc   9                     rWAdEMb                             ?>   t t         |(noo
UbioP ;     hJJ4 At      0
r                                          \ ~~~~~~~~~~~IB E NIN CIT   
AA F R I C A                                     Es       33                          gh   (g (
I  .                                '    }f 4>    re        . vOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERRI L J>i
'_--.,zNIGERIA   ArrA:J7X1-~~~~~~~~    Fowcodos                  t           >       (
_.~NIGERIA            ArAI0 .                                                tk sc AA
LAGOS~~~~~~~~~~~~O
\   ' ,   S* #- Pe d,,_-~-   '                               1'w            ,
AFRICA                     Eicra,.a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
=      E:=                =                      AB   C t 
=::



IBRD 14702 R
1FJA4E 1=
N I G E R                                                                    ,,<                                      AD
XJ'~~~~~~~~                                                                    *  CAMERO.ON
t   5    B J  cr4{   Boe r}                                  / 1              , rrv c A M E R O ON
fic _e  _            i.9                                                           ;     |u
Azare~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
BOKW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~MD-ODE  E
>~~~~~ /                                                                            i  C HA 
f           BAt                                      r      _-              b       OCm
I    f                                                                              (MEDIUM-RANGEORETj
a ,>t   >  j                               TEKUINAL         MNOER A0R
E  u                                              Jr,_, ~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N2~     IGERI
IRhofig                                                                     N~~~~ FDEALTATINSCPORTAL YTE
rr                                                                                 0JOS        STATE APITAL
CAM EROON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ThMNLTA ES
t   /   !       i                      ,*            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFF-SHORE
_ 6 _ ~~~~~~~~Boina                                                             A        0    4    HORE
-KrtbroA=t   ,   A   E             .    J                         s        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRMORr;:
Une 4.av           Ii.r                     -                                           INTERNATIONAL
<                                  >    XG6mb)                                )              V~~~~~  IIOE-ElODIE[I JET
f       - t_-   *                               +              lU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MsEDIUPARANGE JETI
j;       N          bS                                   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  TURBO-PROP AkIRCRAFT
-   /                                                           ;            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIPSTPIP5i fIMINOR AIRPOR-S1
j X                                                                                           TIUINK ROADS '-A'j
I RAILROAS
3*                                         I?              _                             _ -~ PlVERS
tr   )                                                           @       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   C AM (R O ON                                                                      Jo5   STATE CAPITAL
] |   \                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
(.}   )_\                                                     _     ._   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOtUNDARIES
n~~                                                       ~        ~~        ~        ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ o   wo  200  300
}\ gt                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K ILOMIETERS
SE                                             ~      ~       ~~      ~      ~~~      ~      ~~ ~ ~~~~0 50  100  150  200
X = - - - k                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M I LES






